ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e68	The representatives of Inbjørg Vossken, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen and Eirik Sivertsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Margunn Ebbesen, Siri A. Meling and Janne Sjelmo Nordås on leave from 4 March to 6 March, all to take part in the mission of the delegation of Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation to Bodø and Svalbard from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on sick leave for the representative Sivert Haugen Bjørnstad from 4 March until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the Nordic counties: Jonny Finstad and Willfred NordlundFor the Rogaland counties: Sissel Knutsen HegdalFor the South Trondelag counties: Lill Harriet Sandaune
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e126	Jonny Finstad, Willfred Nordlund, Sissel Knutsen Hegdal and Lill Harriet Sandaune are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e134	The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e137	I am delighted to make proposals to set up a new national institution for human rights, the organisation of the Grand Duchy and linked to the Ombudsman for the administration, the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e142	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e145	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on the immediate cessation of shipments of long-term asylum children pending new legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e150	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will remember that the Storting Hall app is now installed on the representatives' iPads, and that everyone should have received information about this. As of week 12, there will no longer be any distribution of case papers at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber, but paper documents will still be available on the counters outside the Chamber for those who want to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e166	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e182	I brought the night watch from Stavanger today, timely enough in view of this interpellation. It was a pleasant trip, although I have to say – perhaps not so much for Stavanger, but – that the night and night offer from both Bergen and Trondheim is really quite indicative of the railway situation in the country: that we are still using night and on distances 500 km long, which, initially, by modern railway, should take 2.5-4 hours. But more serious is that on the way to the big cities in Norway, the cars stand bumper against the bumper during the rush. There are increasing numbers of people going to and from work, and people have to be able to do their daily tasks without too much time at stake. There is a strong political consensus that growth in traffic must be taken by means of collective traffic solutions. It's possible. In close cooperation with local authorities, both state and municipality, the state has managed to achieve just that, both in Oslo and in Trondheim. These are positive signals from the railway. After purchasing new trains and rehabilitating the timetable, the NSB may report an annual increase in passenger numbers of more than 7 pst. two years in a row. This is positive. But there's a lot of trains and a lot of fuss about many departures. Rail freight is in crisis, with decreases in the volume of goods from 2008 until now. The need to increase capacity is great. Norway needs faster and more targeted deployment than the one we have seen in recent years. Then we have to organise the railway differently from today. Railway development is the very basis for good local development, in order to address the transport problems and challenges we face around the major cities, especially in the east, but also in the Jären and Trundelag. Railways can also play a greater role around Bergen. A railway investment must be the first step in a much larger project, which is about how we connect cities in Norway more closely, and how we connect cities in Scandinavia much more closely, with a modern railway. Then we just have to look at the organization. We need a completely different system thinking about how we plan and operate the Norwegian railway. Today, it is often the case that the projects are put in place before you really have decided what route offer the projects should be for. We need to turn this around, so that we get a unified organisation responsible for long-term planning, responsible for route provision and responsible for obtaining tenders to put this route offer in place. A few months ago, the head of the NSB was out with new ideas on how to better organise Norwegian railways. The left agrees with the outline presented. We need more growth. To do that, we need more competition. It has been proposed to bring together large parts of the NSB and the Railway Agency in a new limited liability company, under the Ministry of Transport, which will be responsible for the long-term planning and development of the railway. This unit, which has been given the work title ‘Norwegian Railway AS’ in the proposal, must be able to finance and implement larger projects efficiently. Following the proposal, the company will have the right to dispose of all railway properties that are currently shared between the NSB and the Railway Agency and to ensure that stations and surrounding railway areas are exploited in a holistic way – in urban development and in the development of collective travel services. When the time has come to tender the train running itself, Norwegian Railway AS will be responsible for the execution of the tender. In addition, it will be the customer's face outwards. This is a parallel to what you've had in the bus world for a long time, for example. Routes, in the region it is now in – in Oslo and Akershus – are responsible for the tendering process and have overall responsibility for the collective services. Norwegian Railway AS must submit plans for the most priority projects, but the overall decisions must remain at Stortinget. It is we, as elected representatives, who still have to be responsible for the main priorities, but we need a system, a company with overall responsibility, so that the elected level has less reason to go into detail planning, as it is to a large extent today. We need an overall planning that has a longer time horizon than the 10-year horizon that lies in the national transport plan. Norway is a part of the EU in terms of railway policy. The EU is currently working on a new rail legislation, the so-called EU rail package IV. It has as its primary objective the completion of the internal market of the EU for the rail sector. The European Commission has proposed amendments such as: implies that the use of competition in the award of public service contracts in the field of rail passenger transport becomes compulsory, so-called ‘track’ competition. From the left we are clear that competition is nothing to be concerned about. It strengthens suppliers and usually provides more efficient use of labour and equipment. However, successful competition requires reasonable framework conditions. A good and stable infrastructure must be in place and there must be clarity as to who is responsible for the different parts of the complex value chain of the railway. On the left, we want a new organisation of the Norwegian railway system to get a clearer and better overall planning, to get a clearer and better priority and to get a better offer to the traveller. The situation itself, with a rail service that, in the European context, can best be described as mediocre, requires us to implement reforms. However, due to the change we will have to deal with – within the rail package IV – there is also a need to prepare for a new situation and organise Norwegian railways based on it. Heavy infrastructure takes time to expand. What we need, however, is an organisation that enables us to exploit the potential of the existing network as efficiently and as effectively as possible, while at the same time being able to plan for the major projects, which will take time to implement. I am excited about how the Minister for Transport sees that we are going to organise Norwegian railways to improve the offer in the short term, but also with large-scale projects in the longer term, and how he sees that we are going to prepare Norwegian railways for the situation that comes with a new railway directive. The content of the Directive and its implications for the Norwegian railway system and its organisation are something that the Left wishes to welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e214	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for a discussion on a very important theme, a theme where the government has great ambitions, which is important for our total commitment to transport. We have ambitions to raise investment in the infrastructure and in the maintenance of the infrastructure. We believe that rail is particularly important in terms of commuter traffic – especially in and out of the larger cities – and long-distance freight transport. Here the railway has an advantage of getting a lot of people and a lot of goods on relatively small areas. That's an advantage. As the interpellant said, infrastructure investment here is a big boost. It takes time not least to build new railway tracks. It sees one of the plans around the intercity triangle -- which we've now made into a square thing, by including Ringerike. These are things that take many, many years. That is why it is important that we be able to maintain the decisions taken in relation to intercity and that one not once it has been adopted begins to water down the decisions by wanting to do a lot on all the other sections at the same time. We have to choose where to focus to get results quickly and well. An important starting point for the debate is the rail package from the EU. So let me first say a few words about it. It has not been adopted, it is for treatment, and much indicates that changes will be made along the way in the EU process. Therefore, we have to deal with the slightly overall preliminary and not take the version that is now the one that Norway has to deal with, eventually. Last January, the European Commission presented the railway package IV, which is a package of legislative changes that together facilitate the completion of the internal market in rail. To date, national passenger transport services have been exempted in terms of both track and track competition. The EU proposals now involve both free access for any operator in the national passenger transport market, i.e. on-track competition, and the obligation for public authorities to make use of tendering procedures for public service compensation through contracts, i.e. on-track. The fourth rail package of the EU could require major changes in the current organisation of the Norwegian rail sector because there are some things in Norway that are well regulated but on which one in the EU system wants to compete. It's part of the things we're very much in agreement with, for example. in the case of competition, but there are also some aspects of the package in which we disagree, such as: the State must not be able to own both the Railway Agency and the NSB. There will be something we would disagree with. Last week, 26 February, the European Parliament delivered its opinion on the rail package IV, and there are a number of adjustments to the Commission's proposal. The European Parliament wants integrated companies to have considerable flexibility in handling and distinguishing between infrastructure and train operation, they want Member States to continue to be able to give direct award of service contracts as long as they can justify why, and there is still a lot of work and discussions to be done. Therefore, no final decision will be taken until 2015, since the Council has still not completed the technical pillar and has not started dealing with competition policy issues. There are still some things left, but it is clearly in the direction of opening up more competition. In Norway, one from 1996 has had two different legal entities with regard to train operators and infrastructure managers, i.e. the NSB and the Railway Agency. If the Commission’s proposals are adopted and implemented through the EEA Agreement, this will mean that the Ministry of Transport cannot both be the owner of and manage both the Railway Agency and the NSB. In addition, the NSB will lose its exclusive right to operate national rail passenger services on our network, so it will be a system change. Let me stress that there is already free competition on the railways in terms of freight in Norway and in terms of international passenger traffic, so in some areas we have liberalised ourselves a long time ago. If the national passenger transport market is also open to competition, the need for competition to be exercised on equal and non-discriminatory terms will be further strengthened. So we have taken this into account in terms of freight transport, but not to a great extent in terms of passenger transport. There we will have to make some changes to the organization. I'm really very positive about that, and it's in the government platform. I believe and the government believes that competition on and about the track can contribute to more efficient operation, lower purchase prices and increased customer focus. So that means that the state can potentially save money on this, while the travellers get a better service. I think it is very important to organise competition in a good way, because it gives a boost to consumers. Railway package IV is consistent with government policy, with increased competitive operation in many areas. We expressed in our government platform that we want to open up competition in rail transport. Our reform work has already begun. The overall objective of the reform is to ensure that Norwegian railways have clear objectives and to facilitate the achievement of the objectives through the most efficient use of resources through organisation, funding and governance. So we have to make a lot of things work together here. Creating a comprehensive and effective management system with a clear and appropriate funding and incentive structure is central to our work. So we're going to review both the Railway Agency and the NSB AS to find better structures and better work divisions. It is important that we have an incentive to ensure efficient operation in the rail market. The need for long-term thinking about future route arrangements and far greater customer orientation must characterise the sector. I fully agree with the inter-pellant. He points out that sometimes it seems that the investment is made on the basis of a geographical assessment, and not on the basis of what actually provides a better route offer overall for the travellers. The close link between infrastructure and material, strategic scheduling and development of train provision needs to be better coordinated. In addition, we need to develop rail services and collective services better. The debate we are seeing in the Oslo area, as we see in the Rogalands area, where local collective societies – Routes in the Oslo area, Columbus in Stavanger – want closer cooperation to get the timetables to correspond. Should a few more to choose collectively, one must make sure that one does not stand on the platform and wait for a train or standing in a bus shed and wait for the bus, but that things are planned, that things are on the route, that there is comfort on board, that the prices are acceptable, and that one can plan the day after that. It can't be enough today. We have set up a specialist group in the Ministry of Transport that is now running this reform project. This will be reflected in a big-mouth message for the autumn in, for example: how the railway sector should be organised. In this big message, we will also touch on other reform work we are working on, because the way in which we organise road construction is also important to take into account. We want to look at the possibility of a railway investment company in order to be able to plan routes more comprehensively. We also consider the use of OPS in the case of individual sections in order to accelerate the investment there. In the course of this work, it is of course very important that the actors in the sector, both local municipalities, county councils and people who work in the railway sector, both within freight, within passenger transport, professional mobility, etc., are told and heard. We aim not only to present some clear solutions in our big message where we are very sure about what things should be like, but also to present some alternative models where there are several ways to achieve the goal, just to ensure that the Storting has a relevant discussion and is involved in and influences this work. In this way, the NSB’s submitted model is one interesting solution to show how one can distribute the tasks between the NSB and the railway works in another way. It is important that we have one clear player in infrastructure, and that we have others competing to provide services. It is then important that the NSB is also organised in such a way that they do not have a lot of management tasks that prevent them from being an effective competitor, but that they can actually be a streamlined enterprise that can win many tasks in the future. What has happened on the Gjøvik track is an example of competition that works. So there is a passenger service, one that has reduced the cost of the state, one that has a high level of regularity, even if it is interrupted there too – that is absolutely an example of follow-up. I look forward to the conclusions we get in our reform work, and the results we will reap from better rail services for both freight and passenger transport in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e244	I would like to thank you for a very interesting contribution from the Minister for Transport. I would also like to stress from the Left that competition is not an end in itself, but in the situation we are now in, it is a necessary and important tool for getting a better offer into Norwegian railway. You also need an organisation where you can get the overall responsibility for planning into a company that is also responsible for the whole system and offer as such. So the comparison with Ruter is a good example. That's where this worked, and we also have to look at when we're building structures nationally. It is important to note that the railway directive IV is still being dealt with, because it is competitive, it can be done in a very good way, and it can be implemented in a less good way. Some of the background to the fact that I have now travelled this interpellation is precisely to get the discussion going, so that in Norway we can also start work on reorganising the Norwegian railway sector to prepare us for a new situation, and also to help influence the decision-making processes that are currently underway. I believe it is important that even if you have competition, the customer focus must be the most important thing. That is, for the traveller, for the person standing on the platform, the offer should be equally independent of who is driving the train. It is important that you have simple ticketing systems, that it appears to be a coherently larger system, as we do when it comes to bus services. There are many different bus companies that compete for driving, but for the traveller it appears as one single system. So we should also try to have it nationally. I am very pleased that the Council of State has a specialist group who is now looking at this, and who will report to the autumn. I believe that when we are going to implement a change, the time perspective should be something you can imagine within a two-year period. There's no reason it needs to take longer. So, of course, you can never organise yourself away from the will to make big, heavy investments that are necessary to lift the Norwegian railway. Looking at organisation and competition is only an instrument. It requires great will over a long period of time to lift the Norwegian railway. We need that, as it was pointed out, in the intercity bet, but at the same time intercity must be the first step for what is a major railway effort between the big cities of Scandinavia. It is particularly important to have a Scandinavian perspective on planning to strengthen freight traffic in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e255	I share a lot of the views that come from the interpellant. Let me first say that I agree that in the case of competition, there should not be competition for the part of the competition itself, but for the results one gets from it. We should phase into competition in those areas of the railway where it is natural. The current reform project assesses which parts of the market this is, where appropriate and where it is necessary to have better competition in order to achieve a well-functioning market. Then we have to look at the operation and maintenance of infrastructure and the maintenance of train equipment, and how to increase competitiveness in the freight market and on train operations. I think many of the things I mentioned there are well suited for more competition. We have to phase it into packages that make sense. Some of the things we work with in addition to what I have mentioned now are, among other things. on competition in the operation of freight terminals. Work is being done, a little independent of this reform, to improve the operation and structure of freight terminals. We have launched a KVU for a freight terminal in Bergen, to get it more appropriately located. It will be important also for the railway. We are now looking at a concrete location of a freight terminal in Trondheim, we are looking at the organisation in general and at how many actors we need to operate to get the competition in place there. It is important to reduce unit costs in order to ensure fair treatment of all actors involved in freight transport, so that we stimulate more actors, not fewer. So there's some problems that might be hard to put into an open market. It is then important that we have good incentive systems between actors, so that one contributes to performance focus and efficient resource use. It's unfortunate, for example. if the infrastructure manager has no costs if the infrastructure fails and all those providing passenger transport remain. In today's picture, it will be the NSB that gets all the shutting down and all the costs, while it is the Railway Agency that is really responsible. Then one should also make sure that the railway works notice it in another way if they do not deliver what they should. On Thursday, I'm going to Brussels to meet the European Commission. One of the themes I'm going to deal with there is the railway package. I believe it is important that Norway is early in coming and trying to influence the results of the work that is taking place, not just sitting and accepting the packages and adopting them in the Stortinge after they have been adopted in the EU system. That's why there's a meeting I'm looking forward to very much. Then it's also quite right that we have to think about something in the long run between the big cities. This is why we have started a working group to look at cross-border traffic between Norway and Sweden. It is strange that there has not been such a working group already in the case of the southern border crossings, but now we are in the process. But that's how we first have to get to Halden before we start thinking about how we're going to get across the border. That's why we have these priorities in the right order.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e270	I would first like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for a full and good answer. Right is for competition, also for the railway, but it is, as was said earlier, an instrument and not an objective in itself. As the Council of State had in mind, today we have competition both in goods and in international passenger traffic, and we have also put off the Gjøvik track, and the experience with it has been good. It is therefore signaled in the government statement that you want to go ahead with this. But as the Council of State was in it, it has to do some organizational work to get this done. The railway is the backbone of public transport in and out of the big cities. However, the main challenge is to provide sufficient capacity, increased frequency and increased regularity. After many years of neglect, a common understanding has now been reached that rail has a central role to play in public transport. And if we're going to move on, we're going to have to deal with both the big maintenance run and the lack of material that's been, and still will be, a big challenge. More money has been allocated, but a new organization is necessary. The work that is now in progress will be exciting to follow. We need a powerful organization to get to the stakes on the railways that we all want. Tenders are a well-known method of public transport in general. In the case of bus services, it is a well-functioning system. In this area, in Oslo and Akershus, it helps us to have a bus park that meets the requirements of emissions, universal design and efficiency. The condition for this is that there is a well-functioning market with a sufficient number of providers. It's a special rail challenge. We know it so far again in Oslo and Akershus, also in terms of ‘purchasing’ the services for the rail way, which is a public monopoly, where Oslo Municipality is the owner. Router must then, as an administrative company, ‘negotiate’ in a monopoly on behalf of Oslo and Akershus. Buying services in a public monopoly, both in terms of T-course and traction, requires a sense of what is the right price. If competition is to work, it must be a form of competition, otherwise there must be at least a good basis for comparing prices with other countries and places of transport. I think that's why it's one of the first things you have to bet on when you get a new organization, that you actually get an organization and a system that makes it interesting for other rail transporters. We have some people: we have the T-Bahn, we have the T-Bahn, we have the Flytrain, and we have the NSB, both the Gjøvik Railway and the normal path. So there are environments here. It's just getting them out, so they can be in the competition that comes. If we are to succeed in increasing competition on the tracks, conditions need to be created in a way that makes it interesting for more – both national and international environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e285	The view of the Christian People's Party on the railways and the situation of the NSB for the future is clear and clear. We believe that the monopoly should be abolished. More than NSB and the Fly train should be able to carry passengers, and I have nothing against the State Railways, the Fly train or other passenger transport on the Norwegian railway network. There has been a demand from the proposal contained in the rail package IV, which we believe should contribute to both better management and lower costs in the railway sector. The Christian People's Party therefore welcomes the EU railway package. However, the EU is not the main reason why Norwegian railways are now facing significant reorganisation. It is a political majority here on the Stortinget that will now renew the railway sector, among other things. by facilitating increased competition on the track. This development is pressing forward, and on the part of the Christian People's Party, increased competition in this area is highly desirable, because we believe that this will be good for the offer we can give our customers. This is not a new policy, but it is only now – with the new political majority and with an offensive state council – that we can achieve a significant renewal of the railways, as the Christian People's Party wants. The Gjøvik Railway is Norway’s only competitive route, and we see what has happened: a marked increase in the number of passengers and customer satisfaction since the start in 2006. The evaluation report of the Transport Economic Institute from 2010 showed good results in terms of better train provision and significantly lower operating costs, without having negative effects on employee pay and working conditions, and we should note that. The Christian People's Party wishes and has repeatedly put forward proposals for the further development of rail passenger transport through the outsourcing of competition. Although no one believes that this market will be large, we still believe that through this grip we will get more and better train services for passengers. But still, of course, it will be the Norwegian state, through its own company organization, which must have ownership of the infrastructure itself. Then I think we should listen to the Swedish “NSB Chief” – the person who leads the State Railways – who has said that in general it is good for the railways and for customers with competition. That's what we're going to listen to, even when we look at customer satisfaction with the Swedish railway company, which is actually up to 98 pst. Of course, it's not just the organization. It is clear that this also has something to do with the infrastructure effort. But at the same time it gives an important signal that we're going to notice. And just as the competitive outsourcing of freight has worked well, we think it should be possible to deliver more and better passenger train services through this conversion. We look forward to establishing a separate railway company in the same way that it is done and planned by road. In addition, it must also be possible to make use of OPS for rail in the same way as for road, as the Council of State did. From the Christian People's Party we're busy getting a rigging around ownership that allows the NSB to also be an actor that can compete in the same line with other companies. We think it's quite possible to get through a proper rigging. We've been talking about railway renewal for eight years. Now is the time for action!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e300	I often think there is a lack of perspective in such debates as this, and that is the perspective of travellers. For the whole purpose of what we're doing, and the changes we're making, we have to get a better rail service. How to get a better railway? How do you get more passengers? How to get more goods on the railway? I am not opposed to making changes, nor in the railway sector. In fact, in the major reorganisation of the rail sector in 1996, I was in the middle of what was political adviser in the Ministry of Transport. I think it was right to split up the NSB into the new NSB and the railway station. But we also have to admit that what we have done has not been painless either. A number of companies and entities have been established. Once upon a time, everything was NSB. One management, one chief, one board had the overall, total responsibility. Now we have: NSB, NSB Tenders, Railways, Railways, Railways, Airways, Rome Eiendom, CargoNet, Cargolink, Nettbuss and Mantena, and I think there are even more companies under the NSB and the Railways. It goes without saying that it is difficult to have a comprehensive overview when the railway business is so fragmented. So all organisational models have advantages, and all organisational models have disadvantages. And then we have to ask ourselves the question: what is the best model to organise the railway after to get better rail traffic? I have the impression that, in the debate now on the fourth rail package of the European Union, very many people have an ideological approach to the issue, where they want to be competitive and privatised for ideological reasons and less because they think it serves the rail service. One example I might mention is the conditions surrounding Norway’s railway stations. Who is responsible for the construction of entrance parking spaces? The area is undervalued in Norwegian transport context and the responsibility is powdered. The NSB is not responsible. They are responsible for driving trains. Rome Property is not responsible. They are responsible for property development. The railway works are responsible for the railway and the infrastructure. The air train is responsible for carrying passengers to and from the Gardermoen – dot. The state road service builds entrance parking spaces, but perhaps not exactly where needed at the railway stations. Do the municipalities have responsibility? Do the county councils have responsibility? And what about the county administrative companies and the traffic companies and bus companies, which hopefully correspond with the train? No one has the overall responsibility, and that is one of the reasons why access parking spaces have not been sufficiently developed. It is a disadvantage to organise in different units and companies. So I would say that, in my opinion, the fourth railway package in the European Union is not a proper step. It contains elements that are absolutely positive, but I think it's stupid if we get in the situation that we have to put off rail traffic throughout Norway. Will there be a better route offer on the Nordlandsbahn – which has a relatively modest passenger base, let us admit it – by putting rail traffic out of competition? Many are sceptical about the EU railway package – not just in Norway, but in the EU. After all, the Council of State was involved in the proceedings of the European Parliament last week, and the European Parliament actually voted against the Commission's proposal. They did not agree that all rail traffic should be put out of competition. They considered that national railway monopolies should be able to continue with certain modifications. And this is an understandable decision for those of us who have followed this debate for a longer time. There is great resistance in the EU Member States to the content of the fourth rail package. So it also belongs to the situation, as the system is in the EU, that this matter is not settled. Now there will be negotiations between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, and then we will see what this involves. It's happened very well with the railway in the last few years. There are many more trains, a much better route offer and many more passengers. Freight traffic has shown positive growth over several years, but unfortunately it has declined recently. We have to keep going, so that we get more passengers and more freight traffic, and then we have to make the organizational changes that are right for it, and put away the ideological superstructures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e315	In particular, the justification provided by the European Commission encourages international rail companies to have access to the national rail market in all countries – that is not the reason why customers should receive a better offer. There is no experience based on the claim that the best public transport services exist where direct award of contracts is prohibited. On the contrary, public transport on rail in Switzerland, operated by an integrated state-owned company, is considered to be one of the best in Europe. We already know that competitive outsourcing costs. A report by EPSU, The European Federation of Public Service Unions, in May 2012, estimates that the cost of the procurement process and follow-up during the contract period amounts to 10 p.m. of the contract sum. The administrative costs of the supplier will then be added. The savings for society in the tendering process must therefore also be taken as a starting point when considering how to address them. A 2011 survey carried out by the European Commission indicated that only the costs of EU bureaucracy in Norway through the tendering process are inconceivable 16 billion. kr. In Sweden, from 2010 there have been tenders on all eligible lines. Splitting the railway has led to communication problems for which travellers have had to pay, especially in the form of cancelled trains and waiting time between exchanges. As an example, the following story of how wrong it can be when no one has the overall responsibility: In the winter of 2011, the traffic company finally had to call the Railway Museum in Gävle to borrow a retired snow plough to clean up the snow chaos, after none of the four operators competing for maintenance contracts on the railway in Sweden would take responsibility once they had broken their equipment. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State says that assessments of responsibilities should be taken into account. The railway is a central part of the infrastructure of a country. It is therefore obvious to the Centre that it is both important and natural for the sector to be governed by national priorities and political choices, including traffic, or parts thereof, to be put out of competition. The European Commission’s desire for competition and tenders is very poor for a long-term country such as Norway, with transport needs other than a more centralised country. Finally, I must express great scepticism as to whether competition will solve the challenges we see in Norwegian railway operations. Today we have competition for goods, and we see that progress is going wrong. I am also afraid that the same should apply to the competitive outsourcing of passenger services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e328	I would like to begin by thanking the interpellant for addressing an important topic, and the Council of State for its response. We're the world's best country, mostly, but as far as rail is concerned, we're well below par. It is both a little clothing, very little effective and painfully unprofitable. I have with the background in my post four challenges to the Council of State, formulated in some questions. Firstly, if we look at the challenges for Norwegian railways, they are in line. Investments in the infrastructure are carried out without clearly described transport needs, there is a lack of connection between infrastructure development and material strategy, and there are unclear responsibilities between the Railway Agency and the NSB. There are unclear boundaries between policy, management and business in the sector, and there are unclear ownership relationships between the Ministry of Transport as both owner, purchaser and regulator in the sector. Annual appropriations control investments in the infrastructure. Furthermore, the Railway Agency is a body with unclear mandates, little autonomy and no performance targets. There is a lack of overall planning of urban and local development in the railway sector, there is disagreement about ownership of stations and terminals, and the Railway Agency has, among other things, no economic incentives to develop property. My first challenge to the Council of State is: What concrete strategies have the Council of State planned to address these challenges, and when can we expect the necessary action to be taken? Norway’s population will increase by about 25%. 1 million over the next 16 years. The metropolitan regions of South Norway are estimated to grow by 40 pst. towards 2040. There must therefore be an integrated approach if we are to be able to cope with the large population growth we are facing. The questions have to be, how are these people going to get to and from work in rush hour? Where are they going to live? Where are they going? What route offer do we need in 2030 to meet the need? Then we have to build the railway and buy trains, so that we can actually run the planned timetable. It appears to be a banal logic, but the fact is that Norway currently has a railway that has entered into a regional distribution game, where development has been decided before the need has been clarified. The Council of State said something about this initially, but my second question is: does the Council of State intend to continue this pattern of regional distribution games? If so, what new tactics can we expect? Railway policy is part of the EU and, as the Council of State said, work is currently under way in the EU on new rail legislation, the so-called EU rail package IV. It has as its primary objective the completion of the internal market of the EU for the rail sector. The European Commission has proposed amendments such as: implies the compulsory use of competition in the award of public service contracts in the field of rail passenger transport, so-called on-track competition. We in the Left think competition is mostly good. It strengthens suppliers, and it usually provides more efficient use of labour and equipment, but successful competition requires reasonable framework conditions. There must be good and stable infrastructure in place, and there must be clarity in who is responsible for the different parts of the complex value chain railway. The left provides its support to the head of the NSB, who a few months ago presented a outline of what the railway sector should look like at a time of growth and competition. When the time has come to tender the train running itself, the Norwegian railway will be responsible for the execution of the tender. The Norwegian railway system is intended to propose the construction of the most socially profitable projects, but the overall decisions still have to lie with the politicians. But we politicians should abandon the detailed planning we've been running on the railways. We have to manage according to general objectives – that people have to have the best possible collective offer. The third challenge for the Council of State will be: When will the Council of State do what is necessary to follow up what the Left agrees with the NSB in? It must also be said that there are several things going in the right direction. The NSB, as interpellant Elvestuen mentioned, has experienced a strong passenger growth – of 7 pst. – after conversion to a new timetable and a significant effort is made on the railway. Since 2008, railway appropriations have been more than doubled and NTPs add up to continued growth. Equally full: an international benchmark analysis shows that Norway’s railways are medium-sized in European context, and they are far behind countries with which it is natural to compare us. We are far behind Switzerland and our neighbouring country Sweden, but also behind England, Finland and Spain. So the fourth thing I want to end up asking the Council of States is: does the Council of States have the ambition to make Norway the world, or at least Europe, the best railway country, or are we going to continue to be mediocre and to keep on hoping for the best?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e347	The last question I can agree to, because what this debate hopefully now shows is that we're done with the years when large parts of the Norwegian parties talked the railway down and said it was an old-fashioned solution. It was said that talking for the railway was like carrying oats to a dead horse – that's what you could end up with. I have produced several quotations from representatives from sitting government parties who thought they would end up with the railway at all. That time is blasphemous, but the question ahead is, are we as a nation willing to bet? The EU rail directive and rail package IV were thus voted down in the EU Parliament last week. It was because major railway nations that have run railways with a much more offensive policy than Norway in the last 30 years, so that the proposals contained in railway package IV are not good for developing a good railway policy. The important thing is that we manage to bet on having a railway and material. We have tested competition in Norway on some sections, and on goods we do. If you're busy getting more goods on the railway, it's a sad fact that the volume goes down. It is a matter of not having made the big investments, which look at the long lines of investment, in order to get the goods onto the railways. Then you can't continue with a small investment here and a small investment there; you have to look at the long distances, also the distances that combine us with the rest of the world. And to the Minister of Transport, I want to say that it's not just on the Eastfold border. Also elsewhere in the country, there will be a significant contribution to this. It's about, for example, you know. use the sections of the track we have, electrify them and make two tracks between the Central East and Middle Norway, through the Baltic Valley and on the Solørbahn. It lies there, and there's actually also a section of track that goes to Sweden, which can be connected, so that you have a freight line that allows you to offer what those who are going to transport their goods need. It is these issues that are important, not the ideological debate that competition only leads to benefits for the railways, as someone thinks. The representative Myrli was up here and listed, among other things. the slightly blurred image -- that may be a bit cleverly said -- of all the different devices that sort in under the NSB. This should then be coordinated, and even more private suppliers should be involved. It is not obvious that it will benefit passengers. In countries that have done this systematically, and that still push for this solution, as in England, there have been quite a lot of bad stories about this. It hasn't gotten any cheaper or better. Then I think the government gets to put these ideological overtones aside. What's a little strange today is perhaps that it's the Left and Christian People's Party that is the most ideological in its approaches to this issue, and that the government parties actually see a little more advantages and disadvantages and will try to get a result that makes it serve Norwegian rail and Norwegian both freight and passenger traffic the best. I'm glad. But it may be necessary to be stronger in the pinch than that. Therefore, there is now a need for an analysis, a clear analysis, of which steps will split this up more than is the case today, and prevent the coordinated efforts that need to be put in place if we are to have a modern and good rail service in Norway. I will end with it, for the railway is, in my view, the most modern and the most climate-friendly mode of transport we have. We should develop it. I'm glad that everyone has now stopped talking about it being old-fashioned, but it will turn out when the distribution between road and track comes, if the government thinks anything about the railway bet, or if there's just some kind of skin over old policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e363	Thanks to the interpellant for an interesting debate and to the Council of State for a constructive approach to the challenge we are facing. The Bondvik II government, with Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm from Left, announced competition on Gjøvikbanen. The contract period was 10 years, from 2006 until 2016. The offer was extended in the contract by 40 pst. Traffic growth in the period until now is 26 pst. On some departures in the morning and in the afternoon, there is a burst of capacity – and I often use the Gjøvik track on a journey home to Gjøvik. But still this is the only distance in Norway that does not have an hourly leave. Travel time is still over two hours, which corresponds to an average speed of 62 kilometers per hour, and it is eleven minutes longer than in 1994. Modernity is so often, but in terms of travel time, at least we haven't moved in the right direction here. The Gjøvik track is the route for freight transport between Oslo and Bergen. That's the main route between Oslo and Roa. At times, freight transport is so precarious that it is a matter of reducing passenger train services in order to accommodate more goods. It's a serious situation, and it says something about the fact that modern society needs more transport both by people and by goods. In addition to these facts about increasing growth in transport, I think it's interesting with competition. There have also been other innovations on the Gjøvik track, among others. related to customer service. Those who work on the Gjøvik tracks say that there is a much shorter way to make changes. They're getting closer to the passengers. It is not a coincidence that the first train offer where you had wireless networks in the wagons was on the Gjøvik track, where you can suddenly get a conductor on the side that asks if you want an ice cream or a bottle of water. They have even introduced the ‘Pour Train’ and reintroduced the Tralla, and they have developed the Environmental Train. They transport 2,000 students between the Technical Museum of Kjelsås and the White Centre of Gjøvik and have developed a teaching system that is now being introduced on several sections of the NSB. It says something about competition contributing to development. Then it's important to have a long horizon in terms of rail, and it's not random that there were ten years of contract time on the Gjøvik Railway – it's going to be invested in material. On the Gjøvik track, old train equipment was upgraded, and when the load is so high on a 18th century timber track and there are so many departures and large traffic growth, the material is worn out, and we have seen that the result of the last month, with up to seven trainsets on the Gjøvik railway that have been out of service. It leads to a bus offer that nobody's earned. So it's heavy and long investments in material. And someone's been up to this with organization and how many there are to deal with. It had the red-greens a golden opportunity to do something about it in eight years, but it's probably more than it's gotten less to deal with. The left will continue to use the Gjøvik Railway as a pilot, because we believe it is important to modernise the collective service in this way, and it seems to have acted as an effective pilot route to drive development. So we have a desire to develop competition to also include the sleepers and the course. It is clear that even more players than the representatives Sverre Myrli mentioned then need to deal with each other. Regulatory plans are now the major challenge of using the increased rail resources to achieve rapid improvements on the Gjøvik track. It's not the big investments that we're talking about here. There are only two crossing tracks on the Gjøvik track today. If we get one more, and if we get some of the 127 level crossings on this route, it's clear that we can bring down the travel time, down to – I hope – 89 minutes, and that we start talking about minutes on the Gjøvik track and not talking about hours, hours, on a journey distance of 124 kilometers. So here's a lot to deal with, but it's useful to limit it to some distances. We have a lot to learn from in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e380	I want to thank you for the discussion and the debate, which I think is very interesting, although I am a little surprised. Swearing Myrli and others said that one suspects the interpellant, me, to be ideologically oriented, and that being for competition has to do with ideology, while being against it is not ideologically based. I'm probably very much in doubt about that. For my part, it is definitely not ideology that is the driver of our now having this interpellation; it is only that we have to get an offer that is better for the individual traveller. In my former role as both the City Council and representative of Oslo City Council, I have both been in favour of and behind the offer of a bus, and I have been strongly opposed to the competitive launching of trams and trams – I have even stopped a competitive outsourcing of workshops in an earlier period. But as it is for the Norwegian railway now, we need to look at it. One thing is to look at competition between different companies. With regard to the Gjøvik Railway and the situation we faced when it was put at a competitive disadvantage, it was at risk of being closed down in the north, and it is competition with a long time perspective that saves and makes us now have the route and the offer and has the opportunity to develop it in the years to come. But so important is not exactly competition in terms of operations, well that's how important it is to get a more overall, long-term planning horizon. I want to use one example that I think illustrates well that, as it is now organised, with a significant emphasis on the railway works, sometimes it is completely wrong. The example is the new double track that was opened west of Oslo. When you opened it, no one knew which route offer to go on that route. When you first build the infrastructure and then put a route offer on top of it, you should not be surprised if there is no turning track, a parking space, etc. to implement – which has helped to delay the improved route provision to be made in the East. What we need is an AS or an organisation that is responsible for the long-term planning, for the route provision that is to be made on the infrastructure, and for making tenders to have the most efficient operation of this. I'm very aware that there are many ways to do the organization itself, and there are a lot of interfaces to be aware of. All systems usually have built-in biases that need to be adjusted over time. But I'm very pleased, and I think that with this interpellation we have at least started a work on a completely necessary reform of the Norwegian railway system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e396	Thank you to the interpellant, and thank you for many good posts. I see that there is a very clear majority in this room that is moving in the same direction, and that wants to make changes to the system in order to get a better offer to the travellers. I recall that the bulk of the population has already adopted increased appropriations for maintenance and increased appropriations for planning. We have announced that the Ringerix Railway should be part of the intercity triangle. We've told you to start KVU at the freight terminal in Bergen. There are many things done on the railway already that show a completely different pace now than before, although there was also growth under the red-green government. I don't think there's any sense in summing up so much of what the interpellant has taken up. The majority here agree on direction, and the government will follow up and come back to Stortinget with it. What surprises me a little bit more is the attitude that comes from the former government parties. I now understand even more clearly why so little has happened on the system side in the last eight years. For everything is terribly difficult and heavy. It's sad and sad that there are many companies. But they've been running after it for eight years. There is much that is wrong with rail freight, but the previous government could invest in better maintenance and ensure regularity. There is no outsourcing that has been the problem for rail freight; there are too many cancellations because the infrastructure does not meet its objectives. There were 435 cancellations last year. Is it strange that part of the goods or goods owners choose a truck instead of a train? No, I understand them very well, I – the important thing for the product owners is to know when the goods come, because it usually says a truck at the other end. It is not useful to blame for competition when the previous government has actually failed to ensure that the tracks are in place and are operational when freight trains are due to leave. So to Sverre Myrli, who basically sees problems. I perceive that both interpellant Elvestuen, signed and the other bourgeois parties greatly heightened the situation of travellers. It's precisely because the travelers are going to experience the railway as a predictable, good and comfortable carrier, we want those changes. So the whole starting point for the article was wrong. That's what they said. The second is driveway parking. Yes, then the previous government should give other signals to the Railway Agency. For the Railway Agency tells us that they have been told clearly that people are not going to drive into towns and cities. Therefore, they no longer build parking spaces. That would mean that people drove into the railway station, and people would get to the railway station by bus or bicycle. If the red-green parties now have changed their mind and want to make it easier for people to drive to the railway and park, that's very good. That policy will lead this government in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e413	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e429	Norwegian roads required 187 lives in 2013. That's 187 lives for many. Many more are injured for life and deprived of the opportunity to live the lives they would have wanted. Providing better road safety is one of the most demanding tasks of any government. This government, like several previous governments, has determined that the zero vision should be the basis for their work. I'm glad. I am also very pleased that this government and the Minister for Transport have road safety so high on their agenda. After a decrease in the number of fatalities and injuries, 2013 marked a break in that trend. The number of deaths increased by 30 pst. In fact, there were fewer deaths in traffic in 2013 than the average for the last ten years, but for relatives, there is a lean comfort, and for us politicians, it is a reminder that the results of road safety work do not come about by itself. Traffic safety work is extensive, it intervenes in many different fields. The causes of the accidents are complex and I am therefore pleased that this government has already shown the willingness to take the necessary action in a number of fields to strengthen road safety work. These include: granted an increase of 3 million. kr to enable the Road Administration to control many more cars; winter driving licences are now to be introduced with mandatory smooth driving courses for foreign drivers and increased funds have been allocated for record checks. In particular, international efforts are being undertaken to facilitate the defeat of foreign drivers who have broken the law. But all of this that has been done in a short time and in the last few months has also been absolutely necessary. In order to strengthen road safety work, we need to work on many fronts, and in the short term, one of them is to ensure that the heavy goods transport that runs on our roads is in a safe condition and that we have drivers who comply with the applicable legislation. This winter we have once again seen examples that trailers and wintering can constitute a very dangerous and, in the worst case, fatal combination. In November, at NRK Nordland, we could hear about a trailer that was stopped by the police with blank-polished tyres attached to chains that did not fit, and that was therefore tightened with straps. The driver tells us that he has never driven on winter roads before. It's scary to hear such stories, but unfortunately it's not unique. Another example, which we could recently read about in the Address Paper, was a semi-trailer on the way up to Meråker who failed to stop in control, but which the Vegvesen got stopped. The trailer proved to have major defects and constituted a road safety risk on our roads. Many of these combinations of vehicles also do not comply with the driving and rest periods and pose a high risk to road safety. At other times, drivers are stopped after breaking these provisions. Even if trucks are equipped with control mechanisms that allow drivers not to operate more effectively than permitted, we also know that some drivers bypass this by using additional driving licences. When it is a colleague's driving licence, it is relatively easy to reveal, but in January it was revealed that false driving licences that look real are also used. According to people in the industry who have tried themselves, these can be ordered from abroad for only a few tens of euros. It creates a great uncertainty for Norwegian road users that it is not possible to know for sure whether the drivers you meet in large car trains are complying with the provisions and regulations in Norway, and whether it is actually a professional driver who drives these cars. Fortunately, there are light points. The record number of checks for which the government has granted money has produced results. According to the Road Service, there are three times as many checks as before. A total of 1 400 car combinations have been banned from driving. Now we have to discuss how we're going to make it fewer. I believe that the measures must be tightened up. It must not only be cut onto poorly-shoeed cars, it must be placed on several locks. There is a need to ensure the necessary driving skills, and I am pleased that these measures are being implemented by the government. I am also pleased that the industry itself is making sure to take its own initiatives for good solutions. One of these arrangements is the Safety Trailer, a project that was first started as a collaboration between Nova Sea and the State Road Service, and which has later spread to large parts of North Norway, and also southwards. There is a solution developed by the industry itself to help ensure that roadside trailers that are dangerous to traffic are not sent out. It all started with the unloading of the Nova Sea fish processing plant at Lovund on the Helgeland coast was taught by Vegvesenet to check whether the tracks that came and picked up salmon were properly protected and in good condition, using a checklist. If they weren't, they notified the police and the Road Service, who could move out and give the tracks a driving ban. The results were great. From one year to the next, it went from 4 pst. deviations on the forms of only 1,4 pst. This is an example of what the industry can do itself. It is important that the country helps to roll this out in several parts of the country. But Safety Trailer is also a good example of the industry itself launching good measures to address the road safety challenges, and I hope that such measures will help us to see more of them in the future. Another example comes from the truck industry, which with Norsk Lastebileier-Verbund in the head has launched the Transport habit. There shall be a certification system that acts as a tailtag for transport undertakings. Such an inter-branch approval I think I can help to make those who are supposed to have transported their goods more aware of their choice of transport company. If we are to succeed, all stages in the chain must be held accountable. What I have mentioned now are some examples of that. Why are the industry-initiated solutions good? Well, they're good because the industry itself is taking the initiative. Then they can become more effective. I want the state to contribute, but not so much that the industry itself loses ownership of the measures. Then I'm afraid they're losing some of the effect. In the evening post today, checks on heavy transport are mentioned. It turns out it has to be worked on a broad front. There must be increased resources for control, better police, customs and road cooperation, and there must be legal and economic responsibility on the part of those who order the transport. This is the starting point for the work now being undertaken to improve road safety. We cannot risk 2014 being as bad a year as 2013 was for road safety. Our goal in road safety work is to make driving on Norwegian roads feel safe. Then we need to be more confident that the heavy-duty vehicles we meet will be sufficiently safe. I think it is very positive that the industry is already running and that the government is so offensive. There's still things we have to do. The zero vision is a leading star in the work, and we can't allow ourselves to relax until this has become a reality. Governmental parties in Stortinget want to be offensive in road safety work. That is why today we want a debate in Stortinget on how we can be more involved in this work, and what action needs to be taken so that we can now make an effort to strengthen this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e463	First, a big thank you to the interpellant for taking up a very important theme. Traffic safety is the most important thing for us. People should be safe when driving on Norwegian roads, they should know that they can survive and that the road infrastructure is so good that it does not pose a danger. The package of measures based on the national transport plan on road safety is soon to be completed and will be presented. I will ensure that it is also mentioned in the revised budget, so that the Storting can give feedback on whether they believe that the national transport plan in the field of road safety is being followed up as desired and expected. This is a theme that has dealt with both me and the government from day one in government. We were quick to increase the appropriations for tunnel safety – we increased by over 50 pst. We increased the appropriations for the maintenance of the road network, and we also increased the appropriations for the State Road Service directly towards control activities. Only at the end of the day, there's a difference in the government that governs. This winter will probably be carried out four times more checks on heavy-duty vehicles than last winter. It's about political signals, and it's about priority funds. I have participated in several checks myself, and I have met the Road Administration in many places in the country to talk about this. I'm very pleased with the commitment you see from the Road Administration's people, and the initiatives they themselves take to improve the systems, to report back to us about what kind of wishes they have, so that they can work better at their workplaces. We've also notified a number of grips, and I'm going to take up some of those things here. Traffic safety is about a lot of things, both about the nature of the road and how we secure it. It's about how we maintain it, and it's about the skills and attitudes of the drivers. I'm going to focus on heavy transport, because it was also what the interpellant spent most time on. That doesn't mean the other things are forgotten, but I'll come back to them on other occasions. Norwegian winter roads are quite demanding for road users, and Norwegian summer roads can also be quite demanding when thinking about the width of a part of the roads. Even our European pathways lack yellow midstretch some places. I don't want it to be like that, but it takes time to fix it, unfortunately. Then there are also challenges with the vehicles on the roads. A lot of carriers, a lot of drivers, are good, but there are more and more – I experience, at least – dangerous vehicles with drivers who do not have the driving characteristics they should have on Norwegian roads. It is both Norwegian carriers and a major feature of non-resident carriers who are slurring. As problems are complex and linked to different conditions, for example: road networks, weather, traffic conditions, traffic growth and the knowledge of those driving on the roads, we also need a very broad approach to what actions we are taking. We have already notified more measures, and we have already launched more measures. This is also good that Stortinget is engaged in. With regard to road and infrastructure measures, it is known that the State Road Service has a nationwide standard for winter operations. It's been a while. It is important that they follow the standard they have set, but it is also important that they identify specific problems in winter time and look at what further remedial measures can be taken. Some remedial measures, such as: on the E39 in West Agder, will take time, for it is about building a better road. But making sure that one drives it better until the new road is in place is also important, and there is one looking at the grip for how one should be in place earlier when one sees that the snow comes, for example. that the printing police and the Vegvesen sit down and see the weather forecast together. That's some of what we've been talking about, and that they're going to establish as a routine, just to be in front of the weather, instead of coming first when you see that it's physical snow. Another thing that we're discussing and going to do something about is multiple parking spaces for heavy vehicles. When you have checks today, the few parking spaces along the road are quickly filled up, and that means that the check must be stopped. It can't be like that. We have to make sure that parking spaces are sufficient both at our border crossings and where one has frequent checks, so that one actually has room to ban cars and leave them standing. Today, a speculator can speculate about getting cars stopped because the parking space is filled up, and then the traffic goes as normal afterwards. Because some border crossing control stations close at the end of working hours. 16, unprofessional actors know when it makes sense to enter the country from their perspective. From our perspective, we have to make sure that there is border control 24 hours a day, so that no one can speculate in the opening hours of the Road Administration. We also need to work to establish more daily rest places for drivers. We're going to have a meeting with the gas station operators and others in the industry just to see how we can establish with them several places. It is natural that one looks at the possibility of having both fuel, food and other offers when one first has a rest station, and that it does not just become normal rest spaces without any offer. But here I believe that the state should not be responsible for the operation of gas stations. It's the commercial players. But we have to take initiatives, so that they also see opportunities. We have to see how we can better facilitate that they are allowed to build this without too many problems from the authorities. We have to make sure that we have more effective controls. One of the things I've observed is that a lot of time is spent on paperwork when one is on the checks. Therefore, it is important that a get automatic, or digital, tool, so that one can switch on an iPad or similar and reduce unnecessary paperwork. We will ensure that it is developed and improved control technologies, such as: automatic reading of signs, so that we can register cars that have been problem cars before, and more easily stop them, and not stop all those who have been shown by many checks not to have problems. It's important that we spend time on those who are challenging. In the same way, we can establish a system that detects defects and deficiencies, for example: brakes on the vehicle by means of a heat-seeking camera. All of this simplifies the everyday life of those who work here, and also simplifies the everyday life of those who have everything in order. Then we need to improve the interaction between the control bodies. I have already met with political leaders in the Ministry of Justice and representatives of the State Police Department, the Police Directorate and the Road Directorate to see how one can work better together. This also means that part of the legislation needs to be simplified, so that the Road Service can print out the fines that you need today to get a police patrol in place to do, for example. if it is cheated with rest periods and recording equipment. It's pointless that you have to pick up a police car to print a fine when it's proven by the Road Service that crime has been committed. Therefore, we need to ensure the necessary remedies and changes in the law. One of the things we're working on is appropriate coercive measures to stop the vehicle, or immobilize the vehicle, for example. use of wheel locks. It's completely strange, I don't think it's already in place. Now it's a test project on the South. We want in the legislation to make it possible to put it into use everywhere. In addition, when we amend Section 36(b) of the Road Traffic Act, we are given greater opportunities to withhold vehicles until fines, penalties or other charges have been paid. Today we see that some carriers just refuse to adopt the proposal, and then they continue. So the authorities are standing there without a chance. This should have been repaired a long time ago. Then it is important that we strengthen vehicle safety. The working party is out today in the evening post saying that action needs to be taken. That's absolutely right. The only measure they themselves referred to was the requirement for winter tyres on the cab of a car. I think that's important, but it's obviously too little. That is why we are also working to make demands for winter tyres on trailers. There's a work going on. The Road Directorate has been told by me to send proposals for winter tyres on EEA hearings. We want to have such a requirement implemented as early as autumn 2014 if everything goes well. In addition, it is important that the Wegvesenet, when they stop cars, check whether the cars are properly loaded, so that the weight comes on the drive wheels and is not completely behind the trailer. We also need to demand better driving skills for drivers. I have sent a message to the Directorate of Roads to investigate the scope of the EEA Agreement in order to request a so-called winter driver's license. It was something that was taken up in Stortinget at least in 2010. Then it was rejected from the previous government. We're going to get it done. That is why I am also going to Brussels on Thursday to discuss this with the European Commission. It is important that we stress here that the requirements apply to all drivers regardless of nationality, and that we have defined distances where we make such demands. It is important for us to be able to implement it as well. The use of fake driving licences worries me. Therefore, it is important that we obtain electronic systems that communicate across national borders, so that we can check, in addition to looking at the driving licence, whether the licence is registered in the national bases around it. It's a work we've undertaken and will get results from. So finally, the safe trailer, which was picked up by the interpellant, is something we, once we've seen experiences from others, will make sure that it becomes a national round of along with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e514	I would like to thank the Minister for his very good answers. It is good to hear that so many of the measures that I signed are being taken into consideration, both in view of the safety trailer issue, and also that the government sees the need to anchor the road safety work in Stortinget to a much greater extent. That is why we look forward to what the Minister for Transport wants to do in revision. It's important. It is also important that the Storting acknowledges that you have a long way to go. So I think it's okay that the Workers' Party also says clearly about the evening post today. There, the representative said that something had been done. But it turns out we didn't do enough. ‘We recognised that around 2011, and then we contacted the transport industry to find ways to tackle the problem.’ I am pleased that the Minister for Transport has already taken the initiative to bring together industry and stakeholders and receive input from them on how we can improve road safety work. I am glad that we do not have a government that waits for many years before doing anything, but that it has already initiated many measures. There's one thing in particular that I want the Council of State to respond to. Today, there is no special risk of entering Norway with poorly equipped car combinations. There is no risk to a large extent either for the driver or the owner of the car. I believe that the Minister for Transport must assess how we can raise the level of fines. Fines, fines are clear language. Not only does it hit the driver, it also affects the owner of the car, and it has great economic consequences to transport a car to Norway that is not well equipped. When we gradually get an auto pass in these cars, it is also possible to trace back to the owner. I think it's an important signal that Norwegian authorities are raising the fine level. It is a clear message that we do not accept driving a car into Norway that is not well equipped for Norwegian winter roads. I hope the Minister for Transport wants to consider doing something about the level of fines.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e528	Thank you again for the inter-pellant. It is important that the growth and government cooperate in these areas, both in terms of heavy transport, which we are discussing primarily now, and in other areas of road safety. In this regard, I will have a listening meeting tomorrow with the horse industry in the country, precisely in terms of road safety, to look at what we can do better to ensure that horse and horse, which are soft road users, can be better cared for. With regard to the competitive situation in the transport market, there are currently outstanding up to several hundred million kroner — tolls, fines and other things — that non-resident carriers have not paid in Norway. I mentioned in my post that you cannot be held back today when you receive a presentation. You can only refuse to adopt it and thus travel on. We don't want to have it like that. It is important in this respect that we get fines in place and that we ensure that the level of the fine is so high that it is deterrent to those carriers who do not follow the rules. Looking at the penalty level is a natural part of this. I can confirm that to the interpellant. It costs a lot of money to have a vehicle train in operation. If some actors sneak away from paying tolls, as long as we have, and sneak away from paying fines, it gives an unfortunate competitive advantage to the unprofessional actors. Regardless of whether they are Norwegians or non-residents – we have to make sure they pay for themselves. That means that having fines like weeds is an important signal to the industry. Some of them come to you, for example. Svinesund, is stopped and says they have no money to pay their fines. I then wonder how they have the money to pay for fuel or food. It is obvious that if they do not carry cash or credit cards in the vehicle combination, they do not have anything to do on Norwegian roads. Bombs are one way to ensure that vehicles can be registered electronically. This will be required in a short time. To ensure that fines can also be imposed on the bomb block, we work on it. We have to work with the Data Protection Agency to get it done. The important thing is to ensure that you know that you have a valid address to send the bill to, and that that bill may be collected in different countries. It's an authority we naturally have in Norway, but it's not an authority we have over other countries. This is part of a larger work that is now being done in the ministry. A cabotage group was set up in 2013, which also looks at the social and market situation. We had a discussion about this in Stortinget a few months ago. It's important that we get this included, because it's about road safety. Ensuring that the serious operators, with good technical equipment for vehicle combinations, are the winners of competition is also a way of ensuring better road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e541	In the autumn of 2006 a Swedish registered wagon train with Polish driver came running on the E39 at Lindesnes. Three of the tyres on the trailer were completely worn out. The roadway was wet, the car combination kept too high speed and got water planning. The trailer ended up in the wrong lane and collided front with a passenger car. In the passenger car there was a man in his 30s who suffered lifelong injuries in this tragic traffic accident. This is an example of the worst that can happen when a poorly pushed car combination and a risky driver are driving on our roads. We can't have it that way. Every winter we see the same thing – bad-boiled car trains, often foreign, but also Norwegian, do not deal with Norwegian driving conditions and create chaos, queues and traffic-threatening situations on our winter roads. That's why it's an important issue the interpellant is dealing with today, which engages many people and all the parties here on the Stortinget. This is a complex problem. On the one hand, there are technical factors relating to vehicles and equipment, and on the other hand driving skills, and on the other hand regular crime, and on the other hand, but perhaps not least employment and competition conditions in the transport sector. A number of measures have been put in place to stop road-hazardous trailers on Norwegian roads, both by the Red-Green Government and by the Right-Fremskritspart government. During the red-green government, new winter tyre requirements for vehicles above 3,5 tonnes and winter tyre requirements were introduced during the winter period. This requirement also applies to non-resident vehicles. Frequent checks of vehicle combinations were and are central. The size granted before Christmas, as was said earlier, 3 million. kr extra to the State Road Service to strengthen the control of heavy-duty vehicles, especially on tyres, brakes and chains. This has produced results. As also said before, so far in winter you have checked three times more than in the whole winter season. This is good, but we must constantly consider new measures to prevent dangerous vehicle trains from driving on our roads. In the evening post today, the State Road Service reports that one is fishing in a bottomless sea. It says that we have challenges, and that we have to make further efforts. It is therefore positive that the State Road Administration and the Ministry of Transport want to further strengthen their efforts against heavy goods vehicles. The working party wants an assessment of a winter tyre directive also for trailers. It is not going to pass that there have been major changes in the Norwegian transport market in recent years. The transport industry is becoming increasingly international, and the number of non-resident road trains on Norwegian roads has increased. This creates pressure on pay and working conditions in the industry. This must also be seen in the context of the issue we are discussing now, namely how heavy car trains can threaten road safety and the availability of Norwegian roads, especially in winter. The working party has worked for a long time to promote orderly pay and working conditions in the transport sector. The red-green government presented its third action plan on social dumping last May. Part of the plan was a separate sector programme for road transport. A working group of the social partners has been set up to monitor working conditions in the road sector. This action plan was followed up by a proposal for a representative to be examined by the Transport Committee. Here we present ten measures to halt the development of social dumping, crime and increased safety risks in the transport sector, which we ask the government to implement. It is important to clarify the co-responsibility of transport buyers. It shall sweat on the purse, as the council said, for those who choose a cheap carrier, but who cost society dearly if the accident is out. And it goes without saying that when the carrier is cheap, the hourly salary for the driver is then. Let me use an example from my home country, Rogaland. A foreign trailer delivered goods to the company NorDan on Moi. The trailer ended up in the ditch three times and had to be rescued from the state roadway. Inspectors found that the vehicle was poorly shunted, and it turned out that the driver could not pay for the rescue either. The mariner was connected, and an enquiry was made to NorDan to ensure settlement for the rescue. One consequence of this matter is that the company NorDan will now become much more critical when they choose carriers, wrote the Dalane Journal yesterday. We are going to discuss this matter in different contexts, even when the proposal for a representative is to be discussed in the Committee. I have to say I am a little stunned when the representative of Greece raises traffic safety so high. One of the most important measures that may be available to reduce the number of injuries and fatalities in traffic is route automatic traffic control, which this government wants to remove. I wish there was something that is not being done, but it says in the government's platform that they should do it. Winter-time trailers cause accidents, both damaged and killed, but it is mainly speedy and the behaviour of drivers is crucial for how this is done. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e562	There are speaking and timing rules in this Chamber that need to be respected, just as driving and rest provisions must be respected on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e565	It is gratifying to see that both the Council of State and the Government focus a lot on road safety work, in this case especially on heavy vehicles. It is important to save lives in traffic – we have no one to lose. It is also important to ensure a level playing field in the transport sector. Setting high safety requirements and monitoring them with controls and penalties will also help to unlock unprofessional actors. Traffic safety starts with a good infrastructure. Unfortunately, for many of our roads are not built for heavy traffic. It is often shown in the absence of crabs, in the case of narrow and curved roads and in the case of insufficient road shoulders. From my own country, I can mention two important export routes for industry in the North West, rv. 70 and E136, both with long distances without satisfactory standards, and I am sure that the other representatives could mention several relevant distances from their own counties. The consequence is that every year we experience trailers driving off the road as a result of narrow roads and, unfortunately also in many cases, for poor winter equipment. This is fatal for road safety and leads to long periods of closed roads. Good winter maintenance is important, but it is also important that we get rid of the bottlenecks in the main road network as soon as possible. I am convinced that the Council of State and the Government will contribute to that in the years ahead. Effective control in all parts of the value chain is an important tool to enhance road safety. The good examples we have from the Safety Trailer show that it is useful to take responsibility for all stages of the chain, from the purchaser of the transport service, via the carrier and to the customer. The check can be carried out with simple means before the cars are loaded, and the contracting entity is thus guaranteed a proper transport. The fact that the goods arrive safely and in a timely manner will simply pay off. Such arrangements must be implemented in close cooperation between the authorities and the industry. The self-control of the industry can never replace official controls, but it is a good supplement. At the same time, authorities must ensure that effective and sound sanctioning arrangements are in place. It has to be hard to break the rules. Strict fines may be such an instrument, but I believe that what is perhaps the most effective is a form of vehicle immobilisation, for example. locks, which have been mentioned earlier in the debate, or restraint of the vehicle. Such penalties will affect the whole value chain and the behaviour of the actors in the long term. That's when we've achieved what we want. I am pleased that the Council of State and the Government now have road safety high on the agenda. That's absolutely necessary. At the same time, I welcome the signals that the Safety Trailer system should continue. I am convinced that the combination of increased investment in infrastructure, increased controls with strict penalties and increased focus on road safety throughout the value chain will produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e580	I would like to take this opportunity to commend the representative of Hofstad Helleland for the interpellation. Both this and the representative Juvik's interpellation earlier this year, on the traffic risk of heavy-duty vehicles on Norwegian winter roads, are important areas for us to focus on. We have also experienced serious accidents this year where drivers with poorly equipped car combinations have had the primary responsibility. In addition, freight trains have ended up across the road and have led to long queues and problems for all other traffic. The explanation includes, inter alia: have been subjected to miserable tyres and drivers who do not control Norwegian winter driving. Many people call this death engines on Norwegian roads, and I understand why the term is used. I am pleased that we have received a government that clearly grasps something that seems to have been an increasing problem in recent years, and I appreciate the measures that the Council of State mentioned in its statement. I am pleased that the new government has increased the appropriations for the controls of heavy-duty vehicles this winter, which the council said has had a positive effect, and I hope we can get more controls in the years to come. I also recorded on the occasion that the editorial in Saturday's edition of the Evening Post chose to give praise to the Vegvesen because they have tripled the controls on heavy vehicles this winter, and that in the same article they thought that Secretary of State Bård Hoksrud was hesitant and waiting for the issue that we are debating here today. I myself am pleased that the State Secretary has not been hesitant and hesitant, but on the contrary has been a driver because the government has granted $3 million. extra kr to the Road Service so that they could use them for the control of tyres, chains and brakes. Checks need to be intensified further. There will be more than 3,500 heavy vehicles across the border every single day. Of the almost 40,000 vehicles that have been checked in winter, the condition of 1 400 was so miserable that they were banned from driving, while 2000 were charged fees. But most still escape. That is why I am pleased that the Council of States is calling for an increase in the intensity of border crossings. I hope that also means that the stations next winter will not close at noon. 16, but that we can use controllers even in the evening. The NRK reported in December that at the customs border station there is a queue of vehicle trains which drivers are sitting and looking at the clock and waiting for the Road Service staff to stop work, turn off the light and go home. At the end of the day, they drive into Norway. It is therefore important that we try to find means, so that the control stations can stay open more than 24 hours, at least during the worst periods, so that the chance of being stopped is greater. From other measures mentioned by the Council of State, I would like to highlight the issues of more effective control of good interaction between the control bodies and the use of new technologies, the possibility of using wheel locks and several resting places for professional drivers along Norwegian roads. This is something the Progress Party has long called for and will help to facilitate compliance with driving and rest times. The value of having a driver sleeping in a parked car in a rest area instead of sleeping behind the steering wheel cannot be measured in crowns and ears. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Council of State that I will not give him peace with regard to the point of the necessary competence for winter driving, which the previous government voted down in 2010. Here I know that the Council of State is doing well, and I hope that the Committee can be kept informed about the further work ahead. Otherwise, I noticed that Eirin Sund took an example from 2006. It shows that they have been aware of the problem for eight years, but it is only now that they are in opposition that they come up with a number of concrete proposals on action – proposals that the new government is already well underway. Finally, I would like to remind the House that the very best measure we can take to ensure increased road safety on Norwegian roads is to be aware of our responsibilities in terms of the budget, and to strive to give us even more money for transport. We have to build several middle parts, we have to spend more money on maintaining existing road networks, and last but not least, new and better roads are the best investment we can make. We have a massive maintenance run on both national and county roads, and this will cost a lot of money in the future. But this will be necessary and proper investment because investment in infrastructure will benefit both us and future generations. I hope that the Storting will realize that it is necessary to use much more of the oil fund for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e606	The interpellant addresses key and important issues that we have really demonstrated the consequences of this winter. Serious accidents and many near-accident accidents, where drivers with poorly equipped car combinations have had the main responsibility, have unfortunately been repeaters so far this winter. The figures from the Road Directorate for 2013 are gloomy. Only in regions south, Buskerud, Vestfold, Telemark and Agder counties, is 13 pst. of the drivers on the lorry and on the lorry trains reported police breach of the driving and rest periods. 231 out of 1792 were notified. Only applied to Kristiansand City means that every hour more than ten drivers break the law daily. There is a clear need for action. I therefore fully agree with the views of the inter-pellant and the Council of State on the need to reverse these developments and that more controls and sanctions are required. It is good that the Vegvesenet has tripled the number of checks after the budget for this work was increased before Christmas after the conciliation between the two government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. However, there is still room for further increases in the number of controls. There are good reasons to assume that too many still escape. Nor does the level of the fine appear to be dissuasive enough to reduce the number of offences; NOK 10000 to NOK 15000 do not appear to be sufficient in any way to maintain vehicle combinations in a proper condition. Skilled drivers are being sent on Norwegian roads with a vehicle that is too poorly equipped, and especially now winter time. Then it will be especially when the driver UP's environmental patrol stopped on the Southland in winter, according to the fatherland friend that it was delicious to be taken – a statement that places a not insignificant responsibility on the transport companies, when unskilled drivers are sent out on Norwegian roads with poorly equipped vehicles. The pressure to arrive in time is so great that drivers choose to go on chords with the rest periods. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the government and the Council of State are in the process of working to improve the situation, hopefully. One of the measures that we are concerned with can be realised, including: better coordination of police, road and customs services through the establishment of a new unit with an extended, coordinated area of competence. This type of cooperation does not mean waiting for each other, but stopping, checking and imposing sanctions on vehicles from time to time. We are aware that this is established in other countries in Europe. In addition, there is a coordination that both the lorry industry and the road authorities have for a long time asked for. In the Christian People's Party we are also concerned that assessments are made of the proposals the Workers' Party promotes, to give companies that buy transport services, a greater share of responsibility. It should be natural for the purchaser of services to have a responsibility to prevent crime. It must be a central objective in this work that vehicle combinations on Norwegian roads should be safe vehicles and have safe drivers. We are not allowed to go on track with road safety work in this area either. This is about life and health for all who travel on Norwegian roads. Daily rest places are another important measure that is important not only for truck drivers but also for other road users. That's why it was important for the Christian People's Party to help increase the number of rest places when NTP was treated last year. However, the road safety challenges in this area do not mean that we must not forget to realise our political objective that more goods can be moved from road to road and cold, as well as that road standards can reach a higher level than today's situation. Not least, I would like to mention tribal road sections such as the E39 from Kristiansand and Westwards – which were also in the Council of State – that we have clearly demonstrated this winter. Work on increasing incentives for purchasers of transport services to take up rail and sea transport should now be intensified. There is an unused potential which could have a significant impact on road safety on Norwegian roads. Therefore, we are now waiting for the short-haul communication and the organisation of the lines that can make it more attractive to use these modes of transport. This is also about increasing road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e626	In the broad picture, it is important to focus on the fact that the more freight that can be transported by sea and by rail, the smaller the problems that will be experienced by trailers in winter bring about. It is therefore important that we now take care of the transport industry as an industry. The use of cabotage legislation, the use of cheap foreign labour and illegalities related to vehicle requirements are a major threat to the Norwegian transport industry. Therefore, the national road authority must continuously work on targeting control activities, including through: training of control personnel and the development of new control tools. Therefore, in order to prevent at all from creating difficulties in Norwegian winter roads for foreign, ill-suited trucks, the control of tyres and chains needs to be intensified at border crossing points. It is therefore gratifying that this is now being done. Because it doesn't always work out just to see that the chains are involved. Random sampling of the application of chains should also be considered. It is considered by the Centre Party that this is a natural part of the driving skills themselves. It is therefore gratifying to hear that the Council of State will address it. There is little help if the towing vehicle has proper winter tyres, if the trailer does not also have winter tyres. Fresh figures from checks carried out by the State Road Administration in the North region show that while the tyre equipment on towing vehicles has improved slightly, there is almost 50 pst missing. by the trailers of winter tyres or chains. Anyone who has driven on Norwegian roads knows that it is not durable for the trailer to brake in a turn. This is due, inter alia, to: To the extent that a development is desired, trailers arrive at the country on trains. Nevertheless, it is crucial that additional resources be allocated to controls to be carried out by the State Road Administration, the Customs Authority and the police. It has also become a problem that non-resident wagon trains cannot settle separately, for example. in the case of rescue operations and fines. It is therefore particularly important that we now get a toll order for all heavy-duty vehicles, demanding that money be paid on the mandatory toll chips before the relevant means of transport crosses the Norwegian border. An introduction of a mandatory pre-payment or credit card payment piece will ensure that it is possible to recover expenses or fines in the event of an incident. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State is working on this, also against the Data Protection Authority. Strengthening cooperation between the state authorities of the road, the police, the tax system, the Labour Inspectorate and the Customs Administration will be an important measure to unlock unprofessional operators and lawbreakers in the transport industry. More stringent enforcement of cabotage legislation should be put in place as soon as possible. Cabotage operations shall not be permanent or planned. The background to the introduction was the wish to avoid empty trailers along Norwegian roads due to climate and environmental considerations. What is seen, on the other hand, is that the legislation is being exploited. It appears that the regulatory intention has failed thoroughly. We should therefore tighten the legislation in the direction of what Finland has done. I want to know if the Council of State is assessing this in the continuation. It is also important to focus on winter maintenance on exposed mountain crossings in order to maintain the regularity of these routes. As previous speakers have mentioned, transport buyers cannot be held liable for the situation in which they have been placed. Responsibility must also be placed with the contracting entity, including the conditions under which the carriage is to take place and the pressure experienced by the drivers and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e643	I would also like to thank you for this important interpellation. I'm well of those who always wonder that road safety gets as little attention as it really does – when we know how serious it is. I would like to say that the most important thing in terms of road safety is that the driver complies with the rules and that the vehicle is in a properly good safety condition. It's the most important thing. Several people have talked about what we were talking about in the previous interpellation, namely thinking about the long term in terms of how we're going to get more goods on the track. I'm from Hedmark. Hedmark and Uppland are perhaps the largest transit counties in the country, and trailer traffic is increasing dramatically on our roads. It is dangerous, and its volume creates problems for both road safety, accessibility and maintenance. For all purposes it is to get more of this goods over on the track or boat, incredibly important. But safety costs. Accidents are expensive, but what we're talking about today is really about social dumping – because that's what it is. It's extremely profitable. That's why there's a lot of people who run it, and there's a lot of people in Norway who contribute to social dumping without getting the slightest consequence for them. I am pleased with what I read online, that the Minister for Transport will meet the European Commission on 6 March, and that he will discuss concrete measures, such as: winter driving licence. I expect that he will also address this with toll pits and wheel locks, because it is absolutely necessary to use strong instruments to bring about social dumping and this serious road safety risk. The fact that there has been a tripling of controls in 2013 and that the Council of State now announces that they will be further increased is good. But then the measures we apply to these checks must actually lead to the cars that are dangerous to traffic not going on, and that they won't come back. It must hit both the owner and the buyer, not only the driver, for many of those who are driving, in a very distressed situation and may be forced to run beyond the safety regulations and rest periods. But they're kind of in an economically very difficult situation and often get the bill in the end. Although the owners of the cars had to pay the bill, it turns out that many people are left with the bill. These increased controls are needed, there is a need for them at borders and on ferry calls. Sjøl was on Sørlanden in January and experienced that the tracks were not allowed to continue when there was a lot of snow. It was very good, it worked, and we have to do more of that. I hear the Council of State says that he is positive that these inspectors can print fees there and there. I'm very positive about that. I also hope that it will infect the rest of the government when we have other proposals in the same field of social dumping, where regulators can print high fees there and then – because it works. This is about money. It's about paying off. Then you have to make sure that everything in the chain takes responsibility for what's going on. It is true that when someone buys something that they have to understand is social dumping, because it is so cheap, it must also be that we have to assess to the contracting entity what action it is that can be taken, just as the representative of the Christian People's Party was up here and said. So to the cabotage legislation: if we do not ensure strict cabotage regulations, the volume of these foreign vehicles will increase. The Norwegian transport industry will be threatened, and I think we will have an even greater problem controlling safety on Norwegian roads. I would also encourage the Minister to look at the rules from Finland – they are good, and they are legal, Finland is a member of the EU – because there is a legitimate need to take care of them, but it is also, after all, easier for Norway to control the cars that are Norwegian than the cars that are foreign.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e658	Usually we tend to thank interpellants for travelling important topics that would not otherwise be on the Storting's agenda right now. In this case it is a little different. Yes, it's a very important topic, but the matter is already on our agenda, i.e. it is at the disposal of the Transport Committee, where the interpellant is in fact the head. On 16 January this year, eight Workers' Party representatives tabled draft No. 18 S for 2013–2014, on the introduction of ten new measures against social dumping and crime in the transport sector, where road safety is one of several important objectives. I expect that the interpellant is familiar with it, and that she deliberately failed to mention it, and that this interpellance in that way is an attempt to take back the political initiative in the matter. But I think the matter is perhaps best served that all the good forces here are trying to cooperate. We also had on 9 January, a week before our representative proposal was promoted, an interpellation debate promoted by the representative Kjell-Idar Juvik of the Workers' Party, on a theme he called 'Trailers in Winterland'. The chairman of the Transport Committee did not really take part in that debate, nor did any of the other members of the Right's Committee on Transport, but we had the debate. As a member of the Labour and Social Committee, I will now, as a little less than two months ago, take on board the challenges of social dumping in the transport sector. It is positive that the checks on heavy-duty vehicles have stepped up this winter, that winter tyres for trailers, driving bans and wheel locks are now being considered, and that the Council of State will move to Brussels in two days and raise the question of training drivers to drive in Norwegian winter driving. These are among the ten points mentioned in the representative proposal from us, together with the registration of assignments and better equipment to detect false driving licences. This is also among the proposals made by the transport industry itself, in addition to tightening up the cabotage legislation, which the Workers' Party has also proposed. But we have to go a little bit further into matter. The Stoltenberg II Government proposed a separate sectoral programme against social dumping in the transport sector. Clean employment and employers who take their social responsibility seriously offer both equal competition and increased road safety. Responsible transport buyers, who take an extra check when the price of the transport operation is suspiciously low, contribute to the same thing. These are actions that would be included in a separate industry programme if we had still been in position. But in the opposition, it's representative proposals that are our way of dealing with matters. Unfortunately, the development shows that tidy working conditions are not something of their own. We therefore need to get the industry programme against social dumping in the transport sector up. In the debate on 9 January, I thought the Council of State was relatively unclear at that point, so it could be good to travel it again. Because the Health Declaration states that the government will: «continuation of work against social dumping» – this is for the benefit of both the employees and the serious enterprises. The Minister of Labour has also been aware that the government will close out unprofessional actors and facilitate fair competition. But when the same Minister of Labour at the same time stresses that he will first evaluate the measures that have been taken against social dumping, before he assesses any new ones, I think that is a cause for concern. The measures have been evaluated and they work. One of our proposals is to introduce regional protection agencies for the transport sector. So far, the Right Party and the Advance Party have been against it in all sectors. What do they mean now? The interpellant was himself in the warehouse of the Norway Lastebileier-Verbund this fall could tell about Mainstream Norway on Hamarøy, where trained employees check and alert about trailers that are too poorly shunted when they are going to fetch fish from their facilities in winter. In the worst case, they refuse to load. The interpellant also mentioned the legal and financial co-responsibility of the commissioners. This means that the Right Party and the Advance Party have turned around and are now in order to introduce joint responsibility, for example. in the transport sector? The level of the fine for those who carry out the assignment is one thing, but there are also people who buy these jobs that are so cheap that it is too good to be true, and who should also notice that it is subject to financial penalties. I think it would be nice if the Council of State in its final statement could elaborate both on the issue of regional protection officers and on the issue of joint and several liability.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e685	The representative of Christoffersen was somewhat critical of the interpellant and interpellant intentions. Although the representative Kjell-Idar Juvik has previously had an interpellation on similar issues, and there is a proposal for consideration in the committee on social dumping in the sector, I think it is very commendable that interpellant Hofstad Helleland addresses this issue and gives it the necessary focus. I believe that this topic cannot be addressed often enough. That also shows the debate. There's a lot of consensus about a lot in the hall, and a lot of people have shocking stories to tell about what's observed on the roads, and we have alarming numbers to point to. We've all seen the TV images. Many of the TV images appear to be scary and dangerous. It also seems unnecessary sometimes when you see what you see, it seems unprofessional, and it almost seems that some actors almost give the scam. Then we politicians who watch and follow this must respond and follow up. We have to protect ourselves against what is dangerous and scary, we have to prevent it from being stupid, and we have to help change behavior, so that the actors that are there have to follow the rules. When we have an ambition of zero deaths in traffic, it is important to have comprehensive measures. Some measures have already been taken. It's been mentioned here that you've given $3 million. kr more to the Road Service for increased checks, and that's good. The fact that you have to have a smooth ride and a winter driver’s license is good, and it is also important to have a record number of checks and not least to have an international work to do this. We are going to follow this up, and we are going to support the Council of State in this, and not least we are pleased with both the initiative and commitment of the Council of State in this field. I believe it is unacceptable that we have drivers coming to Norway and bypassing the driving rules with false and improper driving licences. We have to do something about this. This is dangerous, and we have to do everything we can to fix it. Then we have to have both good rules and good practice in place, and perhaps we have to ask the question: are we really strict enough in Norway? Is it too easy to avoid, should we be even more stringent on fines, withdrawals and prohibitions, and should any new measures be considered? Foreign companies should understand that you come here and are poorly protected for Norwegian leaders, and there will be reactions. You shouldn't be able to gamble with the fact that we either don't get stopped or that if we stop first, the reactions will be so few that we can live with them. And if we don't stop, then we can gamble that it's going to go well over the mountain anyway. I also look forward to the important work of co-ordinating, creating better cooperation between police, customs and road transport, and we need to strengthen controls. I believe it has to be that if you come to the Norwegian border and are poorly protected, it must be presumptuously likely that you will be taken. And that must sting! You have to realize that you're being taken, that's going to sting. It has been mentioned earlier that we are now seeing more and more goods going from track to road, and the numbers that have been provided by the industries show that this is just going to continue; we are going to get more and more heavy transport on the roads. It is therefore important that the Norwegian rail system is provided with the means necessary to prevent further deterioration and the maintenance must be in place. The industry must be able to trust that the track is safe, and we must get as much goods as possible on the track and at sea. Here, the budgetary agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government has shown that much more will be done, but in the years to come, we need to strengthen this effort. The government can count on Left’s support to ensure Norwegian drivers against irresponsible trailer drivers who come to Norwegian roads and are completely unprepared in Norwegian winter driving, but we also need to assess new measures and assess whether to be even more stringent and follow up these controls further. So the left is going to be a constructive partner for the government, and I thank you again for putting this important issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e704	The Council of State opened up by saying that people should be safe when they run on the Norwegian road, and I very much agree with the Council of State. Unfortunately, 2013 showed a reverse trend of what it has been in recent years. Winter maintenance and smooth-going trailers are one of the major challenges, and many – both police, transport and many others – warn of cross-border and impracticable vehicle combinations. And these are drivers that have barely run on snowflake. Those who warn each fall of the vehicle train problems they are afraid of will come – but hope not – in winter, they will unfortunately get right. The NRK could report that Norwegian road authorities this winter have checked three times as many vehicle combinations as before, a total of 37 000 vehicle combinations, and that was a depressing result: 10–15 pst. of the checked cars had serious faults and are missing, and foreign vehicle combinations are worst. There's a special deck that's the problem, there's worn-out decks, someone's on summer tires, and someone's actually running on with punctured decks. There have been many measures in this debate that can help, from having more transport on the road and refrigerating to our European roads, which have far too poor standards. The Minister would like to know about the E39 through the Sogn and Fjordane district, which has been given the dubious title: the country's worst tribal road standard. It is important for one to do something about such measures. At the same time, this is also a lot about how we align the legislation against the transport industry, and how to take care of the Norwegian transport industry. And there's no doubt that we need stricter cabotage rules, such as that. Finders and other countries have tried. The controls have become more numerous, and I think they need to be more stringent, and the reactions of the lawbreakers need to be more stringent. The punishments must be horrendous, so that one does not circumvent Norwegian law. Police, customs, Labour Inspectorate, Vegvesenet and others need to work together to get rid of unprofessional actors who make up both for road safety and the reputation of the industry. The red-green introduced the law on toll barges for heavy goods vehicles, and we have to end the fact that foreign vehicle trains do not make up for themselves when they are fined or need to be rescued. Therefore, we have to impose a toll bar, and we would like them to have paid in on such a piece, so that they can make up for themselves, and that one has the possibility to charge the fines. There must be consequences when a person commits a crime. This must be done. At the same time, I would like to stress that much has also been done to improve the situation: the absenteeist trademinister Marit Arnstad introduced the requirement that a vehicle over 3500 kg should have at least five millimetres of pattern depth also on trailers. Work on tightening cabotage rules and better controls was started. And the EU was challenged by its desire to liberalise cabotage regulations. The use of wheel locks is also important, so that one stops those who are controlled, so that they cannot actually proceed when the cars are not in executable mode. Finally, I have a question for the Minister, and it concerns the use of customs, which is present at all border crossings: is this actively used, and systematically used, so that one can reject a vehicle that should not run into the country, which is not in a legal, defensive state.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e723	I would like to start by thanking the Right and the chairman of the Transport Committee for also putting this matter on the agenda now, but I think it is a little strange that this matter is being raised, which is already on the agenda of the Stortinget. Even I, mentioned several times, had an interpellation in Stortinget already on 9 January with the same theme. An increasing number of trailers are causing great concern and are challenging traffic safety on our winter roads, many of which are foreign trailers. Bad tyres, missing chains, inappropriate vehicles, lack of knowledge and too few checks create dangerous traffic situations. In the last month, we've seen a lot of examples of this, not least on the roads in Northern Ireland. This cannot continue like this. This can be seen in the context of a strong increase in non-resident carriers on Norwegian roads, which also exerts pressure on the pay and working conditions of Norwegian carriers. We have also seen several cases of social dumping in the industry. What does the Council of State do to prevent heavy vehicles from posing a traffic risk on Norwegian winter roads? If this sounded familiar, it is probably for those who have joined the debate, for this was my interpellation and my question to the Minister on 9 January. Shortly after that, on 16 January, I, together with seven others from the Workers' Party, submitted a proposal for a representative on the introduction of new measures against social dumping and crime in the transport sector, where road safety was also one of several important objectives, and the proposal contained as well as known ten concrete proposals for action. Today this is being discussed in the Committee, so this is probably well known for today's interpellant, Hofstad Helleland, who is the chairman of this committee. Unfortunately, the number of road fatalities continues to increase. In 2012, it was 145, in 2013 it was 187, and in the first two months of 2014 it is actually 26 – which is once again an increase from 2013. As I said when we had the interpellation debate, I am pleased that the Council of State has put this on the agenda, and has taken action, and I am also pleased that the Right now is doing the same thing. But I have to say that I am a little stated when the representatives – especially the representative of Greece and Steffensen – try to ask the question as to why the Workers' Party did not do anything when they were in government. Then you have not followed in the hour, because that is how you have done it, you have made new demands on equipment. New measures have been put in place in relation to chain, deck and increased number of checks, and a separate group has been set up to look at cabotage and to present their work in March. The government implemented Action Plan 3 as late as 7 May last year, which is aimed at tackling social dumping. As late as last summer–harvest, the Labour Party presented seven new, concrete actions now contained in the ten-point proposals. We also introduced AutoPASS systems requiring tiles for cars weighing more than 3.5 tonnes, and we are just waiting for them to be phased in. It is commendable that the Minister has focused on this, but it is not the Minister alone who has made it an increase in the number of controls. It is not the money alone that has done it, even if it is important. It has happened because there has been an increased focus on it. It was from the previous government, and it's from the new government, and not least has the drag that has been from the UP, the media and us politicians, made it become an increased focus on this. What's good about this is that I feel confident that there is now a great deal of consensus in the Stortingen to implement both new and aggravating measures, which promises good for the Document 8 proposal that will soon be dealt with in Stortinget. As I said, there are several of the measures that the Minister has also been involved in today, which have already been taken by the government. That's good. I'm also very excited about cabotage. It was also mentioned by several people here. There we could do incisions like the ones Finland has done, and I expect us to do so in Norway too. It doesn't have to change the rules to do that. It is also gratifying to hear about a new measure, which has not been mentioned before: automatic reading of signs. It is gratifying that the Progress Party will now take action alongside privacy. And it just surprises me even more that you're waiting for another important traffic safety measure: the route ATK. The progress party says that it has to be further investigated and will not be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e751	I would first of all like to thank you for what I think is an important interpellation, and for a good response from the Minister, who shows that we have received a government that will address the challenges in a good way. In fact, a major challenge in the field of transport is this: to ensure that everyone can travel in a safe local environment. We have a duty to ensure that drivers, cyclists and wanderers can travel safely and freely on our roads every day. Nevertheless, more than 200 people die in traffic each year. Over 1,000 people are seriously injured. This happens despite the targeted grip that could make Norwegian road safer. The annual costs associated with traffic accidents are enormous. Why, then, did not the red-green more targeted and good grip to achieve our common vision of road safety? Today it is said in the Evening Post that they themselves say that it turns out that they did not do enough. In that case, the political angle may not have fully benefited from road safety in recent years. Making this debate a social dumping issue is both illegitimate and unlikely. The article to the representative Christoffersen just shows that it was very necessary to deal with this matter today, so that we can get the discussion of road safety back on track and not make him an unsolicited social dumping discussion. We have a common vision, and we can strengthen our efforts to achieve the goal. Both the Committee Leader and the Minister for Transport have today shown that they are willing to address the challenges in a good way, with targeted action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e764	I want to thank you for a very good debate. I think there's been a lot of good input, and there's been a lot of good input, from a lot of parties, about what measures we can take to strengthen road safety work. I am not least pleased that we have a Minister of Transport who takes this so seriously and who is so offensive in his work. I am also pleased that we are discussing what we can do on the part of the authorities to strengthen road safety work. I am glad that we often debate in Stortinget, and I was very happy when the representative Juvik promoted an interpellation in January. I'm going to be happy every time the Storting debates different aspects of traffic safety. I get a little worried when I hear some comments from this speaker who might make the debate a little bit difficult. I hope that all parties will contribute to strengthening road safety work, making roads safer and ensuring that heavy transport complies with the laws, regulations and conditions we impose as requirements. I also think it might be a little unfortunate that we make the whole road safety debate a question of social dumping. Social dumping is an important and serious issue, but for us in the transport committee, it cannot be the whole starting point. We have a responsibility to see many aspects of these challenges. The reason that the representatives of the Right were not present at the previous debate was because we had a meeting on the Emergency Network, where we were briefed on the tragic accident in the representative of the home state of Christoffersen, just at the same time. I hope it is not used against the Right-wing representatives again from this pulpit. It's this matter too important for. That is why, from the Right and the Government, we are very happy every time this is debated at Stortinget, because it is important that the road safety issue is anchored here, that we keep the pressure up, and that we have a Minister of Transport who is impatient. When the Labour Party boasts of the proposal put forward, it is interesting that during the eight years of power, perhaps two concrete measures were promoted: the creation of a working group and stricter requirements for winter tyres. I am pleased that we have a capable Minister of Transport who is impatient and who will take action to strengthen road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e781	I would like to thank both the inter-pellant and the Stortinget for a good debate. For me, this confirms that the government is on the right track as to what measures we are going to take, and that we have a reasonably overall increase behind us in the measures we want to take. I note that some red-green politicians are offended because the interpellant deals with a theme that one believes is also being discussed in the committee. I think it's good that the Storting takes that discussion, because there's a difference between social dumping and road safety. One cannot explain the increase in traffic-killed one experienced last year, with increased social dumping. It's a lot more complicated than that. There are hit points, yes, but that means there is one another, no, that is not the case. I am particularly pleased that so many red-green politicians are satisfied with the policy of the new government. There will be several checks along Norwegian roads because one has received a new government that prioritises this in both orders and appropriations to Vegvesenet. I am also pleased that the Center Party and SV, who have spent eight years in government, are now happy that the new government is working to get a winter driver's license in place. The previous government gave it up. We are working on it and have informed that we want to get something concrete from the Road Directorate on this. I am glad that someone supports us in getting us a wheel lock in place to hold cars back. The last government didn't. We look at Finland on the cabotage issue, and how they have addressed it there. We're inspired, but we're waiting for the results of the cabotage team – I thought the red-green parties were happy with that too, since they reduced it – but we're going to work fast on it when they get here pretty fast. Workers' party people are very concerned about who is taking the political initiatives. I find that when the red-green boasts of what they did in eight years, there are winter tyres – which were introduced only under the new government, but adopted under the previous – and the cabotage group. It is very interesting that the Labour Party, as soon as they are in opposition, suddenly has ten concrete measures – not just the two that they have implemented. But let me briefly mention what this government is doing, because we don't have time to wait for all the Workers' Party to do suddenly in opposition. First of all, we are taking the initiative of the European Commission to be in the forefront of legislative work. It didn't happen under the red-green government. We are working on increasing control activities, getting wheel locks in place, for stronger detention rights for non-paying cars, putting in place winter tyres on trailers, several parking places and daily checks at borders, putting in place daily rest places with operators and electronic control equipment – to avoid paperwork and to investigate vehicles, for example. check that the brakes are red-hot. We are working on better interaction between the control bodies – we have already had a meeting between the police, customs and road authorities – and to clarify the law on who does what. Hopefully, they can all do anything. We are working on getting winter driving licenses and skill requirements, online checking of fake driving licences and safe trailer. These are things that happen because we've got a new government, and I'm very proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e796	The debate on case No. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e812	I have raised questions in the Storting on a few occasions about the development of private ownership. A diverse, strong, varied and scattered private ownership is a central building block for Norway’s future well-being. There are many aspects to this debate. It intervenes in the spread of power, in value creation, in district policy, and not least in what kind of jobs and what kind of development we are going to have in the Norwegian society in the future. I believe that it is short and well central to the development of knowledge-based Norway. Nevertheless, it is not often the debate that is being raised and centralized in the debates of the Grand Duchy. Do we take a well-developed private ownership too much for granted? I'm serious. The reason for this interpellation was also a look-up at the Evening Post, where it was found that more people have confidence in the family farms than in other farms. At the same time, a report from researchers at BI, where family businesses and ownership in these companies were the topic, shows that family businesses represent stability and long-term sustainability and have a ownership that creates large values and many jobs, and have higher returns than other enterprises. As is natural, family businesses have a more concentrated ownership than other enterprises, and they also have a different risk profile of their investments than enterprises with a different ownership. It was also shown that the higher rate of return could be due to the fact that capital was a critical minimum factor in terms of the types of projects in which these companies could engage. Families often receive both labour income from and have all their capital or wealth associated with the company's cash flow. In other words, these companies and their owners are heavily taxed, and they have a clear adverse effect on ownership that should be stimulated if they want strong private ownership in Norway. The subsequent announcement by the evening post that low-tax municipalities were the municipalities that would lose the most on the removal of the property tax was therefore a completely logical flaw for me. The map, which was shown at the same time as the notice, was well consistent with the areas of the country where private ownership is weak. One could rather say that these municipalities come out badly because they lack a private ownership that has the strength and power to drive new jobs. Family businesses are just one example of ownership structure in Norwegian business. They are part of diversity, and this interpellation shall focus on the need to stimulate private ownership on a broad basis. There are many reasons to focus on private ownership. Nordics save in housing and cabins, while saving in value-creating businesses is very weak. This, I think, weakens our basic understanding of business and what is needed to create the jobs of the future. It is important to change the course, which I am sure the Council of State will join. One can, if one is studying the development of Oslo Børs, get the impression that private ownership is almost wiped out in Norway. Of the company values of Oslo Børs, only approx. 4 pst. owned by individuals. This proportion has been in continuous decline over the past 10–15 years. At Oslo Børs, the state and foreigners dominate. The proportion of foreigners fluctuates around a third, while the country has doubled in the last ten years and now also fluctuates around a third. Much indicates that the value added tax has the effect you could expect. The ownership is concentrated on those who do not pay such taxes. But Oslo Børs says, as the family companies illustrate, far from anything about Norwegian business. The unlisted ownership, in the sense that the companies are not on the stock exchange, is easy to forget, but is nevertheless absolutely central. Non-listed companies in Norway have accumulated approximately four times as high incomes as listed companies, they employ almost four times as many and hold about twice as many assets. Øyvind Bøhren, professor at BI, has done a lot of interesting work on this. The findings of his studies also suggest that the marginal return on real investment is higher among non-listed companies than for listed companies, and that is probably where we find the reason why SPU has an interest in entering non-listed shares. The Nordics are innovative, and we're good at starting businesses. Studies show that we are high in gas companies, but we are weak when it comes to developing them into major international actors. This has to do with weak equity markets and lack of diverse ownership environments. The spread of power that lies in the aim of a spread and strengthened private ownership is a very central point. If we do not maintain and further develop diverse and strong private capital and investor environments, it will weaken the opportunities to develop jobs, especially in districts, but generally throughout Norway. Local, small investors like to invest in their local environment and in businesses and jobs they know, and can follow. It shows research. Without these types of environments, very many jobs and small businesses in Norway will lack the capital they need for healthy development. Lack of focus on the meaning of diversity, the spread of power and the spread of decision-making environments is remarkable in a country with as widespread living and business as in Norway. A good illustration of this is the company Takeda Nycomed in Elverum in my home country, Hedmark. Despite profitability and rational production, the output of non-residents is reduced as part of a major restructuring. Former Minister of Industry Giske and the State reported passports to find solutions, and now employees have decided to take care of themselves. They raise capital and aim to build a new enterprise on the platform of competence they have. Road cover is another example of a large company in the Norwegian context, which has been making a very conscious effort for several years on the participation of employees. The company itself believes that it has produced clear results in terms of profitability, growth and, in particular, cohesion and a common understanding of the objectives, which are important for addressing the challenges that are to come. There is a lot of talk about the development of business clusters in Norway. It is agreed that the development of strong business clusters is an important part of developing competitiveness in a high-cost country such as Norway and in a world where knowledge environments become very central. On the other hand, there is little talk in Norway that competent and strong capital and ownership environments are a very important part of complete business clusters. I just don't think that state capital can take all the roles that a scattered and diverse ownership environment can do in a business cluster perspective. The Norwegian state is rich. The Norwegian state has and is going to have a large strategic ownership of some central companies in the foreseeable future. But when it comes to creating the business that will carry us and defend our welfare level into the future, the power of diversity must be given a vital importance. The government platform has many good intentions in this area. It recognises the importance of private ownership in a completely different way from that of the previous government. It is therefore nice, as opposed to previous years, to be able to address a theme where the Council of State and I have the same desire. I look forward to hearing input from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e840	The interpellant discusses an important topic, and I appreciate that the Stortinge discusses how we can strengthen private ownership in business. As the interpellant refers to, family businesses play a significant role in Norwegian business. This is not least reflected in BI’s article on family ownership. There may be different ways of defining family businesses, but it is natural to use private businesses where family members own at least 50 pst. of the shares. If we use this definition, an estimated two out of three Norwegian limited liability companies are family enterprises. In 2011, this represented around 72 000 enterprises. Family businesses are therefore a fundamental part of Norwegian private ownership. They contribute to employment across the country and create large values. The government recognises the important position these enterprises have in Norwegian business and will contribute to Norway's continued presence of a significant proportion of family-run enterprises. The government aims to strengthen private ownership, and our policies take into account how ownership in business is structured. A significant part of the life course of a family business is that it is the subject of a generation change. The inheritance fee represented a liquidity charge that allowed unnecessary obstacles to the continuation of family ownership. By removing the inheritance fee, Stortinget has strengthened the framework conditions for Norwegian family businesses. The government's policy is based on the creation of values before they are distributed. The objective of industrial policy is, therefore, to ensure maximum overall value creation in the Norwegian economy. Then we have to use our resources where they create greater value. Our value creation depends on the establishment, further development and operation of profitable businesses in Norway. It also means that unprofitable enterprises must be converted or, in the worst case, discontinued. We want owners who contribute to businesses having good ability to change and innovation. It is also important to have a diversity of owners. It provides good use of ownership skills and reduces risk. Businesses are undergoing different phases, which sets different requirements for owners. These are not necessarily the same ownership requirements for establishment as for operation, growth, conversion, sale and liquidation. Private ownership shall be the general rule in Norwegian business, and the government will contribute to strengthening private ownership. Our goal is to increase value creation and secure and good jobs. Therefore, our main task is to ensure a predictable economic policy and good framework conditions throughout the country. It is important for businesses, employees and owners, and it is also important for those who ensure the introduction of capital into business. It is worth working – saving and investing are also worthwhile. We have therefore reduced the personal and property taxes. The changes stimulate employment, saving and private ownership. It also contributes to investments in industrial activities in Norway, to entrepreneurship, and it facilitates generational shifts in family holdings. The government has therefore stepped up its work on tax changes. The Scheel Committee is looking at corporate taxation. In line with the promise of growth-enhancing tax relief and a lower level of taxation, the sample shall also submit a proposal for net tax reductions. We're simplifying. Establishments and owners shall use less resources for the reporting and follow-up of regulatory requirements. Simplification saves business time and money, and it benefits not least new and small businesses. We're betting on nutrient-oriented research. It gives businesses new knowledge, skills, technology and increased innovation. This is about facilitating maximum value creation in the future. That is why we have strengthened arrangements such as SkattenFUNN, User-led Innovation Arenas and the NCE and GCE cluster programmes. Our goal is to contribute to increased entrepreneurship. That is why we should also facilitate more entrepreneurs. It is both about access to capital and about competence. We have a large state agency – among others. Research Council, Innovation Norway, SIVA, Investinor and Argentum. On the government side, we are concerned that the resources we use meet the most innovative and viable projects. That is why we need to review the instrument. The public is a big owner. The Government conducts a responsible state ownership policy. The country’s principles of good ownership are established. The division of responsibilities between the board and the owner is central. Clear objectives are set for ownership. It gives the companies and shareholders predictability. We cooperate with other shareholders on the election of candidates for central board of directors and choose candidates based on qualifications. We will seek to reduce the direct ownership of the state in Norway to ensure the spread of power and to strengthen private ownership. We are therefore now working with an ownership message, which we hope to present to Stortinget before the holiday. Norwegian industry has also benefited from foreign capital and competence for decades. That foreign companies want to invest in Norway is therefore positive. This shows that Norwegian workers, owners and industry are competitive. Norwegian enterprises provide goods and services as demand on the market. I would therefore have been more concerned if foreign companies had not been willing to invest and invest in Norwegian business. It should also be attractive for foreign investors to invest here. Let me sum up: we have active and diverse ownership in Norway. Family-owned enterprises form an important part of Norwegian business. The government is working to strengthen private ownership. Among other things, we have important actions, such as growth-enhancing tax relief, simplification and strengthening of industrial research. It facilitates high levels of employment, safe jobs and increased value creation, which in turn form the basis for good welfare services, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e880	It is not surprising that there is a great deal of consensus between the Council of State and me that offensive policies are now being pursued to strengthen private ownership. We are pleased to record that the inheritance tax is gone, and that it is focused on research and development – the kind of thing – that can make us create more, before we start to distribute more. The corporation tax was the government council's inside. We know that internationally there is now a movement in a steep downward direction. There are, of course, limits on how far you can go, but the investigative work that is going on is important in this context. I would also like to say here that very many places in the world are now fighting to attract the really heavy environments of innovation and innovation. Therefore, it is very good that the Council of State signals that Norway is aware of what is happening around you. There is no disagreement that foreign capital is very good. There is a sign of strength for Norwegian society that foreigners are interested in investing in Norway. Something else would be very sad. But the question here is to make Norwegian environments competitive with the foreign environments, and also to see that capital is actually an input that must be owned by some and followed up by competence, so that it is directed towards future value creation in a constructive way. That's the point of the interpellation. I think that the debate often reflects that we have easy to forget about it there. We take it for granted, even though the statistics show that the private part of the capital environment is extremely weak. I have to say that for my own family I see it as perhaps the greatest weakness, and the biggest challenge is just how to build up some private environments that are willing to take responsibility for also developing value creation in my home country. We have made it easy to sit down and wait for the state and others from outside to come and solve the problem. I think that was the very core of the map I referred to in the Evening Post lookup, and it was very consistent with where a missing just those capital environments. I look forward to the further debate, but at least I am reassured that the Council of State is fully focused on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e898	Thank you to the interpellant, who is raising an important debate on how we get a good business development for establishing private, family-run businesses, and that there will also be developments in existing private enterprises. From the Workers' Party's point of view, it is very important for the government to pursue an active industrial policy. In this context, I would like to point out that the active industrial policy of the Stoltenberg government resulted in the establishment of 350 000 new jobs during the period and two thirds coming from the private sector. Thus, in a period when Europe had the biggest recession in the economy in several generations, Norway has had good economic growth and a sharp increase in the number of jobs. It shows that our industrial policy has produced good results. We in the Workers' Party agree with the interpellant that family-run enterprises play an important role in value creation and employment. We are engaged in an active, diverse ownership, both private and public. A diversity of owners is important given that different industries and different phases of the life cycle of an enterprise tend to impose different requirements on owners and their skills, knowledge, networks and risk ability and will. We also see that much of the spin-off for entrepreneurs and family-owned businesses takes place on the basis of the large state-owned and privately owned locomotive companies. The many small and medium-sized enterprises we have around the country account for about two thirds of employment and over half of business turnover. Private owners and family businesses are in many ways the bearer of our business. We are concerned that we need to focus on targeted food policy instruments that can stimulate economic development and business start-ups. That is why, among other things, we are betting. to facilitate financing through industrial policy instruments, in particular Innovation Norway, SIVA; Investinor and also seed. I feel that this government is going a little opposite by cutting the tools, by making them more general and nutritionally neutral and also geographically neutral. In this context, I would just like to mention a cut in regional development funds, which have helped many entrepreneurs and family-run businesses. We see that the government's proposal to cut the inheritance tax will increase the tax burden for individual companies if the depreciation basis is not adjusted. These are also family businesses. In this context, the new proposal to extend the period of leave may also be mentioned, which will probably burden many of the same companies. I would also like to mention that the EU Horizon 2020 programme is a research and innovation programme aimed at creating a competitive business. The majority shall go to small and medium-sized enterprises. Here is Norway participating. Many of these are family ideas, and the government chose not to join the EU COSME programme in the budget. The Minister's answer was that this was a new programme. However, this is a tool for the EU that is targeted specifically at small and medium-sized enterprises. Horizon 2020 and COSME complement each other by helping businesses in a growth phase. On a study trip that I had to go to Brussels, the importance of Norway's participation from regional offices was underlined. It would be a vitamin injection for small and medium-sized enterprises, and many of these are, as I said, family ideas. So I would like to ask: does the Council not see that participation in the COSME programme will strengthen the family-run businesses, and will she look at this again?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e911	I would like to begin by thanking my colleague, Mr Gundersen, for addressing this important issue, as well as for his and the Council of State input into the debate. I agree with the importance and need for private ownership in Norway, and that there has been little room in the political debate that has been held in recent years. This may be because it's been taken for granted, but I think we should be very careful to take it for granted. Nor do I feel that the Council of State or the Government is doing so. The representative Gundersen spoke about Norwegian competitiveness, which was also one of the most important issues in the election campaign. Last week, this was updated again when the governor used his year’s year to record an increase in the gap between productivity growth and wage growth in Norway. The larger this gap becomes, the more weakening the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. Therefore, ensuring that enterprises with private ownership have good framework conditions to operate will be crucial in the future to help close this gap. We have several examples of Norwegian family-owned enterprises which, in competition with foreign-owned enterprises, have lower conditions of competition as a result of the peculiar wealth tax. From my home country of Hordaland, I can mention several businesses, for example. Hansa, who is a Norwegian citizen and pays taxes on wealth, while the largest competitor in Norway is a foreigner and does not. In this context, I do not believe that foreign ownership in Norway is a threat to Norwegian business – which was also addressed by the Council of State – but when the conditions of competition become so different, it is clear that this could affect competitiveness. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the wealth tax has already been significantly reduced for 2014. At the same time, it is vital that we do not put other obstacles in the way of those who want to innovate and develop their businesses. I would like to give a brief example from the United States, which is the film camera used by Peter Jackson in filming, among other things. ‘The Hobbit’, which is currently on cinema. A comrade looked at the camera market, at the fact that development was terribly slow. He believed that the large camera manufacturers were deliberately slowing down development, so that they would launch their products and technology a little after a while to get the most out of both the consumer and industrial markets. Downstairs, who incidentally was a wealthy founder and founder of the famous brand Oakley, looked at this as a problem he could do anything with. With his private capital he developed and launched a camera that had the best technology available, but the other manufacturers didn't want to deliver for many years. In addition, he launched it at a fraction of the price, adding all production to the United States today — unlike the others, who have added it to Asia. This concrete example shows that access to private capital has helped lower costs and deliver innovative solutions to a market, while creating more jobs. Sound competition and innovation prove to be possible in a market where there is access to risk capital and where it does not lose itself to make bold investments. I believe that, as politicians, we should facilitate such innovation and that there should be room for it in Norway. When Norwegian companies develop technology, it shall not be on fiscal policy that there is no capital available to launch it. Where Norwegian enterprises wish to invest to secure the enterprise and its employees, the assets of the enterprise shall not be taxed so heavily that it is not profitable to make the necessary investments. The research, which the representative Gundersen draws from BI, shows that family-run enterprises are more profitable than other enterprises. Private ownership and capital in Norwegian enterprises will continue to play an important role in Norway, but we will not take it for granted. It is very gratifying to hear that the Council of State wants to strengthen the conditions of private ownership, and that she refers to as many concrete measures as she is working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e930	I would like to thank the interpellant, who addresses an important topic. It is that three-quarters of Norwegian enterprises are owned by families. Where new enterprises on average create approx. two jobs, studies carried out by the European Commission show that successful ownership shifts in small family businesses lead to an average of five jobs being continued. Then the focus is on a smooth change of ownership. It has been important for the Christian People's Party for a long time. An example of the opposite of a smooth transition has just been the inheritance fee. The inheritance tax has led to the fact that capital, which could have been used to strengthen, secure and further develop enterprises and jobs, has instead been paid in to the State and thus contributed to the opposite: it has created financial burdens and risks of generation change. Therefore, it is good that the cooperation parties Left, Christian People's Party and the government parties have managed to remove the inheritance fee. At the same time, it is important for the Christian People's Party to stress the need for a broad review, which the government is now making of the changes that were adopted in the inheritance tax from the turn of the year, so that we do not get negative effects from anything that would initially be positive. That is what was meant: to improve the framework conditions for everyone by removing the inheritance fee. I am very pleased that the Council of State in its contribution is occupied by entrepreneurs – entrepreneurs with competence and capital. It is that we should set ourselves the goal, the Christian People's Party, that we should be the world's most innovative country. Then new and newly established small businesses are at the heart of the process. So the Council of State has the support of the Christian People's Party to invest in competence and capital in this sector. Reduction in taxes on wealth is also important in relation to what we are now discussing. We know that the wealth tax weakens private and active ownership, drains family businesses for capital, and hampers entrepreneurial activity and innovation. There is no other country where the taxes on wealth are as low as ours, and we have poor protection systems for working capital. That's why the Christian People's Party, like the government, the Left, the Lo, the League of Bonds, the Shipowner's Association, just to name someone, wants a protection for working capital in terms of wealth taxation. We think it is an important tool precisely what the interpellant deals with about framework conditions for value creation, in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e943	I would like to thank the interpellant for an interpellant with an interesting theme. I want to emphasize at the beginning that what I think is one of the most important and most valuable things about the Norwegian business community is the breadth of ownership – everything from the smart business venture to the individual person enterprise, from the AS to the family-owned companies, the listed companies and state companies. They've filled each other in many ways. Many of the main locomotives in Norwegian business have been state-owned, whole-time or partly owned. They have driven a development and a transformation in many areas, while also providing ground for a number of private and family-run businesses, which have come into the wake of the major locomotives. The offshore industry is a typical example of this, both in the transition from the maritime industry and the shipping industry to offshore, but also in the ability of Statoil and the state-owned companies to drive innovation and technology, as well as to attract new private and family-owned businesses. There has been a strength in the Norwegian business community, it is still and should be in the future. The centre party looks at family-run businesses as a very important part of this Norwegian flora of business. There are many advantages that you can see in your family business. There is often a short decision-making path in these companies, and there is often a high level of security and stability in the business. There is also a great degree of loyalty both to what one does and what the company does, but also to the community around it. There is often a high degree of long-termity in decisions taken in family-run enterprises. Then there are also some challenges related to the family-run businesses. There are questions that can sometimes be asked whether the will to change is as great as in some other companies, whether one is able and willing to do the strategic measures at the times it is necessary, and also whether one has the professionalism of management and management that one has in other parts of the business. There are interesting questions, which also deserve attention from the family-run enterprises. But there are often more exciting companies, also because they are driven by more than just quarterly results, by which the listed companies operate. I'm familiar with the study that BI did. It documents that family-run enterprises represent a significant proportion of business, whether you count it by number of employees or by turnover. It also refers to the dense link between ownership and management and the benefits and disadvantages it represents. They may point in particular to two disadvantages that family-run businesses have, and one has come up well here, namely that most of them are not listed on the stock market, meaning that they have a weak access to capital, and that there is a challenge related to business and profitability at last. A large part of the report is not about that. A large part of the report is also about the disadvantages and challenges inherent in ownership and management and what it also means for the profitability of these businesses. It is a problem that also deserves attention in the middle of all the discussion we might otherwise have about both property taxes and inheritance taxes. Then the report also shows a few other things that are interesting from the empirical community that are not only Norwegian but also international, and that in the case of entrepreneurs, the presence of an active founder in management and in the management of a company is also important related to the issues of profitability in the companies. Then it also shows that family-run businesses often struggle when the first generation is gone, and one is going to continue the business. That's a vulnerable point for many of the family-run companies. I think this debate has highlighted a number of important things. I think it would be a pity if one made a debate about the further development of family businesses to just a question about what tax you pay. I believe that the BI report that the interpellant refers to in his interpellant, just raising his eyes beyond that question, indicates that capital access is important, yes, but that there are also many other important things that are necessary and that are vulnerable to the question of further developing the family business as a form of ownership in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e966	I very much agree with the interpellant Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen on the subject addressed here, and it refers to. And it's very good to get the lighting and clarification that that's the way it is. When the Minister of Industry then comes up and answers that the government's medicine in the future is that you should sell yourself into state enterprises, and that you should also welcome foreign investors, foreign capital, then I start to shake a little bit, because I don't think that's right. Norway is a rich country. We don't need money. We lack stability. We need someone who can go into the workplace – and keep them. It shouldn't be an arena to make money on. We who have a history in family businesses, we don't drive them to make money. We run them because there's to be stability and a perspective for the municipalities and the places we live and where we're going to continue living and living. That stability – also for the incomes of the municipalities, the county and the state – is important for creating a life there. Foreign investors think quite differently. And in these days when the fish are flowing down the country, and even in the square outside the Stortinge, there are attitudes and opinions about fish, I want to point out the story, for example. in Finnland in the fisheries sector. There are several foreign investors who have been in the fishing industry for a short time to make money there. They've been the most unstable. There hasn't been anything good for society. They are the ones that are locally owned, which is stability. They are the ones that stand for the future, and they are the ones we can trust. That's what's important here, and that's what's fundamental to family-run businesses. And why is it going well? Well, that's because we live in the local area, and we're stability and the future. Now I'm not going to make any suggestions about it, but really economic speculation in the workplace should be banned. It just creates insecurity, and that's not what the municipalities and county council, the people and the workers need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e977	First of all, I want to give praise to the interpellant to bring up this theme. Family businesses are many places also corner stone companies in their communities, and if I get permission, I'd rather say that at least I have some knowledge and knowledge of the topic. I have been so lucky that I have managed to establish, build and run a family business. I have to admit that I am not surprised by the positive findings that BI refers to in his study in terms of profitability and higher value creation per kr invested. For really that's the Norwegian model we see, maybe in micro, but the proximity between owners and employees in the communities is crucial. And this has happened despite both property taxes and inheritance taxes for many years. Therefore, I must admit that I had hoped that this debate would be wider and more than the subject of tax. For example, how can you acquire more knowledge about these enterprises, acquire more research to gain even more depth? Similarly, it would be equally interesting to look at the relationship between family businesses and head-shooting in other activities in local settings. That's where I think it's actually going to be very much positive. When I talk to owners and others in family businesses – or for that matter also in small and medium-sized enterprises that are not family businesses – about the challenges they face in everyday life, it is exceptional that property taxes and inheritance taxes come up as point one and two. It's going to be a long way down on the list. And I know a lot about that theme too. What very often comes first is all the work it will be if they have to be in contact with Nav, and the form field and the practice that is there. Transport knows we're getting very high on the list, and completing forms in general, these companies seem to be somewhat dubious. Very many coastal family businesses carry out export-oriented activities. For them, the price and the level of interest also mean far, far more than property taxes and inheritance taxes. So that means that economic policy – the use of oil money – is crucial for these businesses. Many of these holdings are located in the districts. When I was establishing the family business that I came from a very long time ago, I was asked by the representatives of the municipality: What can we do for you – in an early stage of establishment and operation? My answer then was kindergarten and school in the village. Unfortunately, that is the answer I should have given today, too, if I was asked. With high-end school and kindergarten only four days a week, it is difficult to be business owners to attract young people to work in the company. So that means that good municipal economy is very important for these family businesses and other businesses in the districts. Entrepreneurship in schools and education is another important topic. The representative Arnstad was about this with a generation change. I don't have the overall picture today, but it can be a challenge in many places, and then unfortunately I'm afraid that it's not just the inheritance fee that's the challenge. It's just this culture, that attitude, that of facilitating the next generation. There may be a little bit of hope from a government that, no matter what the question is, answers: tax laws. But I believe that both family businesses and all other businesses will benefit from expanding this debate. Then I also record that the interpellant indicates that the reason Oslo Børs is largely publicly owned is the property tax. I'm afraid that's a little too simple. I would like to have a broader knowledge of that too. I'm recording that the Minister of Industry is going to reduce state ownership. Without more knowledge and no more background, I'm afraid that will lead to Oslo Stock Exchange becoming an even bigger foreign exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1001	It seemed for a while that this discussion would be an exchange of love among the Right People, but fortunately there was a greater breadth in this important debate than that. As the interpellant had in mind, the proportion of personal equity values on Oslo Stock Exchange has fallen sharply in the last 25 years. In 1990 private, individual investors directly owned 12.9 p.m. of the share values, and at the latest year-end this was less than 4 pst. Had not the Willoch government introduced a discounted solution for the sale of shares to own employees in enterprises, the development of this direct personal ownership would undoubtedly have been even lower. Fortunately, private investment in unit trusts has increased and today represents 6.8 pst. of these values versus 3.1 pst. in 1990. Fortunately, improved mechanisms to stimulate employee participation have also been announced. It's high time, after literally enough years of red light, for improvements in these arrangements. So, of course, the question can be asked: does it matter that personal investment in Norwegian business is failing if business can raise enough capital from other sources, either public or private, institutional investors? In the right we are not in doubt that the answer to this is yes. There have already been several reasons in this debate to stimulate increased private ownership, and I am not going to spend time repeating these, but there are still some arguments that I do not think are sufficiently clear. Firstly, it is desirable that as much as possible in this country have the best possible understanding of the relationship between the value creation in Norwegian business and our well-being. Owning a family business, individual shares or shares via a unit trust undoubtedly contributes to increasing the commitment that we pursue a long-term, sound economic policy, such as: contributes to a reasonable return on our risk investments. It is therefore also beneficial that more and more people have part of their own pension rights linked to the development of the share market. Over time, this will result in a favourable attitude side-effect of these defined contribution plans. Therefore, the self-employment co-ownership arrangements should also be improved, as announced. Secondly, it is desirable that a greater proportion of private savings take different ways than what can be called consumer-oriented savings in terms of more and larger cabins and houses. There is some form of social solidarity in the fact that those who have reached an acceptable or generally good standard of living make risk capital available for innovation and job security. Of course, we are better off doing this when the framework conditions for such saving become more competitive, among other things. by means of lower taxes on wealth. Thirdly, the State should not, and over time will not be, such a dominant player in the venture capital market as it is today. There are good times when we need to lay the groundwork for establishing adequate alternatives to ensure Norwegian business risk capital, even at times that are considerably more stringent than what we see today. Therefore, the comments and signals of the Council of State in this timely debate are important and very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1018	I traveled the interpellation because this is a theme that I expect we don't get much help from the opposition to travel. I think it's absolutely central to value creation. I think it's been a very interesting debate, because everyone seems to recognise the importance of local private ownership. The Swedish population even said that you live in the local area you invest in, and that is very important. The same lines spoke Berg-Hansen and also Marit Arnstad around. I'm happy to hear that, but at the same time, I think the Storting must admit that it is the ownership that is actually discriminated against when you have imposed a tax that has no other ownership. I think you might find a whole new track when it comes to, among other things. district policy, if it was acknowledged that it might not be very sensible to discriminate precisely against the ownership that everyone in this room is now standing here and saying is hugely central to developing Norway and developing value creation across the country. Then to Berg-Hansen. Of course, there are many other things that show up that are important; trade, exchange rate and everything. Markets have also accepted what this government has done. But I would like to point out that the NHO says very clearly that there was a wealth tax and, in the past, also the inheritance tax that was at the top of the priority list for what the companies thought hindered their participation, also in the case of head shooting and other things. If what the BI report shows, it's that capital is a shortcoming considering what many of these companies want to be involved in developing. I believe, as the last speaker too, that it is in good times that we must build readiness for the weaker times. Norway has had a fantastic journey over the last 10–15 years, with a tremendous improvement in our trading relationship with the rest of the world. There's a lot of success. It can turn around very quickly, and then it's about focusing on that we actually need to have a strong private ownership. That's exactly what I wanted to focus on. Norway is a rich country, as was said in the debate here, but it is quite divided. We have a very strong state, but if we look at and compare with much of the rest of Europe and the rest of the world, we have a rather weak private sector. I think that might be quite critical of meeting the future. Thank you for the debate. I have been given a theme I believe is absolutely central, and I am pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1031	Thank you for a good and important debate. Private ownership is and shall be the general rule in Norwegian business. So that's how the state is a significant owner and is still going to be a significant owner, even though we've been notified by the government that we're going to strengthen private ownership. We do that because it gives diversity, it gives spread of power and it gives competence. So we're going to do it in a wise way. We have a great responsibility for that. The representative of Omland was concerned with the positive growth of Norwegian industry in the number of persons employed, including through difficult times. That's right, but it's also part of the story that we could meet the financial crisis in a completely different way from any other country. We're very lucky. Then I must also be very clear that it is not cut into instruments related to nutrient research, over the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. On the contrary, there has been a significant increase in the bet on the BIA, the FUNN and the cluster programmes by this government. Horizon 2020 is Norway in. We're not in the COSME program. The precursor to COSME, a programme called CIP, had limited use of Norwegian business, and that was the background to the government’s decision. But there's an assessment we're doing continuously, and we can join, if we want to. The representative Heimdal was in the work that is now being done to look at the effects of tax changes. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for this. I'm not going to go into that, but I'm just going to say that we fully agree with the ambitions we need to be an association. Norway has all the prerequisites for that. The representative Arnstad was about the fact that ownership and family ownership have different challenges. I very much agree with that, and we have to be able to see that. It confirms that good industrial policy is the sum of many different measures. The representative of Ingebrichtsen and I probably disagree on much about ownership. I guess I can just say that not all ownership is good ownership, no matter who owns it. We have a lot of examples of that. Then I obviously meet a completely different business every day than the representative of Berg-Hansen does. Everyone I talk to, no matter where in the country they are, is talking about tax regimes, they're talking about simplification, they're talking about the need for technology development and innovation. Then they're also talking about the crown course, the hub, the apprentice policy and a number of things, but at the top of the list, the things the government is now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1050	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1064	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1078	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1092	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1098	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1118	In Case No: 2–4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1125	Case No. 5–7 are the second time legal proceedings. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-04.ana.ud550e1222	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
