ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e35	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Per Almar Aas died on 18 May 2014, near 85 years old. He represented the Christian People's Party of Troms from 1973 to 1989. Per Almar Aas was born in Ballangen in Northernland, where his parents had a small farm. As so many others in his generation and with his background he began early in working life, while he read up and gradually took education as a teacher. In 1959, 30 years old, he started as a teacher and eventually became a school principal and principal. In 1967 he was elected to the City Council of Harstad for the Christian People's Party, and in 1969 he was the first alternate to the Stortinget from Troms – elected on a common list with the Center Party. In 1973 he was selected in a fixed place. In 1981, Per Aas felt a little nervous that there had to be a re-election in Troms because of errors that had been made in the count. The re-election, however, ensured his mandate with a far greater margin than the ordinary elections. Per Aas was a member of the Transport Committee throughout his life, which made him an experienced politician in this field. He was a birth aid for a lack of a road and bridge project. At the same time, he was not afield politician. He was a colorful politician who took an active part in the various debates in the national Parliament. He often had a striking and good line, especially when the debate went to the end. For many years he also carried out the whipping job in the wholesale group. In his time at Stortinget, Per Aas was also active in international bodies, such as the Interparliamentary Union and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Per Aas was also active in Christian organizational work – not least in the Santalmission. He also drove as an inventor, and got prizes for his good ideas. As a person he was attentive and attentive, and he was a person who was appreciated even when you disagreed with him. It is a warm man and a capable politician who has now left us. We shine peace over the good memory of Per Almar Aas. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e56	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Tom Cato Karlsen, has taken the seat. From representatives Elin Rodum Agdestein, Trond Giske, Oskar J. Grimstad, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Magne Rommetveit and Sveinung Stenland, applications for leave are available from 20 October until 14 November – all to attend the 69th General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the County of Buskerud: Gerd Eli Berge 20.10-13.11 For the county of Hordaland: Eigil Knutsen 21.10-13.11 For the county of More and Romesdal: Mette Hanekamhaug 21.10-13.11 For the county of Rogaland: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal 21.10-13.11 For the county of Nord-Trøndelag: Gunnar Viken 21.10-13.11 For the county of South-Trøndelag: Gunn Elin Flakne 20.10-13.11
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e122	The representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e125	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Tove Karoline Knutsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to approve Harstad Municipality's request to become a freetown for a persecuted musician.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e130	Janne Sjelmo Nordås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e133	On behalf of the representatives Kjersti Toppe, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for the creation of Rjukan specialist centres, tasks and funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e138	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e152	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e168	The formulation of ‘culture, holding and leadership’ has been used on many issues since the Gjørv Commission’s 2012 report. I see the need for a certain cross-political anchoring of how this can be understood, and how we can support it under it, both from the Storting and from the government's side. I want to make it a yearly debate, for culture, holding and leadership is nothing that can change from one year to another. It's about the long lines. All parties are thus invited to decide what they expect from the police, the Police Directorate and the Ministry of Justice on this issue. There are expectations that I think will be useful to all parties. In my opinion, a good preparedness culture is open, action-oriented, cooperative, knowledge-seeking and self-searching. A good preparedness culture means not to impose responsibility on others. A good preparedness culture takes responsibility and not only asks for leadership, but also exercises leadership itself, asking not only what others can do, but what each individual can do – alone and together. Organisational culture will not be attached, it will be created, formed and modified according to what is considered correct. Usually, these ideas are unspoken by sitting in the walls and being little discussed. It can be about the small things, like jargon and jokes, or things that have more profound meaning, such as what gives authority and not. For the sake of the word, it will be a patchwork of cultures within the scope of the concept of ‘prepared culture’ or ‘organisational culture’. Ordinary police are different from the emergency team, the operation leader is different from the police chief and the bureaucrats in the Police Directorate are different from the bureaucrats in the Justice Department. All workplaces have their cultures. In a Swedish doctoral thesis on the organisational culture of the police, the Swedish National Audit Office is quoted in this way: «There are police officers who question the management. They consider that the police management does not consist of real police officers, since they are police chief lawyers.’ There's one example of how there can be different cultures in one level. Culture can thus define what is important. However, culture is ‘common perceptions, ideas, traditions and norms to which they apply’. The definition comes from Edgar Schein, a recognized professor of organisational development. Organisational culture thus says something about what is expected and what is the success criterion at a workplace. Finn-Arild Bystrøm, who has been in charge of the police since 1999, wrote this year a master's thesis on how it is to be a new leader in the police. In the task, he points to coincidences and lack of strategy about the selection and follow-up of leaders in the Norwegian police force: Some become leaders because it's their turn, not because they're the best. So he's pointing to how unwritten success criteria reproduce themselves. There is an important paradox in this: the new leaders are recruited by the old cultural operators and by their experience-based criteria. At the same time, they are expected to further develop an established culture into which they are at the same time socialised. through the arbitraryness of the recruitment methods. In this way, it was refreshing to hear police officer Arne Jørgen Olafsen in Follo Police District earlier this year. Follo police districts have already undergone structural changes. Olafsen stated that they saw these changes as an opportunity to change the recruitment processes for leader selections as well. The mapping of the tenor characteristics of the current tenors, and more emphasis on them than, for example, those of the tenors in question. seniority. They broke up traditions, and they created systematics. They identified what made some better off than others to be leaders. According to Agenda Kaupang, which evaluated the conversions in Follo in 2012, both new leaders in the police district have been able to take on the role of professional – not administrative – leaders more than before, and leaders have been given more time to exercise leadership. I have expectations that the forthcoming police reform will provide a similar method of work – breaking traditions and arbitrariness, making selection processes more robust, defining what leaders expect, and not least providing support for those who will. No one becomes good leaders overnight. It is a skill that must be trained in line with shooting skills or the ability to lift heavy or run long. The Yard Commission never limits the discussion of culture, attitudes and leadership to the police. They wrote that this separated what worked, from what did not work, regardless of the total readiness. It is therefore also natural to mention the Health Inspectorate's report on the Ministry of Justice from earlier this year. They mention the relationship between the police department and the rescue and emergency services as so demanding that it could compromise the effectiveness and quality of the social security and preparedness work. There is no reason to believe that this kind of lack of interaction can also not reproduce downwards in the system and have major consequences. I expect from our future preparedness culture at all levels that he has good cooperation as an established success criterion, and that the Ministry of Justice itself must lead as a good example. Cooperation and interaction are already anchored in plans, but it must also be absorbed in the day-to-day functioning. Plans are, after all, only plans. Actions are actions only. When it comes to day-to-day cooperation at the workplace, I focus on dialogue skills and that leaders are good performance helpers for their employees. When it comes to the necessary co-operation between the naudetaties, I focus on mutual respect for each other's roles and close contact, even in the absence of disasters. It forms the basis for better interaction when it really is in debt. This is what we have to stand for – that it's not about being the best in the class, but about leading the best class, as Kristin Aga, elected to the Oslo Police Association, has come to the fore, that good leadership qualities should count more than professionally heavy CVs, as Hanne Kristin Rohde, who was the section leader in the Oslo police district, has drawn up, that people in the preparedness seats who practise openness, get respect, not criticism, as Torbjørn Aas, who was the police officer in the West-Finland police district, has taken up. Ove Sem, former Federal Secretary of the Association of Police, writes in the last Police Forum on the importance of development through collective and individual learning. He writes: ‘The redundancy to make mistakes will easily lead to poor mental preparedness, and the room for joint police reflection may quickly be absent due to a lack of security.’ I think that's right. We have to create the right room, where we say thank you for the job everyone who works with security and preparedness does. For these are people who have heads and hearts in the right place. But what we can also say is that this is going on now – not a flawless police force, but a police force that wants to learn from its mistakes, not a bureaucracy where each department is itself enough, but a bureaucracy that works across the board, not politicians that play political differences, but politicians who cooperate and pull in the same direction. Under the previous government, a number of initiatives were launched to create change for the better. Among other things, funds were already set up in 2012 for a change management programme in the Directorate of Police and the Ministry of Justice. Training was started on preparedness and crisis management for the Police College and the Defence College. New instructions were given for preparedness in 2012, for the rescue services in 2013 and for the Police Directorate and the Police Director, clarifying responsibilities, roles and tasks. There are also new leaders at different levels. I'm always happy when the Minister of Justice builds on previous government work. At the same time, it is interesting, certainly both for him and for others, to listen to what independent initiatives he will take in the work of culture, stagnation and leadership. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e204	Management, attitudes and culture in police and preparedness contexts have been under-focused for many years. That's why I find it inspiring that a former member of the government Stoltenberg II addresses this issue, when the interpellant himself has entered the opposition's ranks. It is important to raise discussions on leadership, culture and attitudes in order to ensure anchoring also in Parliament. That is why I would like to thank the representative, Tajik, for taking the initiative through this interview. However, I would like to point out that the government of Tajik had set up 54 main objectives and targets for the justice sector in its last submitted state budget – and management was not mentioned in one of them. Now this government and I have changed the whole target structure of the justice and preparedness field to give clearer priority and clearer leadership. In number, there are ten objectives, one of which is to improve management and a stronger management culture. As you can see, there is also a clear change in priorities from the previous government to the current one. Management is not just at the top of an organisation. Management is exercised at all stages, all the time. It is important to be safe in their management tasks and to have the necessary trust and room for management. Leadership takes place from police officers up and down. I'm actually saying it that way, because very often we confuse the management perspective with a pyramid from top to bottom. But management is performed in absolutely all stages of an organisation. Ensuring good leadership at all stages is a prerequisite for success in the important tasks we have in the area of social security and preparedness, and where the police are one of the most central actors. When the Gjørv Commission presented its report following the terrorist attack on Norway, it confirmed that there was a significant potential for improvement, in particular in terms of the police’s ability to lead, but also pointed out that the culture and attitudes they found in their work were not compatible with the expectations we as a society should have for the police. However, I would like to emphasise two things in this context, firstly that the conclusions were not an attack on those who worked in the building, but a strong call to think differently in the organisation Police, and secondly that the terms ‘management, culture and attitudes’ are quite diffuse, and contributing to change is a complex and diverse challenge. Police are in the process of making one of the biggest changes in the history of the building. In the next few years, we're going to build a better and more modern police force that works more efficiently, that's equipped to face the crime of the future, and that creates security where people live and travel most. The concept of culture is widely accepted and in many ways corresponds to a kind of exaggerated belief that changes can be implemented by technical and rational processes alone. A practical approach to the concept of ‘culture’ can therefore be described as the expression ‘the way we do things with ourselves’. It gives some kind of entrance to talk about culture as good or less good ways to solve police tasks. The diffi report, Evaluation of the Police Directorate, refers to the Directorate and parts of the department as being marked by a ‘conservative order culture and an even more conservative legal and bureaucracy culture’. Moving an entire organisation in a new direction cannot, in other words, be done through rational and instrumental measures alone. Culture and attitudes must be developed through dialogue, respect and action. It is also important to set as clear, clear and concrete a requirement as possible for the concrete changes to be made. The police are now setting up several arenas where employees and leaders meet to share experience and develop a common understanding of change, direction and concrete action. The aim is to create a common understanding of what we want with the police of the future, as a starting point for developing leadership, culture and attitudes. I would like to highlight some of the processes that are in progress to strengthen the team's capacity for interaction and implementation. In its evaluation of the Police Directorate, diffi emphasises the importance of the development of the Directorate to become ‘a real development, management and coordination body for the Norwegian police’. The Police Directorate must have the competence and resources to see contexts and to represent an overall picture, which is essential both as a starting point for the policy-making of the Ministry of Justice and Defence and for strategic choices in the management and management of the department. In order to fulfil this role, the Directorate has established a new organisational structure, where HR, ICT and preparedness have been raised at the strategic level. They're recruiting new leaders in 60 pst. of the posts. As a follow-up to the reorganisation in the Police Directorate, a broad range of development work has been undertaken, with a particular focus on governance, management, staffing and labour processes. This perspective is important both during crises and for ordinary operation. Clear management, control and coordination and clear roles and responsibilities are generally crucial. In many situations, well-developed risk recognition and enforcement can be crucial for success, especially in crisis management. Police have implemented a number of measures to strengthen preparedness. Staff and management development has been carried out, and several major and minor exercises have been carried out at national and local level, where this has been emphasised. Good day-to-day management is also characterised by a clear direction for the development of the establishment, and good change processes are ensured. A comprehensive management development programme is under way with a focus on developing a common understanding of the societal mission, of a coherent and holistic management practice and on raising individual awareness as a leader. The most important resource of the establishment is the people who work there. In order to ensure that the police are an attractive job that delivers good results, management must involve the development of good employeeship and competent staff. It also underpins the demands and expectations of the Police Directorate for the recruitment and development of leaders. The budget depends on motivated and skilled staff who contribute to the public service of the police. I think we now need to look at the leadership recruitment throughout the police and make the police attractive as a job, also for people with a different professional background than just the police or legal one. Management competence must be a qualification in itself. The Directorate of Police has also developed a staff platform based on core values such as respect, holistic orientation, courage and closeness to. It is presented to the police officers during the next few weeks. Own tools are provided to allow the corresponding process to be carried out locally. The Police Directorate has further developed its tools and processes for employee interviews — an important management task — and it is important to link each individual’s tasks, work plan and development plan more clearly to the police’s future needs for problem solving and competence. Training will be carried out in all parts of the police. The Police Directorate is also planning a major new employee survey in 2015, which will provide a good starting point for assessing how the situation is being experienced at that time. I am also very concerned that the Police Directorate should clarify and develop a clearer leadership. A lot has happened in the last year, and not least the experience of the terrorist threat this summer shows that we have a more forward-looking and clear police directorate. It's an important prerequisite for us to succeed in this work. The Police Directorate is further developing a clear role and division of responsibilities between the Directorate, the Special Bodies and the police districts. The Ministry of Justice and Defence, which has the overall responsibility for the management of the Police and Lone Civil Service Senate, has launched several development activities involving the organisation, management and culture of the Ministry. The Ministry has set up a new business strategy, new managers and employee criteria, a better governance system and a completely new target structure. Further efforts are now being made to further develop the management system in order to ensure that it supports effective task-solving and ensures the quality of the performance of the societal task. In this connection, the Ministry has, among other things: Intensified governance dialogue and continues its work through several direct meetings between top political management and the Heads of State or Government. It contributes to anchoring and short decision-making lines where necessary. We are also in the process of a comprehensive organisational development process – that is, the modern word for reorganisation – in order to strengthen social security and preparedness. The process should also improve coordination and interaction in this area. All management work in the department is anchored with the department's top management. It's done a lot, but it can do a lot more. The work on attitudes, culture and leadership is a work that must be carried out all the time. It must be like a premise when we develop our businesses further. It must be the focus of major and minor reforms, but it must be primarily part of our daily focus – constantly thinking about how we can get better, and how we can contribute to creating movement and leadership. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e246	I thank the Minister of Justice for the introductory answer. At an early stage as Minister of Justice, he said to a journalist that he wanted to be the critical friend of the police. In the spirit of the role clarification, I wonder whether the Minister of Justice can deepen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e251	I'll do that with the greatest joy. I believe that we are in a situation where we have experienced for years, especially after the terrorist attacks on Norway in 2011, that the police have been subjected to massive criticism. Much of that criticism has been well deserved, some of it has gone too far in some areas. I think, when we have a critical review of an agency's business, we also have to remember all the good work done in the police every single day. These are employees who go to work every day to secure and secure our lives. That's why it's important for me to contribute to that in the follow-up that we have of some of the criticisms, not only focuses on the negative, but also focuses on the positive. I am concerned that we should have a police officer who is proud to be a police officer, who is proud of the deliveries they have, and it is our job as politicians to facilitate the framework conditions for them to achieve that. It's this government going to do. Then you have to think completely, and then you have to think far ahead, at the same time you have to solve the challenges that lie ahead of us. So it's the way with good friends that they say from when things don't work properly, that they dare to be critical and point to areas that don't fit exactly into the vision of the future that we're going to have. That's what I mean by being the police critical friend. I want to be a real friend of the police in Norway, I want to be one who stands up for the Norwegian police. But I also want to be a government council that dares to say from when there are things that don't work, when it's necessary to make changes, when it's important to think differently. I think it's important for the Norwegian police to know that they have their government council in their backs. They do, and they need to know that they have a government council that is safe in the trust I have in the Norwegian police, for example. to dry out when there is potential for improvement. I believe that in the debates we are going to have on how the police will be in the future, we should never forget that we have a police force that delivers well in many areas. But there should never be a rest cushion up against delivering better. It's always so that we can do things even better. That's why I think it's great that we now have a debate in Stortinget on how to think management, culture and attitudes in practice. It's easy to talk about management, culture and attitudes as a problem without defining what the problem really is, and if you can't explain what the real problem is, it's very difficult to solve it as well. This is the job that both the Ministry of Justice and Security and the police themselves are in the process of materializing. We're turning these slightly diffuse terms into practical action. We think of leadership, attitude and culture in all the work that is now being done to improve the police of the future even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e260	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for putting a very important theme on the agenda, a theme that I know the leader of the Justice Committee is very busy. I am very pleased that we have to debate the police of the future and not just debate the quantitative objectives that we politicians often like. There are often many debates about how many police officers we have to have, how many police districts we have to have – things we can count. But as both the head of the Justice Committee and the Minister of Justice were involved, this is a complex and difficult theme, and also, I believe, something taboo. As the committee leader pointed out, Finn-Arild Bystrøm, who is also a member of my community, Tokke, has written a very interesting master's project on being a new leader in the police. This one's got a great deal of attention, and it's got a lot of interesting things. Through an interview with nine different new leaders from nine different police districts, there are three tasks from this master's project I would like to draw up in this debate. It turns out that there are too few formal tenants in the police. 75 pst. Norwegian police leaders do not have any form of leadership training. Police leaders lack basic understanding of how a culture arises or is formed, how it can be handled or changed, and how to use culture as part of an active leadership tool. Urban electricity also indicates that the hierarchical structure and ranking of the police are often an obstacle to creativity, real interaction and their involvement in their own everyday lives. In principle, those with a higher rank will always be right – even if one is wrong – by having a higher rank. I, like the committee leader, have great expectations that the forthcoming police reform will deal with this issue and will propose measures and methods that can address the challenges such as: The mast release to the Bystrøm shows. I think it must be important to assess better leadership training. There is a paradox that there are demands on the police about competence in research, hearing, running and shooting, but not when it comes to people in the organisation. It is positive that Bystrøm's investigation shows that many new leaders in the police see it as both positive and meaningful to work as leaders in the police, that they are happy to have the job and experience freedom. At the same time, we must note that new leaders in the police are lacking in follow-up. Bystrøm's task shows that none of the new leaders he interviewed were followed up as leaders. He indicated that there were few of the new leaders who knew what requirements were set for them, and that they were too little told what to do. It is not difficult to understand that it may be difficult to stand alone as a new leader in the police department. I mean, this is an area where it's important that the Minister of Justice notices. Future police are all about so much more than structure and organisational maps. It's about – I think we're a lot of people about – what the police are going to do, and what tools they're getting to solve them. I would also like to stress that a debate on the culture and leadership of the police is not about the fact that good leadership is not being exercised in the police or in other emergency services today. We have a lot of good examples of that. But we have to deal with the fact that sometimes weak leadership is exercised, that there are different reasons for it – both the lack of follow-up and perhaps the hierarchical system at times becomes an obstacle – and that we do not provide police students with adequate training when it comes to handling people. A lot of people lack leadership skills, and a lot of people may lack room to rent. I think that found in Bystrøm's master's thesis "New as Chief Police Officer" at least suggests that there is a lot to pick up here and more important things and elements to take up. I hope that the Minister of Justice will also take this with him in the work on police reform. You can't organize for better leadership, and you can't adopt a better culture. This must be created, and other types of measures are required. The Labour Party is looking forward to taking the discussion on this further, which we hope to be able to deal with the police reform here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e283	The interpellant shall have a plus in the margin to address this important theme. There is an overall judicial committee that feels strongly responsible for improving what is addressed by the interpellant. The Gjørv Commission issued a harsh judgment against the Norwegian police. The current Head of the Police Federation, Sigve Bolstad, stated in the evening post on 14 August 2012 that “much of what is in this report is going to shape us for a long, long time in the future”. What separated what went well, from what went bad, has to do with culture, attitudes and leadership. There has been plenty of time in the Norwegian police to develop both culture and culture. As you know, there is a hairy border between culture and unculture in any organization. The county seat is 800 years old, and the police force is 400 years old. It is difficult to manage large organisations, and it is particularly difficult to run large organisations in public. Why is that so? The problem in public organisations and Norwegian police is that there are a lot of targets. When the goals become many, they lose their guiding power, and they lose their direction for the organization. Therefore, the government will now reduce the 54 targets that the old government has delivered to 10 goals. This is crucial in order to address what is important and what is less important, what is to be delivered and what is not to be delivered. How can you evaluate whether a leader delivers what is expected in his important job, when he is measured against a goal hierarchy where everyone is mentioned and no one is forgotten? Then the targets lose their strength. The Gjørv Commission pointed out that there was a fundamental need to make profound changes in the Norwegian police. If the police are to succeed in this process of change, it is essential that we get to the level of middle management in the police. With an office/police where management talks about the middle managers as part of the trustees, as someone who is not involved in management, and where the middle managers refer to management as a separate part of the organisation in which they themselves are not involved, there is no good basis for managing an organisation. What the middle management does and spends to the employees is absolutely crucial for the success of a change process. They interpret, they communicate to their employees and are the link in the management pyramid from the top to the broader pyramid at the bottom. The Norwegian police, like many other public businesses, are more run over than led. The police should review their own management selection process, on which the interpellant – and, to the extent, the Minister of Justice – was involved. Leader talents need to be surveyed early. Taking over as head of a department after ten to fifteen years of being a colleague and a co-worker and not having a formal competence to lead what is now to be managed is a very poor starting point. Then you carry on the legacy of the leader you took from. There should be far greater use of job rotations in the Norwegian police, as is done in the Defence Department, which qualify for a higher position by rotating between several posts, so that they are qualified on the day of a higher management task. The Norwegian police are characterized by a very strong corps spirit. It's a value in itself that we politicians have to back up and fence around. That is the basis from which the police will evolve. But the danger with a strong body spirit is that you can be unreceptive to views and necessary corrections from the surrounding environment. There has been a bit of a problem in the Norwegian police department. It is also thought-provoking that for a ten-year period, the leading public-conceived representative from the Norwegian police was not Norwegian police management, but the trade union leader. Last week the Judicial Committee was at the committee meeting of the police officer in Oslo. Then the police officer in Oslo said that the Oslo Police are getting what the Oslo Police are deciding to do. It was very uplifting to hear, and I hope and expect that it is also the position of the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e298	I can join the others who have said that this is a fine debate. It's Thursday and gray out, but the debate is good in Stortinget. That's the way it should be. I think I'll start somewhere else. Leadership is not a pursuit of scapegoats when things go wrong. Good management is to have a review of situations that have not been optimal, to see if you can achieve better results another time in the same situation. That, in my opinion, is the big operational difference. By doing so, I believe that you should be incredibly careful about criticising individuals, regardless of which organisation they are in, when they are in an emergency and do their best there and there. Shooting unarmed people has never been a success, and there should be no success either. But at the same time you have to have the ability to dry out asking questions by the way it was done, to make it better next time. I believe that this is a responsible way to take care of their employees and drive management development. At last it's about the quality of the individual, it's about the manager or the people who's on the floor doing the most important job. Management, attitudes and culture are created by the society of which we are part. There are good cultures, there are so-called uncultures, and there are hidden cultures. But what ultimately is the solution to things, is to be clear on what you want. I think, is the Stortinget as a body clear when you make your state budget, what clear expectations we have for political leadership in the Ministry of Justice? Is the Department of Justice's management clear enough for the Police Directorate? Is the Police Directorate clear enough down to the police officers, to the political schools? All of this is simple, and as soon as you go from one point to another point, you create some kind of vulnerability, because communication is essential to getting the message you need to achieve the goals you have. The debate here is important, it is full. But then we should also be clear and conscious of our role as orderers and on what we want. At times, the Norwegian police have had Christmas properly. Other times they have got it without it being justified. But I fully agree with what the Minister of Justice said, that we have to ask the questions perhaps the most when it is most unpleasant to do so. Don't we dare do it then, when shall we do it? If we're just going to discuss the sunshine stories or the size of parking tickets, we're going to have a pretty empty, narrow and not attractive society. We have to take the big discussions, as we did after July 22nd. As the basis of a huge tragedy, Norwegian police were dissected afterwards and measured all the ways. You've also looked at the methods that were chosen. I think it's just some of the things that lead to success: you have to dry to do it when it's at the most unpleasant. I think education is a key here, as it is in the rest of society. The quality of the students we take in at the Police College is a key. The curriculum and how they meet there is probably the most important pillar of the product that we get out of, because the school system is one of the most important influences we have, it's up to us as magnification representatives when we go back and look at how we became what we became, or other types of mentors. The high school of police has a crucial role to play in this, but it is now a tool for the system, and the system has to make sure that things work at all stages. Then each time has its leaders. I'm so old, I've met Truls Fyhn, Arne Huuse and Willy Haugli. Today someone would say that they were some dinosaurs, but at that point they did a formidable job. They were -- I'm using a bad term, but still -- a kind of warriors, politicians, who had the crew with them all in one place. When these guys said quiet up, people stood up and were with them. Why? Well, because it was about mutual loyalty, it was about a clarity of what to do, and then it was about being a leader who was life-seeking and a leader who didn't fail you when things got difficult. That might be the challenge today, because we have completely different criteria. Today we have a system, for example. at the police master level with a bonus scheme. Whether it necessarily promotes a unilateral focus only on qualitative police work, I am not sure. I'm not even sure I think it makes sense to have that system, but as long as the Minister of Justice doesn't propose anything else, I'll deal with it. The day he makes a proposal for something else, I will also discuss it, of course. So to the representative, Mr. Vågslid, as I think she had a good reason when she was in and talking about the Storting must be careful to measure only quantity, you also have to look at other things. But sometimes quantity is also a quality. Let me end by saying that we're not better than what we're totally capable of doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e319	I would also like to thank the interpellant for a very important debate. I look forward to the same debate in a year's time, and therefore I would also like to thank the Council of State for an offensive response. It is in place to congratulate him on his one-year anniversary, and the offensive work that is already under way is important. It is an important debate to take into account the year in which the Storting will make such major changes to the police. And then I'm glad it's announced that this will be in focus. Much of the debate on the police is based on the tragic events of July 22. It was a shock to all of Norway, and it was also a shock to the police. As others have said, it has probably also caused us to be unfair, that the police have got too much criticism all over the line. But many of us asked enough questions when we saw the tragic events in Årdal with the bus crashes, by the fact that after July 22, the learning had not been bigger. It's a bit of what I think is important in the debate, that we have to be able to distinguish – as the previous speaker was about – from bringing forward what is positive, and at the same time not be afraid to use the events that are not going as well as they should, to make the police better. One of the main conclusions of the Gjørv Commission is: ‘In the opinion of the Commission, these lessons are more about management, interaction, culture and attitudes than lack of resources, need for new legislation, organisation or choice of values.’ Then it is interesting to read what the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs writes in its consultation response to the police analysis, because they write that the police analysis responds little to the overall leadership challenge that the July 22 report points to, and therefore believes that the Gjørv Commission report must be used as a basis for the work. That is why I would also like to stress that I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear on this, because that piece must not be forgotten in that work. Then it is important to have political governance. I was of those who smiled and were satisfied when I read the state budget when it came to target management. Because, as the Council of State said, because narrow targets and performance management can result in priorities that are not really the most important. That is why, as politicians, we need to strike the balance between being eager drivers of what we really are burning for, and at the same time give confidence to the chief of police, so that you can make the most of what is most important. I then feel that clarification of responsibility between the Ministry of Justice, the POD, the police districts and the special agencies is important, because as politicians, we need to be clear about who is responsible. Then I register that there are many who ask if we are recruiting the right officers in the police, and that is an important question. The answer to good management is not just changing the structure. Therefore, police reform must be more than structural changes. It would have been interesting to hear the police chief's thoughts about looking at management as a separate subject in front of a career path, which is often criticized as, so that we achieve that there are qualifications and personal qualities related to management that determine whether you are suitable as a leader, and not seniority. That is why we must have an overall strategy for leadership development. Then I'll warn against too much emphasis on performance-based management. If we are to succeed in getting the best possible police force, value-based management is essential, so that the police can prioritise what is most important, and not necessarily what can be measured as easily as possible. In the light of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I can't stand to mention the special age limit, because as politicians, we have a challenge there. It's not an easy task, but I think we're losing very important competence because a 57 or 58-year-old might be what we need in some of the leadership positions. So I also challenge the Council of State on that. Then I think that the piece of culture has been drawn out and described by many in a good way. If you look at a consultation response to the police analysis, the police community writes something that I think we have to notice. They point out that we need to create a culture that opens up to learning, testing and failure, and that we are far from such a culture in the police today. It's a pretty rough sentence on the police themselves. Cultural change is not something that happens overnight; it will be a long-term process. That is why I am pleased with the processes that are going on in the police today, but we must also be clear in the future. In the important work that we are going to do next year, management and culture must be addressed, and we must succeed in what PF calls for, that we have a culture that opens up for learning, for testing and for failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e348	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue. There are many good leaders in the police already. That has been mentioned several times in the debate. At the same time, it has also been pointed out that it can be better. Why is this so important? It's about an agency that's responsible for our security and for the functioning of society. It's crazy enough if a company goes bankrupt because of poor leadership, but the police are staggering with things that sometimes say about life and death. Then, of course, it is essential that the stalls, culture and leadership in the building are built up with good results. It doesn't help to reorganize and move on boxes if you don't do anything about culture, and it's still mortal to reorganize for the reorganization of debt. One of the success criteria, as I see it, is to provide for a police department that's not too heavy. A good lease culture has provided clear lines and clear responsibilities. I shall allow myself to be a little bold in this debate. Today we see a police force where bureaucracy is increasing, and one has an organization through the Police Directorate that's been doing a lot of research. Then we have to dare to ask questions and see what we get again for what we put in. Following the tragic event on 22 July 2011, each police district has passed through its own change programmes. My impression is that very many people have done a thorough and good job in this area. That means that in many areas we have a rather different police force today than we had in 2011. It is good that the Stortinge debate the police, culture and leadership there, and to say that former police officer Hanne Kristin Rohde wrote in an article earlier this year: «The belief in square clocks must be replaced by the belief in good governance, truly fundamental to good governance. Then the understanding must be translated into action. There must be links between understanding, i.e. intellect, and action. It's not going to be sent to management modules at Police College, or taking masters in management at BI, if you come back to work and continue as before." Maybe we'll have to look at whether the leadership program in charge of the Police College today is good enough. Have we chosen to bet on this adequately? We're going to meet another time. There needs to be a different leadership in the police today than was usual in the 1980s. There are completely different requirements both internally and externally. At the same time, I would like to stress that we need courageous and independent leaders. I also want to challenge the Minister of Justice whether it is lucky that many of today's police leaders are added to short-term institutions, and whether there is sufficient independence for good governance. I am happy The Storting takes this debate. Good police services are not only a question about the number of units, but also a question about who we are going to hire them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e370	This is a very important debate on one of many public sectors that is complicated and difficult to manage. There's a lot of management literature, books, magazines and courses, and I'm not sure if it'll bring us so much further. The four-star American general Norman Schwarzkopf led the successful operation Desert Storm and was then asked by journalists what leadership philosophy he confessed to. He said he didn't understand the question – he didn't know what good management was, but he knew it again when he saw it. It's also my experience – after living a relatively long life in the public sector, being a leader, seeing a lot of leaders: I recognize good leaders when I see them, and they're very different. If in an unscientific way, but perhaps correctly, I may be allowed to bring out someone that I think characterizes what I've seen of good leaders – and I think this is true whether it's in the police, a demanding sector, in the defence, a demanding sector, in the universities, which is demanding to lead, a demanding theatre to lead – there are three things that I've noticed: firstly, they work very hard. They get up early in the morning and have long days and long weeks. Secondly, they follow up on the matters for which they are responsible — projects, things to be done, often weekly, at least monthly, if there are important parts of the work they have undertaken. To put it that way, it may be easier to remember, they are never interviewed in the Saturday edition of Today's Business. Photogenic men and women are interviewed who have often not been in the management job for so long, but who are successful at the time. Often they don't stay in that job for that very long. But what's typical of these leaders is that they always say that their success is due to point one: they delegate mass, and point two: they deal with the strategic. It is not my experience that leaders with success in the public sector can escape that luxury. The leaders involved are able to find the balance between strategy and operational operations — being in everyday life, being in the ‘pudding’ process, running the follow-up process. I agree with what has been said about the fact that also in the police, as in many other difficult and demanding sectors of Norwegian society, very good management is taking place. If there are two areas I think we should be interested in working on, there's the invisible gear between politics and the implement. If we can make that gear work even better, we'll get even better management and even better effect. The second point, which I was in the past, is the follow-up to what you decide to do, and it applies both from the political level to the implement and down through the whole apparatus. One final point I want to make is that we need so many leaders. In the police, in the defense and most other places, there is one important leader for maybe every tenth person, and when we need so many, these leaders must and must be very different. If I get to go back to Norman Schwarzkopf again, he said, "I know good management when I see it." And if we think about it, I think we're all following a leader who's himself, and who's allowed to be himself, with the mistakes and flaws that we all of course have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e386	First of all, I would like to thank you for the width of the participation and the great and genuine commitment you see across all the games on this question. I think of this as a start. There is by no means an end or a place to set a dot for an important discussion. I believe that the perspective that was introduced at the Police College seminar on police culture is also important for us to take with us. There were, among other things: to say that everyone wants to change culture, but no one wants to change their own culture. There is also something that justice politicians have to bring with us in the way we work, what expectations we have and how clear they are. In a year's time, I'll resume this discussion. And if that's how we meet ourselves at the door then, the goal is to have a nice meeting. Inspired by the contributions made during the debate, I would like to ask some very specific questions to the Minister of Justice. The first concrete question is inspired by Jan Arild Ellingsen's contributions, for he takes education as an important key to what is culture, how a change of culture, what a syllabus has, and how a person meets. The Judicial Committee was not so long ago in England on committee missions. There we also met the Blue Light Tates, and we were told how they have been working to address culture and cultural development there, not least after the 2005 terrorist attack. They stressed from their point of view that they think that a change of culture is primarily from the bottom of, by taking up the education cycle and by ensuring early interaction in the education cycle. The first question is then what plans the Minister of Justice has for the education process, as his party trap takes up in this discussion. The second question is inspired by Lene Voogslid, for she notes that not everything that counts can be counted. I totally agree with that. Because even though I share the Minister of Justice's commitment to reducing the number of targets that a person is measured on, I would like the Minister of Justice to tell you how he will deal with those aspects of the police's work that cannot be counted and measured. Ropstad takes up the need for an overarching strategy for leadership development, and until then I wonder whether the Minister of Justice sees us getting it in the police reform, or whether he thinks we should set up an independent race to ensure an overarching strategy for leadership development. In conclusion, I would like to commend the perspective taken by the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, because he said that leadership is not a pursuit of scapegoats, it is to look at what can be done better. It's not about criticising individuals, it's about getting to grips with how we can all contribute. That's a perspective I think we should also have with us in the further discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e405	Let me first thank you for a good debate with many good visions. I want to stay with the representative Health's management perspective, because it shows that you have very different approaches to the discussion about what good management is. You can have an overall philosophy and a theory of what leadership is, should be and should be, and then you can have the practical approach, where you look at what actually characterizes the leaders that are around us. It doesn't have to be the opposite of it, but it shows the diversity of angles of incidence that this question has. In a way, the interpellant has a more overarching philosophical approach than the representative of Health, and I think it is nice that we get the different perspectives in a debate like this. Then the representative was in the middle of the question of how many officers in the police who actually have formal leadership skills, and it's an obvious challenge that too few have it. That is why I have been concerned to ensure that we will in the future recruit leaders where leadership competence is in itself a demand, where it counts, and that we do not follow up the regular management recruitment, which in the police has been ‘too simple’ and where the leadership perspective has been too absent. I feel that the police department itself is also very conscious of that challenge now. It is also crucial to develop good leaders that they are followed up. This is why the Police Directorate has now launched a whole new staff follow-up to stimulate managers through a concrete follow-up. Then I think it's important, when we've talked about target management, that it's politically our job to ensure that it's the most relevant goals that should govern the agencies. As I mentioned in my main post, the previous government had 54 objectives and targets for the field of justice and preparedness. There were four of the 54 so-called change targets, so you're going to go from what's today to something that's better. Now that we've reduced the number of targets to 10, 9 of the 10 targets are change targets, so you're going to have to go from today's status to something better. I think that is about clear political leadership in an incredibly important sector. It is also about demonstrating trust in the implementation of the ethos. Providing the institutions with space to deliver good results, where they know it is the most focused, is also about political leadership. So there's been a lot of different good ideas about how to think in the future. Elvenes was a member of the U.S. to this end with the body spirit, which can be a powerful force in the changes that are coming, but which can also be a challenge – as the Rivers themselves pointed out. But I'm experiencing a police force that's more changeable than we've ever seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e420	That is when the debate is on case No. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e426	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e6047	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-16.ana.ud1739e6237	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
