ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e83	Honourable co-representatives! We remember the magnificence representative, the art painter, the preacher and the writer Peder I. Ramsrud who died on June 10 this year, 91 years old. Peder I. Ramsrud was born in Fåberg on 10 February 1923 and grew up in Biri. At the age of 16, he started at the Swedish Public School, and then went to the School of the Ministry of the Bible and the Presbytery. In 1941 he began to travel as an emissary and had this as a profession until 1957. He was known as a capable pastor with the ability for good and strong formulations. Peder I. Ramsrud was a versatile man with artistic abilities. He has shown these in different ways, including: through drawing and painting. It is told that the theater chief Bjørn Bjørnson was very excited for a drawing Ramsrud had made by his father, the poet-head Bjørnster Bjørnson. As late as when he was 85 years old, Ramsrud had two exhibitions with his own pictures. Peder I. Ramsrud has also written songs, poems and considerations. During the war, the Nazi press union intervened against the Gjøvik congregation newspaper after this had had a poem by Ramsrud on the press, in which it said in a strofe that «For our savior still has Israel in love». In 1953 he published the book "Emergency" at the Indremisjonslag. The book on over 50 pages is a personal witness, partly a discussion of methods and strategies in the wake-up work written by a 30-year-old who was already an experienced preacher of awakening. Of his lyrics, «In the Letter of Romans eight» is the most famous. When he finished as a pastor, Ramsrud cared for his family as an art painter a period before he began in the insurance industry. This career he finished as an assurant in Storebrand in 1989, the same year he was elected to the Stortinget. Peder I. Ramsrud's father had been a local politician for the Christian People's Party, but when the son engaged in political work, it was in what was then the Anders Lange's Party, later the Progress Party. In 1979 he was elected to the council of East Toten, and from 1981 he also met in Oppland County. As late as 2011, he was a member of the Eastern Toten municipal government. He represented the Progress Party in Uppland County from 1989 to 1993. He was a member of the Agriculture Committee. When he first met the Stortinget 66 years old, the media wrote that for the first time an great-grandfather had made his debut in the National Assembly. Our thoughts go today to Peder I. Ramsrud's dear and dear, and we shine peace upon his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e113	The representatives Per Olaf Lundteigen, Magne Rommetveit, Oskar J. Grimstad, Sveinung Stensland, Iselin Nybø, Kristian Norheim, Elin Rodum Agdestein and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Are Health and Anne Odenmarck For Hedmark County: Rangdi Krogstad For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen For the Rogaland County: Marie Breek For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Bjørn Erik Hollevik and Gunhild Berge Stang For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen Four permit applications are available: by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Tor André Johnsen from 18 November onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Central Party on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Jenny Klinge from 18 November onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Central Party on the Health Permit of the Representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien from 18 November onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Jan-Henrik Frederiksen from 19 and 20 November to attend a seminar of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Helsinki. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Ronny BergFor Hedmark County: Hege JensenFor More and Romesdal County: Geir Inge LienFor Uppland County: Ivar Odnes
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e227	Hege Jensen, Geir Inge Lien and Ivar Odnes are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e235	At the request of the President of the Grand Duchy, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Court. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e262	I'll try to explain to you as briefly as I can, the two issues, which are the presidency settings. First of all, there is a vote on amendments to the law on wholesale compensation, and two proposals are being made. Amendments to the rules for the cover of occupational injury and diseases are proposed. Up to now, it has been such that the representatives of the grubbing-up have neither had the same rights as State employees under the main tariff agreement of the State, nor, for that matter, as members of the Government have today in respect of occupational injury. Nor have the representatives of Storting been subject to Chapter 13 of the Swedish Law on Occupational Indemnity Coverage. The last thing that could be worth noting. It is not long since we had no claim for unemployment benefits if we suddenly fell out of the Storting. It had to be another law of its own. Storing representatives have been elected and are not to be regarded as employees. This means that we are not covered by the rules and agreements that apply elsewhere in the world of work, unless something else is decided – that is, we have made our own law. In order to ensure that representatives are covered in the event of an incident, two private insurance contracts have therefore been drawn up, inter alia: includes accident insurance. This private insurance contract has not been applicable to occupational diseases covered by Chapter 13 of the Law on Social Security and the Main Agreement on Tariffs in the State. The Presidency considers that the BPPs should be subject to a mechanism similar to that of employees in the country under the main agreement for government employees. Under today's system of private insurance contracts, representatives are not covered for occupational diseases. By including ourselves in the core tariff agreement, we will be better covered by disability and loss of future income than is the case today. A switch to a system similar to the core tariff agreement would, in aggregate, result in a better regulation of the position of the representatives in the event of a change. So to something completely different. The Presidency shall propose to authorise the Administration of the Storting to require reimbursement and other financial benefits which have been unduly paid. Former contributors who have received retirement and/or post-employment benefits have had the obligation to repay the benefits paid in error. But so far Stortinget has not had a legal basis to demand a refund. We believe it is neat to have such a legal home. The Presidency believes that this should be incorporated into the Grand Prix Compensation Act. The suspension proposes a provision for a refund that provides rules on when excess benefit may be claimed and on how to recover the amounts, if any. The law has been amended in accordance with similar provisions of the State Pension Fund Act and the National Social Security Act. Case No. 2 today is the cancellation of changes in the gross remuneration regulation. These are changes in the right of family visits by the family representatives. The Presidency proposes that the provision be amended in such a way that it does not matter when, in the year in which the spouse/accompaniment/family member is taken between the place of residence and Oslo, and that the journeys should not be tied up to when the Grand Duchy is united, or, for that matter, once every six months. Visits are used for visits by representatives while in Oslo. Many representatives in Oslo are also on days or in periods when the Storting is so-called not assembled – and we have hope of that. The Presidency refers to the importance of facilitating a family life for the big business representatives. We propose that the amendment be made with effect from 1 July 2014. In other words, representatives who have visited the family this summer may then be able to cover the journey as a visit, provided that the documentation requirements for the rest are met. On this basis, I recommend the two options.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e285	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e301	For more than 20 years, Somalia has been exposed to war, clan feides, unrest, emerging terrorist organizations with Muslim roots, such as Al Shabaab, piracy, which has also hit Norwegian ships, food shortages, hunger, water shortages, poor governance – you can really ask yourself: Is there hope for Somalia? That's at least the picture we get through the media, and a few weeks ago we got a new warning that there's another starvation on the Horn of Africa, with food shortages and all the problems that follow. It's a situation we've heard about many times in the last few years. Somalia is a country that had no written language until 1976, and it is a good symbol of how many years after this country is in terms of development and how different this country is from Norway. In 1992, an estimated one million Somalis fled their own country, and those who remained in the country were at risk of starvation. The UN had an operation in Somalia from 1992 to 1995. They were to monitor the ceasefire and ensure that the parties to the civil war did not escalate the war, they were to contribute to security and to the entry of emergency operations into the country — a country that was severely affected by the famine. Then it is that this UN operation in Somalia is described as perhaps the most unsuccessful in the UN history, and the sail of Norway contributed with strengths into that UN operation, we were unable to stop the challenges that Somalia then faced. I think it's a warning when the international community collapses, considering how much it also affects Norway as a nation – that's what I'm going to get back to. Somalia, without a single central government from the country, collapsed in 1991 to the summer of 2012. In the shadow, behind this absence of the central authorities, the militants grew up, then the clans grew up. We have seen that the lawless conditions we saw in Somalia also created a base area for international terrorism, which also concerns us. Now we have a parliament, whether it is not democratically elected, but in September 2012, we chose a separate President of the Parliament for which the United Nations has now laid the foundations. That same harvest was a separate Constitutional Assembly that has adopted a new Constitution that is now to be passed in Parliament, and we hope that it will be a referendum – that the security situation in the country will be so good that at least in 2016 a referendum can be held on the basis of this. Suffering if the trials have been great for Somalia, there are also some positive developments in the region. Somalia has come much further than Somalia in terms of democracy and economic development. I think we can say that there is some pride in the fact that they have managed to get this far in democracy. They have made several democratic elections in the last 20 years, they have passed a constitution, and human rights are, in fact, seen to be widely respected. Amnesty has, for example, to say that developments in Somalia should have been used as a model for the development of peace, reconciliation and democracy in other countries as well. In Puntland, too, the development of democracy has gone beyond what has been done in South Somalia. Somalia has finally got a president and a government, but we have not seen any democratic elections. Then you can ask yourself, why is this country on the Horn of Africa so interesting to Norway? Why is that important? Firstly, it is because many Somali refugees live in Norway. They constitute, as the President read from the Interpellation text, the largest non-Western group in Norway. I was a little sad when the school class that was in the gallery was ordered out, because we saw that there were several students there who wanted to hear such an interpellation, based on their background. Then it was foolish that they were limped out of the gallery just before it began. The second is that Norwegian soldiers were part of the UN mission in Somalia in the 1990s. That mission was no success, and when we see that the international community is failing, it affects the flow of refugees to Norway. It could be a good reminder today. When we see the major refugee disasters being rolled out in other parts of the world, it's going to affect the Norwegian borders, and it's going to affect Norwegian policy, if we don't solve these challenges internationally. Thirdly, Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian ships have been attacked by pirates in the Gulf of Aden. Maritime piracy is not a very new invention, one does not actually have to go so far back in Norwegian history until one finds that this was quite well organized along the Norwegian coast as well. What is the background to piracy is said to have lawless and hopeless conditions on land, where people see no alternative but to use these abuses as a means of income, and where this is also used to finance military activity. So the situation on land in Somalia is a matter of Norwegian citizens. In addition, we see that Al Shabaab and other terrorist groups, spreading both fear and terror, live to recruit young people from Norway, but also to destroy the democratic forces that are in Somalia, with their emergence and operation. They are also recruiting young people from Norway, with a picture that this is almost a ‘boy on the skate’ – they are not; these are cruel terrorist groups operating with both fear and terror as their main weapon. So it is that Mohamed Osman Jawari, who was elected President of the Parliament of Somalia in 2012, came to Norway as a refugee in 1991 and lived in Trondheim until 2010, before he moved back to Somalia and became President of Parliament. So we have a Norwegian citizen who is President of Parliament in Somalia. The next thing that binds us together is climate change, and drought and food shortages come more often and more often in this region. Climate and environment are a global challenge where Norway can play a role, and we should find concrete solutions for both Somalia and East Africa in general, where we see that the droughts that occurred in the old days now come every two years instead of for example. Every five years. In an aid magazine in Norway, we found the following quote: ‘Before I said, ‘Welcome to hell!’ Now I say, ‘Welcome to beautiful Mogadishu!’ It was Bashir Yusuf Osman, who is the hotel director at Peace Hotel, who humored easily and explained this to a Norwegian journalist. Mogadishu was one of Africa's most beautiful cities, and it has been a few years since it was used as an expression that it was «the white pearl on the Indian Sea». But Osman's greeting nevertheless describes optimism in the Somali capital. Many Somalis now want to move back after what has happened in the last 23 years, but we know that there are refugee camps in Kenya where there are still half a million Somalis. Somalia was hit hard by a drought and starvation disaster in 2011, and we see that 1.1 million people are still internally displaced. A few months ago, a disaster was notified again. It is said that 2.9 million are in a humanitarian crisis, that 50 000 children are seriously undernourished, that women in Somalia are the group most exposed to maternal mortality, that polio comes back, that 30 pst. the population does not have access to clean water and every seventh child is undernourished. The questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs are: What can Norway contribute? What can Norway develop in the future to be able to strengthen cooperation between Norway and Somalia? And how can we, with the large group of Somalis we have in Norway, contribute to a positive development in this region, for this region affects Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e346	I would like to thank the interpellant for putting Somalia on the agenda. It is true, as the interpellant also states, that we have a large Somali diaspora in Norway, which plays a constructive role both in Norway and in its home country. I think it's a great opportunity to inform the Storting about how the government will work towards Somalia in the future. As the interpellant was also involved, Somalia has been without a functioning central authority and in a continuous conflict since 1991. Apart from the human suffering it has caused, it has caused the country to be fragmented politically, politically, economically and economically. As the representative Skei Grande points out, there are sometimes considerable differences between the different parts of the country. While the conflicts have plagued the worst in southern and central Somalia, including around the capital of Mogadishu, the northern regions, Somalia and Puntland, have been able to stabilise and build a central government structure to a greater extent than the rest of the country. This is particularly true in Somalia, which has had a stable government since the mid-2000s and has made several relatively democratic elections with power shifts without the use of violence – which was also the subject of the inter-pellant. The last few years have seen increased optimism in Somalia and positive developments in several sectors, but they have also had their backsliding. Through a comprehensive transition process supported by the international community, a new president, government and parliament came into place in 2012. A temporary federal constitution was passed, and the security situation has improved, thanks to military operations that have significantly weakened the terrorist network Al Shabaab. The African Union, with its peace-building force AMISOM, has undertaken a major and important task. The UN contributes with support to the AMISOM Force in order to succeed in comprehensive security efforts. The new Governing Boards have adopted a National Reform Programme, Vision 2016. It sets the objectives of the federal process with the intention of establishing states throughout the country. Vision 2016 also includes revision of the Constitution with subsequent referendum and implementation of national democratic elections by the end of 2016. Somalia faces very difficult challenges after more than two decades of civil war and in a situation where large parts of the country are still in armed conflict. The State administration has limited capacity and is characterised by extensive corruption. It is almost the tradition of political conflict and power struggle between President and Prime Minister. Over the last few weeks, we've experienced an acute situation. A motion of censure against the Prime Minister is presented in Parliament. Somalia will continue to depend for a long time on comprehensive international support – political, economic and military. The international community is in close dialogue with Somali authorities in the pursuit of a stable and peaceful Somalia. Through an international process for developing vulnerable countries, the ownership of authorities is anchored in the country’s own development process and the assistance provided. Norway has played a prominent role in the stabilisation process in Somalia. The government will strengthen Norwegian involvement with Somalia, and it is therefore proposed as one of 12 focus countries in the next year’s budget. The government's efforts towards Somalia are based on the priorities of Somali authorities. Our main objective is to contribute to the stability, peace and development of Somalia. Norway therefore supports measures to provide a basis for national reconciliation, the establishment of functioning authorities and economic activity. Norway wants to contribute to peace and economic development in Somalia in a number of ways: first, by focusing on institution building and democratisation in line with government plans and priorities. This will take the form of both political dialogue with the authorities and support for concrete development actions. Norway has played a central role in building up the competence and capacity of the Somali financial management through the Special Financing Facility, SFF. We are now considering in the further engagement how to follow up this after the bulk of the SFF has been transferred to the World Bank's Multi Partner Fund. Natural resource management is another area where Norway has contributed and can contribute. Somalia has Africa’s longest coastline and large natural resources such as fish, minerals, oil and gas. Many of these resources are currently unspoiled or managed in a slightly regulated and unsustainable manner. For Somalia, natural resources represent a high potential for economic development and well-being. But they can also become a germ for continued conflict if they are not managed to benefit the entire population. Today, authorities have limited competence and capacity in natural resource management. Norway has assisted Somalia in documenting the external borders of its continental shelf. It provides the basis for the future development of natural resources for new generations of Somalis. This is an area where Norway will be able to provide further assistance. The fight against female genital mutilation is an important priority for the government. Norway has set a new and offensive target of contributing to the abolition of cruel practices in one generation. In addition to the elements I have now had, Norway will continue its efforts to combat piracy around the Horn of Africa. This is done through development projects in Somalia, and through cooperation in the justice, police and military sectors with Somali authorities and international actors such as NATO, the EU, Interpol and other countries. Norway will continue to contribute heavily humanitarianally. According to the UN, more than a million people in Somalia are immediately in need of humanitarian aid. A further two million people experience that their food security is threatened. The government announced an increase of 35 million in September. humanitarian aid to help prevent a new hunger disaster. The persistently precarious humanitarian situation contributes to local conflicts and hinders economic development. Norway will therefore also have a humanitarian focus in 2015 with a focus on building preparedness to avoid future crises. Work on health and education is also important. In these areas, Norway cooperates with non-governmental organisations and with the United Nations system. This work will be continued. I have now outlined what Norway is doing and wants to do in Somalia as a whole. Regions such as Somalia and Puntland are part of this. It is the federal government in Mogadishu that is our main partner in Somalia. At the same time, we will maintain close contact with the regional authorities of Somalia and Puntland and other states of Somalia when they are established as part of the federalisation process. Interpellant addresses the issue of Somaliland. I would therefore like to mention briefly that Norway is also providing support in this region, inter alia. in the fields of humanitarian work, education, democratisation and institution building. As part of our political dialogue with Somalia, we are in contact with the federal authorities of Mogadishu and with the authorities of Somalia and Puntland on their relations between them. It is particularly important in the context of the ongoing federalisation process and preparations for referendums and elections in 2016. To achieve a peaceful and stable Somalia, increased dialogue and cooperation between the regions are essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e384	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good answer and a thorough presentation. He also answered many of the questions I thought I had to follow up, and that's good. We in the Left are pleased that Somalia is one of the twelve focus countries set up in the government's draft government budget – we will not discuss this with the government. But it's important to put content into it. It did so in some areas, but I want to follow up with some questions. We know that providing humanitarian aid is seven to eight times more expensive than preventing disasters. That's why it's important, when we've seen that the United Nations has pressed the big button so many times and said it's a crisis, that we're now starting to work a lot more to prevent the challenges we're facing. Then it's to bet on women, girls and education an important part of it. This is one of the countries with the highest maternal and infant mortality rates, and it also has the worst health coverage. It is with and underpinning that disasters happen, and it also helps to drain a society of resources. It is also important that women join the governance process in the future. That is not all that is good in the governance mechanisms that are there today, and when we know a little about the basis for legislation – also in Somaliland – we see that it has not been possible to lift women in. For a government that has girls and education high on the agenda, it is important that this is high on the agenda also in Somalia. So I think it's interesting, what the Council of State says about taking care of the natural resources. Taking care of their seas is not just taking care of the continental shelf and what it can contain, sail if it has brought Norway much well-being. Having a good maritime school and knowledge of how to regulate the other marine resources is important in the future. So it would have been nice if the council could also say something about it. Somaliland has a name called Somaliland Development Fund, which Sweden has established together with a number of other European countries. Norway has contributed there before. Here we can also contribute further in the future. The funds are going to build infrastructure in Somaliland. It would have been interesting if the council could also comment on it. Finally, stopping the recruitment of extreme organisations like Al Shabaab and other extreme environments is not only a job for Norwegian PST, it is also a job for the international community to ensure that these organisations do not gain more power.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e401	I would once again like to thank the representative for putting Somalia on the agenda. We are now operating for the first time a situation with four level 3 crises – humanitarian, global – as established by the UN. Somalia is not one of them, but I am very concerned about Somalia in the future about food security and vulnerability in general. We will continue to provide significant humanitarian assistance. The UN appeals in the case of Somalia have not been fulfilled. I think the interpellant has a very good point in terms of the arrangement of future aid and humanitarian aid. I believe that in the case of Somalia, we cannot say that one is humanitarian, and the other is long-term aid. I believe that humanitarian aid must also mean building up the resilience of Somalia to withstand the stresses that can come, both in terms of food, clean drinking water – everything that goes on sanitary. It's essential. Our humanitarian assistance has already been arranged in such a way that it has taken this into account. The interpellant mentioned in its introduction the importance of having good contact with the Somali diaspora in Norway, which is significant. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a continuous and good contact with the important Somali diaspora, and we get significant input into the device of our work. We also work actively in a peace and reconciliation perspective towards the various actors that are essential in Somalia. It is important now that the conflict that is going on in Mogadishu, between Prime Minister and President, is resolved, and that good ways of working together are found. I spoke to the President of Somalia on Saturday and urged that the parties in Mogadishu, not least in front of the major international donor country conferences linked to Somalia in the future, find a modus operandi together. I think I got a good response to those recordings. I've also talked to the Prime Minister of Mogadishu about the same thing. We will follow up on what the representative said about natural resources, this with the maritime sector, which is absolutely crucial. We'll look at this with e.g. maritime training, if that's an opportunity, and we'll look at the device of the new educational initiative aimed at girls in Somalia. That's over 600 million. kr in the budget, some of which should of course go to war and conflict areas and vulnerable countries, such as Somalia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e414	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for the interpellation. As she and I both know, a large majority of the almost 36,000 Norwegian Somalis live in Norway in Oslo. Many represent a resource in bilateral and development cooperation with Somalia, as confirmed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is clear from the budget proposal that Somalia has been chosen as a focus country. Somalia remains a so-called fragile state, conflicted and with major security challenges, both internally and when we look at the region and its neighbours. Among other things, there are: the country Eritrea, which may crash at any time. It is therefore important that Norway contributes to political stability, to growth and to welfare development, as well as an enormous need for reconstruction after 20 years of civil war and humanitarian crises. Not least, as we have heard, the terrorist organization Al Shabaab has waged a brutal war and spread terror. It's not least about women. The need for assistance is great. Let me join in what has been said, both by the interpellant and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Basically, I would say that the need can be divided into three. One is, of course, the need for humanitarian aid; it is quite obvious in a country that has still armed conflict. At the same time, this cannot be seen independently of other long-term assistance, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. Let me, then, as a point number. 2, mention ‘Good Governance’, the establishment of the public sector and democratic institutions. And the third is, of course, traditional long-term assistance in terms of health, education, agriculture and food security — and, for that matter, also job development. I used to have a question-time question about the Norwegian ‘Special Financing Facility’ project, SFF, a funding mechanism to channel assistance to strengthen the capacity of Somali authorities to carry out tasks under state power. After disclosure, half of an allocation of 79.2 million. kr had gone to pay private consultants, I am pleased that it is now the World Bank and the MIF that are going to continue this project, which we also heard today. Let me add: the provision and the contribution of Somalia to a well-functioning state administration, a basis for a federation, is also crucial for development and to bring people out of poverty. Assistance in the field of poverty is subject to the existence of an administration capable of managing the assistance. So I'm going to show that Somali leaders have given clear signals that they themselves will have control of the country's development, that is. international partners must support their own priorities, namely donor countries and UN organisations, but also civil society. Let me also add that it is important to support the relatively well-functioning Somaliland in the north. Infrastructure is needed here. The ‘Aid for Trade’ may be needed to ensure trade, food security and agricultural development. Let me also refer to what has been said, that they have political institutions that work well, and that they deserve assistance to promote development. I said Somalia is defined as a “fragile state”. When Norway is now to take a global leadership role in education, Somalia is a country where educational assistance is important. In particular, it applies to girls. Islamist terror, among other things, Al Shabaab, has led to severe oppression of women and hindered them in school. This must have a high priority. Somalia is also a country where reproductive health projects are crucial — preventing the death of very young women in pregnancy, preventing premature pregnancy. This is also a prerequisite for girls to receive education, but also to prevent infant mortality. The old millennial goals – yes, old and old – 4 and 5 still have great validity, not least here. Finally, I know a lot of beautiful Norwegian Somalis in Oslo who are a great resource to rebuild their country again, and who can really be partners in this work. And many of them are women, stuck against all myths.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e437	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for once again putting this part of Africa on the agenda of the Grand Duchy, and thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his good reply. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is showing a serious commitment to the region and a great deal of willingness to discuss this region. In the government's budget proposal, just Somalia, as we have heard, has been raised as one of Norway's emerging focus countries in aid policy. Just over six months ago, in this hall, we discussed another country on the Horn of Africa, namely Eritrea. I think we agree that in the Horn of Africa and in the rest of the region, stability and borders are fragile. These countries affect the security of each other, and finally ours as well. But there is also reason to say that this region is one in which Norway has a major commitment to peace, development and humanitarian aid, and that we have played a central role in several peace processes in the region and have provided significant support there. Today, we are talking about Somalia – a poor country, a country without a good state structure, a country without a good room for human rights and therefore not for freedom of religion. Somalia has been marked by wars and humanitarian crises over the last 20 years, although – as we have heard here – the northern districts are honourable exceptions. In particular, the terrorist organisation Al Shabaab contributes to the difficulty of the security situation and human rights situation, especially for women, in Somalia. Very many women are subjected to violence and rape, and child marriage is still widespread. It is assumed that 95 pst. by the women of Somalia, they are exposed to genital mutilation. Somalia ranks at the bottom of most development criteria. Just three years after the last famine, there is now probably a hunger crisis. According to the United Nations, a million people need emergency aid. Mother and child mortality is among the highest in the world, almost a third of the population have little food security, and many are internally displaced. That is why it is positive that the government increased humanitarian aid to Somalia by 35 million in September this year. kr. Auxiliary work is very difficult in Somalia. Humanitarian aid workers and human rights defenders in Somalia are directly attacked; life-saving assistance and protection for the civilian population are prevented. Here, as in all other contexts, it's society's weakest, the children, who will then be most vulnerable. As a sad example, you now see an increase of 82 pst. in polio cases on, inter alia: The Horn of Africa, and it must be noted that more than 500,000 children in Somalia are not reached with vaccines. Somalia needs all the focus the world society can master. As far as polio vaccines are concerned, work will continue to follow the UN strategy, which aims at full eradication of polio by 2018. To achieve this, Norway has increased its aid from 50 million. NOK 240 million. kr annually for polio vaccines in the poorest countries over the next six years. This may benefit the children of Somalia. I support the intentions of the Council of State that education will be a priority in the further support of Somalia. But health is no less important, which has also been raised here earlier, and I am pleased that our government is allowing these two areas to move forward in parallel in countries like Somalia. It is positive that Somalia should be a focus country, because Norway already has a broad commitment to build on. The Norwegian priorities in Somalia are about reconstruction, democracy, good governance, capacity building, the prevention of humanitarian disasters, peace and reconciliation. Norwegian organisations are undertaking important projects in Somalia on education, health, peace building and agriculture. We are strongly committed to building up school and health services. The support from Norway has helped bring the process of completing a new constitution in the future – as we have heard. Finally, I would like to mention that in Somalia, the lack of religious freedom and extreme persecution are linked to Islamic extremism and to some extent to tribal opposition and organized corruption. Article 18 of human rights has just been the subject of fire-fighting in Oslo. Both the interpellant and the undersigned signed the Oslo Declaration of Interparliamentary Freedom to have their religion and outlook on life without persecution. Let also that call be sent with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that we also want this for the Somali people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e460	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing an important issue in international policy – and in Norwegian policy, because Norway and Somalia are related. Many Nordics have their backgrounds from Somalia and live and nest here in Norway because Somalia has collapsed in war, outrage and conflict. It's an exciting and beautiful country, but it's also a warring country. Children in Somalia have grown up with bloody civil war, the health situation is among the worst in the world, there are no schools, and the majority of the young people in the country are out of work. In 2011 and 2012, famine hit the country. How is it really to live in safe Norway with such memories from their homeland? How does it characterize when the phone rings and family members who are still living in Somalia cry while the shotguns are right in the background? Can one save money for education for own children here in Norway when one is an uncle and aunt to children characterized by war trauma, and who find little hope for the future – as inhabitants of Dadaab, one of the largest refugee camps in the world? We as deposit representatives are also trusted for approx. 35,000 Norwegian Somalians. They ask Somalia in their hearts, they worry, they send money home, and they hope for a brighter future. So, in addition to supporting Somalia for the debt of international solidarity, it is also about national solidarity with new Nordics – our neighbours, workmates and friends. There are also those who may not have international solidarity so high on their agenda. Then I'll appeal to self-interest. An unstable and warring army of Somalia means that international merchant ships are boarded by pirates. It means large refugee traumas that the international community must take responsibility for either will or not, and that means a starting point for terrorism. A land without a future has led to recruitment to militant Islamism. An unruly Somalia has consequences for the whole world. So whether you are on your own interest team or on the solidarity team – or both – you should be on the team that says yes to the international community supporting the reconstruction of Somalia. After 20 years of civil war, Somalia is missing a functioning state. Everything from government institutions, health services and infrastructure needs to be built from scratch. The international community has provided much relief. It is important that more and more efforts are turned towards long-term development. The last few years have already given rise to increased hope. Islamists in Al Shabaab have been driven out of the largest cities. Pirate activity has been greatly reduced. Now dare young people again to bathe on the beach in Mogadishu. But building a new country is at best challenging for the government of Somalia. Norway should take a primary responsibility for contributing to it, being a contributor to long-term economic development, helping to ensure the rights and health of women, building up political and economic institutions and supporting the development of democracy and the development of more functioning human rights. The red-green government is working a lot to get an international fund for reconstruction to help Somalia through the first critical phase, which is now being taken over by the World Bank. The goal is to create a roadmap for democratic development and state building in that warring country. Somalis themselves must have ownership and responsibility for their own development, and there needs to be openness as one indicates with the corruption that has existed there before. The requirement for documentation on how money is spent is the provision for more money to be paid, and therefore economic experts are to work side by side with the Somali government. In this way, building capacity will also provide the basis for the day when Somalis themselves will take over completely. I think this is the hard, but the right way to build up Somalia. Finally, I would also say that the Norwegian Somali population with a large resource that Norway can use in Somalia policy and the commitment we are going to have there. I am pleased that Somalia is now one of the 12 leading focus countries from the government, and in that it is the commitment and the knowledge they have – but also the ability to create understanding and insight into what has happened in Somalia, and what can happen – an important resource that should be used politically by the government and by others who are now to help Somalia become a more well-functioning state in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e479	I am grateful to all those who have been involved and contributed in this debate. As the representative Solhjell also had in his perspective: we are one world. And when we discuss Somalia – which is far away from us, but we have the perspective that we have almost been brought together as nations – it shows how closely we are connected and how a tragedy one place can also become a challenge for Norway if we do not decide to solve it together. It has also struck me while I have been working on this interpellation, because it is rare that I have worked on an interpellation and have received as many feedback and input to the interpellation debate as I have now received from Norwegian Somalis in Norway. I have also seen it within my own party; the Norwegian Somalis who are active in the Left have contributed very well with different perspectives here. It brings me to one of the two challenges I intend to give the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the summary. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Solhjell and others insisted that we should be able to use them with Norwegian-somalic competence here in Norway to contribute to this development and build on it. With such a large immigrant group in Norway who has been with us and influenced us, we may also have influenced us a little, and given people a ballast that makes cooperation between Norway and Somalia easier and can get even better quality if we use the resources of the people who have Norwegian-Somalic backgrounds. And then my second challenge is: we now see an Al Shabaab weakening. I believe that the international community should be in place as soon as they are out of a region. As soon as Al Shabaab withdraws, we must quickly be on the ground, contribute to both stability and development in the areas and use the commitment that we now have, to show how development can be made positive despite those who want negative development, and who fire up during the civil war that is actually there. So my two questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs are whether we're going to be more committed to using the Norwegian Somalis in the development of Somalia and whether we're going to be quick on the plate as soon as Al Shabaab withdraws, whether we're going to enter as the international community and help us see a positive development in all the areas that are now being exempted from the iron grip that that that terrorist organisation has had on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e488	Once again, I want to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for putting Somalia on the map. I also thank you for what I experience as a pretty broad support in the UK to make Somalia a focus country. In Somalia, humanitarian aid is involved – humanitarian aid to make the country more resilient in the future, and not least to enable local authorities to do a job. I feel it is a strong support for us to continue to strengthen the government's capacity for budgetary work, financial management and to put in place well-functioning state institutions and agencies in Mogadishu. Not least when it comes to democratisation and the involvement of the people of Somalia, I feel that there is support in the United Kingdom to continue close dialogue with the diaspora in Norway, which has a lot of knowledge and knowledge of development. There's something the Ministry of Foreign Affairs absolutely will do in the future. Then I agree with the representative of Skei Grande that when Al Shabaab is successfully driven out of controlled areas, it is essential that humanitarian aid comes quickly, and that capacity be built on both the educational side and support for girls and women who have been oppressed under Al Shabaab's regime. It's essential. And so it's essential, as I said in my main response, that we now manage to continue a good political inclusive dialogue in Mogadishu, so that it doesn't evolve into a non-productive power struggle between important representatives of political Somalia. You must not get a situation where the winner takes it all, but that everyone is involved, and that they are integrated into this work. Then I am not least referring to the draft struggle that is now taking place between Prime Minister and President. There must be a political solution here. Somalia is also one of the government’s pilot countries in the fight against gender mutilation. This is a work that we will continue. We also have an important work for women's rights, not least with reproductive health, on which the representative Nybakk was involved. There we support a concrete programme through a Norwegian humanitarian organisation. We have also increased — and will increase — support for UN Women's various initiatives in terms of increasing participation of women in the democratic processes in Somalia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e517	Work is important to everyone. Everyone initially agrees that the best welfare thing you really have is to be able to have a job to do. Economically and not least socially, it is important to have a social community with colleagues – that you have a place to go every day where you have the opportunity to take advantage of your abilities and opportunities. This is also why the government is working to make the door of working life wider and higher, so that working life can accommodate more people. Many people who are currently out of work should have the opportunity to get back into work if they have a more flexible working life and not least a working life where they have instruments such as: assistant, wage subsidies, BPA, action places, and not least a general industrial policy. The new IA Agreement aims to increase employment for people with disabilities. To achieve the goals that I think we all agree on, we need to think new, and we need to think creatively. That's why the government put a lot on social entrepreneurship, on people who dare to think new, who dare to think a little outside the box, who dare to think outside of what things have been, rather than figure out how to solve it in the future. Some of the important things about social entrepreneurship are not only the single enterprises that run social entrepreneurship, but all the others that can also learn from the social entrepreneurs. Much of the focus when we talk about people outside of work, and at least outside the ordinary working life, is about people with physical disabilities. That's good. It is important to help that group back to work, as far as possible, but I think we are far too forgetting people with mental retardation. No human being is equal. There is also some reason why I joined the policy, that I have faith in individuals, that all people have their strengths, all people have their weaknesses, all have their challenges, and – not least – everyone has their opportunities. That's why I'm very skeptical about automatically putting people in the booth, and I think we're going to look at the individual regardless of whether you're so-called functionally healthy, disabled or mentally retarded. Human beings must not be placed in booths, but all humans and individuals have the right to be given responsibility, duties, rights and the ability to provide what they can. Interpellation is about people with developmental disabilities, and even among people with developmental disabilities, it is very different from developmental inhibition. It's a collective term, and that's why it's important to treat everyone individually, in line with what we're saying we're going to do with people with physical developmental disabilities or others who're out of work. In 1991, when the HVPU reform was introduced, some of the basic idea behind it was to stop the group thinking, stop the use of large institutions and start treating all people individually and look at the needs, desires and opportunities you have. We have to stop thinking that the only right thing for those with developmental disabilities is that they have to have a daily offer or work in a protected company. That may be right and reasonable for many, but I also believe that very many people with developmental disabilities are unfortunately outside the ordinary working life, although they have a lot to do in the ordinary working life, given that the instruments are there. It's about thinking new, it's about not seeing the obstacles, but seeing the possibilities. I'm glad to be able to set a very good example of some angry entrepreneurs, some angry social entrepreneurs, who are here at the gallery today, Malin, Kim and Daniel. They are now following the debate. In 2012, the company Dagtia AS, which operates Erlandsens Conditori, started. The three have developmental inhibitions, but it didn't stop them. They formed the AS, they own the AS itself, have support players around them and now operate a very popular pastry on basically completely normal terms, in a very ordinary way. I think it's a good example of social entrepreneurs, of entrepreneurs who wanted to create their own job just because they got the little help they needed. The pastry is popular in Halden, it has become known all over Eastfold and soon throughout the country as well. I had even the honour of having to visit them a little while ago and was powerfully impressed by what they had received. They had not looked at the obstacles, but they had looked at the possibilities. They have also received private financial support. They are now dependent on an assistant position, to which the municipality has unfortunately for so long said no, which, unfortunately, means that this good, social entrepreneur enterprise and the pastry are now at risk of being laid down. Economically, of course, it's bad for the public, because it's more expensive for the public if three people have to go on a daily offer than if they're getting an assistant or some other help and assistance. But the economic is not the most important thing here, the most important thing is self-esteem. It's about respect for the individuals. I think this example is so good that it is important that in all the issues we are dealing with, we go through and see if the instruments currently exclude people with developmental disabilities. Some of the tools seem to be able to do it to some extent. We have to go in and see if we can sharpen the tools so that you don't have group thinking if someone has a physical retardation, if someone has a mental retardation or if someone has other challenges, but instead looks at the individual and not least what the individual has. I hope we can have a thorough review and ensure that all residents of Norway are evaluated according to their individual needs, opportunities and wishes and not after group thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e538	First, let me thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic on how to get more people – with their skills and facilities – to participate in the ordinary working life. Let me start with a principle that has always followed me: Every human being is unique. Each human being has a peculiarity and a self-value that is as much worth as any other human being. That self-esteem and the dreams and talents that live in those people, as a society, we must be better off putting into practice in the right way. That's why I'm very happy that you're travelling this interpellation. Initially, I want to follow up on what is also pointed out by the interpellant: have we got a society where it has been read and adopted in a way where people with a developmental disability should hear at home, what opportunities should be allocated to them? If that's the case, we have a political job to do with getting to life those prejudices, those dogmas. For this reason, the government has also set up a separate, broad-based working group to look at how we are to follow up the big message of freedom and equality, which is about people with developmental disabilities, about how to promote concrete, good proposals targeted at these people, where an important part will be how to make it possible for them to participate in the world of work. It is an important and good work that has been started and that was started now in the autumn. I would also like to remind you that this Chamber signed the UN Convention in 2013, which also deals with people with disabilities, and in which it is quite clear that they have the same rights to participate in work as everyone else. This is also something we have to take with us when we are going to shape the new policy. The government is running a series of measures to ensure that more people are given the opportunity to participate in the labour market. Let me mention someone: The government has announced and comes before Christmas with its own proposition and a separate staging message with a message part – in that proposition – where we outline more measures to help people get back to work. It also applies to this group. This can be done, inter alia: with better organisation of work, with more targeted and targeted arrangements. Now I am not going to prejudge the budget negotiations in Stortinget, but in view of the proposal the government has put on the table in the budget, which legislates the right to BPA, which is strengthened by BPA by 300 million. kr, then I hope it can contribute to and be what makes more people get the necessary assistant that you need in order to have a meaningful everyday life, a good quality of life and make good use of their skills and facilities in the workplace. It's an important thing, and it's a proper measure the government comes into this context. In addition, it will also be important, which we are working on and will come back to in this big message and the proposition: how should we better organise pay subsidies schemes and ensure that we can have more targeted pay subsidies schemes, better adapted to individual and individual activities? It is also important – as the government has chosen to do – to continue the job strategy. But there it will also be essential that we, as politicians, not only settle down, lean back and think that we have a job strategy, and that's all right. Every day, labour market policies and job strategies need both to be improved and worked on to see how they can be better structured. I work that and the government focused on every day, and new measures will come. The interpellant attracts a fantastic company from Halden, Erlandsens Conditori. Before I went into the hall, and before we started this interpellation debate, I also had the pleasure of meeting Malin, Kim and Daniel. These are undoubtedly three creative, forward-looking and creative people who have been involved in creating their own job, who create their own business, who deliver in the same way as all other ordinary businesses do, and who do it with enthusiasm, impulsiveness and pride. The spark we see in these people, we must take care of. Based on the spark we see in Malin, Kim and Daniel, we are going to make labour market policies, policy solutions and actions in the future. This will give more people a spark and an opportunity in our society. I would also like to remind you that a few years ago, Norway's School of Business conducted a larger survey and a larger investigation that dealt with what is profitable, and most socio-economically profitable, in terms of day care and VTA sites – permanently organised work. It was clear that the most socio-economically profitable was the commitment to sustainable work, i.e. towards the labour market. This tells me that it is important to ensure the level of action we have in this area. The level of action in the field of permanent work has been increasing for a longer period, and I am pleased that it is good. We still maintain a high level – an average of 9 200 places – also in 2014 and 2015. And then, on average, 1,200 places are used in ordinary business. But I think, and as we also have to challenge, are we satisfied that we're just going to think traditionally? And this I feel that the interpellant also challenges the Council of State and the government. Should we only think of permanent job placements within the sheltered working environment? I think very many will have the benefit of being there, it'll be the security, it'll be the crucial factor in creating the quality of life that many people need, but I also think we have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time and turn a part of the tool use more closely into normal working life. I've also visited companies that run a gas station with VTA sites, and I've visited places where VTA sites are used in different ordinary businesses. I think the future might be that we need to use more of that kind of instruments. It will be a pleasure for those who work in the ordinary business, and it will also be of great benefit to those who enter a business. We all need because all people are unique. That's why we also need to make greater use of this. And this is also one of the measures, the means, that the government is working on every single day to improve labour market policy – just to make sure that we can get even more into the ordinary world of work, that even more people are going to have a connection to the ordinary world of work than what we have today. Finally, let me say that after the great start of the day, the inspiring meeting I had before I went into this room, I know at least where to stop and take the cup of coffee the next time I get to Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e566	The next speaker is the interpellant, the representative of Erlend Wiborg. The President will also consider the possibility of a coffee stop in Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e571	Both the Council of State and the President will take me to the beautiful district of Eastfold and to Halden and the Conditori of Erlands. I also thank you for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State is offensive in this field. I refer you to the working group that's been set up and that's working on this. I also think it's worth looking at the experiences you have from other countries. The Labour and Social Committee was earlier this year in Canada, and what was interesting there was when we asked questions about how they organize working life especially for people with a mental retardation. It was almost like they didn't understand the question. We asked if they had protected businesses — that kind of action — and they almost did not understand the question. There is a starting point that, of course, you have to enter normal working life, but then with the arrangements that make it possible. I am pleased that the Council of State is aware that we need to sharpen the arrangements, and I am also pleased that the Council of State sees that the Conditori of Erlands is a very good example. When we talk about instruments, it has to be that regardless of whether you have a damaged leg, foot or back, whether you have mental challenges, cancer or mental retardation – regardless of what kind of challenges you have – we have to look at the individual, how we can help the individual out of work, rather normal working life, but if that is not possible, we have to look at other measures. We don't just have to look at the challenges or the problems, but we have to look at the possibilities, and then I'm very happy that the Council of State was so clear that we have to turn the use of instruments so that they become individualised, and that we also have to venture to think outside of the box, something the Conditori of Erland and the crowd behind it have done in a great way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e580	I am very pleased with what the interpellant says, that he is reassured by the way the government follows up this question. I also hope – and know – that the representative will challenge both the Council of State and ensure that the Council of State and the Government deliver according to the Government Platform in this area. I don't think we should be able to learn from other countries. I think we have everything to do both looking at other success stories and looking at how we can implement them into the Norwegian way of organizing this. We must never get into a situation where we think we've found all the answers, and that we're all right. Then I'm afraid we'll quickly fang into the blind. It is therefore important to look at good success stories both in Norway and outside Norway, and to look at how we can implement them in Norway. I'm not going to comment on Canada, but I had similar experiences when I was in the United States, and it's not certain that Canada and the United States are so very different about how they deal with that kind of question. I would like to say again that we need to be better at using the ordinary working life. It is a clear and clear objective of this government to do so, and we want to sharpen the policy clearly and clearly so that this objective can be achieved. It's also important, as the interpellant pointed out, that you don't always look at the challenges, but we have to look at the opportunities. I will end with two important attitudes from which I direct my thoughts. One is the slogan of the Nord-Trøndelag County, which is: «Here everything is possible – anyway». You can also use the D.D.E.s demo from the first CD: ‘The impossible e possible’. If you have this with you, I think you will also find the good improvements and the smart solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e595	Let me, like the Council of State, thank the interpellant for raising an important issue, but I must admit that, based on the text of the interpellation, I might have expected a slightly more concrete approach to this debate, rather than a lot of words like ‘eating’ and ‘possibilities’. I had expected it to be a little more concrete, but it should be. The approx. 80,000 people with disabilities are a complex group, and many, as the interpellant points out, have good conditions to participate in the labour market and contribute to employment and value creation for the benefit of society and for themselves. However, the ordinary labour market and the individual employer are not clearly clear about offers to this group – we know – so some arrangements are often necessary. But the interpellant is himself involved in the brilliant example of the Conditori of Erlands, and there are several such examples. Not long ago, our committee was visiting Asker Produkt. Since 2001, they have had a delivery agreement with two funeral agencies on tomb markings and nameplates. When I take a trip to Drammensmarka, the signs that show the way are made by Asker Product, and if the interpellant is a little too far from Eastfold, he can take a trip to the Glade Baker in Asker Centre and let himself be tempted by fresh bakery goods from the same farm. If one is at a conference in the Oslo area and gets served Brimi finger food during the break, it is also Asker Produkt that is the supplier. Here we're not really talking about residual working capacity. We're talking about working ability. The good examples are many, but not enough. The sub-report to the Nav Expert Committee shows in one sentence that those with developmental disabilities are often the losers in terms of job and activity offers. The government reports the same in the draft budget for next year. Despite — in isolation — an increase in the response places for people with disabilities in 2014, this has not been implemented. The objective of disabled persons will not be achieved and the explanation given is that: ‘The deviations are related to the fact that it has proved difficult to implement the changes in the breakdown of actions among the two main groups sufficiently quickly.’; That's kind of a strange explanation in itself. What does that really mean? It is particularly strange from a government that has tried to make its trademark effective. Against this background, I believe that the interpellant's questions about how the Council of State will follow up and organise for more developmentally disabled people to use their working capacity in full or in part in ordinary work are entirely in place. I had, as I said, expected a slightly more specific response, but I hope that the Minister of Labour's Nav Expert Committee goes deeper into that issue in its final report. During the budget debate we will also have the opportunity to come back to this matter. For the time being, I can reveal so much as that the Workers' Party is critical of the Solberg government's proposal to solve the problem of lack of implementation by reducing the number of action places for people with disabilities to next year. On 25 February this year the Stortinget Report was discussed. St. 45 for 2012–2013, Freedom and Equivalence — About people with developmental disabilities, to which the Council of State was also involved, and a unanimous increase called for a selection to be set up by the government to propose measures to strengthen the fundamental rights of people with developmental disabilities. In addition to central rights such as self-determination, legal certainty, health and care, the Storting put particular emphasis on training and labour participation and would have concrete objectives for inclusion policies, with related actions and competences. The selection, also referred to as an expert committee – this under the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion – was set up on 3 October, and one of the points of the mandate is to assess what measures are needed to ensure the right to participation in the labour market for people with developmental disabilities, including those with a disability. in the light of the measures that have been shown to be effective to date. Now, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs may not be able to answer questions about why the top experts on the topic, representatives of the less developed themselves, have not got a place in the sample, but since this seems to be a trend under this government, he may be able to answer it anyway. Finally, a few words about the malpractice reform: it will make it easier to combine social security and work, and the less developed are part of this picture. Now, the question from the inter-pellant alone relates to how to exploit the residual capacity of people with disabilities in the ordinary labour market, but also those who may have such an opportunity, may need measures before they reach this point, and for some, likely work with assistance or permanent work is a more nearby option. To date, the government has unfortunately placed more emphasis on cutting social benefits, cutting measures, pooling measures and postponing the measures that have so far been reserved for the protected sector. Those who are the experts here also protest, but also they seem to speak for deaf ears. Unfortunately, much wrong can happen before the last expert committee makes its recommendations in June 2016, and before the Stortinget can deal with the notified message from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e624	I would like to thank both the interpellant, Erlend Wiborg, and the Council of State, Robert Eriksson, for his good answers. There are several people who have indicated that they want to visit the Conditori of Erlands, and I am happy to be on that list. It might be extra interesting for Stortinget to get a new pastry now that Halvorsen's Conditori is gone. It's a little bit further away. As Chairman of the Committee, following a number of visits, including: Some of these growth enterprises – that’s what strikes me: the enormous pride that this workforce – if you can call them – shows in their jobs. I think of Kolbein Falkeid's beginning at one of his poems, where he says, "I believe in people who burn." No matter what business or place I visit, I never see any people glow more of pride over themselves and over what they make. And when we see what these companies are doing, it's all about canteen operations, pastries – which we've visited several of – steering parts for the automotive industry and electrical components for use in the offshore industry. It's an enormously different arsenal of the different businesses have. We know that several internationally known groups use these companies as subcontractors and provide stable funding – in addition to the contributions of the state and local authorities – to create more permanent job opportunities. We know that there are often waiting lists in these VTA sites in the municipalities. The government continues 9 200 places, like last year. But when we look at how this is financed, it's quite obvious that a lot of it is arranged to either imagine that those working within these measures should be employed in a sheltered enterprise, or that they are paid in an ordinary enterprise and employed by someone else. Erlandsens Conditori is an intermediate solution, which the Stortinget, the government and Nav have not thought so much about. If you get action money if you start on your own within this group, you will either relieve three places of action, which you would have had via Nav County, or three places of daily supply, which the municipality would have had if you had not had places of action. So here, there's obviously a need to look at how we finance the scheme. So we don't have to forget the ones that start off on their own. At the same time, most people in this segment also need sheltered assistance, and therefore the government is strengthening this. At the same time, we see that in these slightly more than 9,000 intervention sites, there are more than 1,200 who use ordinary working life more often and more often. It is also in line with what is stated in the government's Healthy Declaration, that of using wage subsidies to a greater extent, because we see that it has the best effect on getting out of work. For many of these, for example: a permanent salary allowance is as good as a permanent job. But we must not stop focusing on those who actually need sheltered business, and therefore the government is continuing the level of action we have today. The representative Lise Christoffersen is about several things. In some areas, for example: work on assistance and clarification, we increase competition, so that other social entrepreneurs can also enter that market. This is simply because we think that more people will get help, that more people will get better help, and that we will get better results than today. This government has not reduced the number of action places. This government has increased the number of action places compared to the red-green government. But this year we have an adjustment, simply because – as Christoffersen was in it – the apparatus has not been able to get enough space for action from what we have adopted. It's not as good, but we have a bigger hope of reaching it in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e647	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for an important and exciting interpellation. Now I am one of those who have not been visited by the Conditori of Erlandsen, but my good colleague and representative of the Christian People's Party of Eastfold, Line Henriette Hemdal, has boasted a lot, and I recognize myself in the words that were said that it is a café of care and with people showing that they do not see the constraints, but the possibilities. The starting point, as far as the inter-pellant and the Council of State are concerned, I find it incredibly important to have in this type of debate and in these kinds of cases – that people can be allowed to provide, that they can use their properties, that they can contribute either through permanent work or ordinary working life. That's a very important part of the work we're doing. For it creates human dignity, and it is important for the individual to be allowed. When man has an opportunity and a desire to contribute, it is important that we do the best we can to help them into work. I think there are two important points in this debate. The first is that we have to do what we can to create the most inclusive working life possible. In ordinary working life, you can work even if you can't deliver 100 pst. all the time. Then it's important that we get to the people who fall out, as early as possible. If there are people who start falling out, who get sick or experience something that makes everyday life turn upside down, and need adaptation at work, it's incredibly important that we do what we can to prevent them from disappearing. Because the father is that when one disappears, at least the probability that one falls permanently out is much greater than if we take it early. The second track is in several permanent job placements. Although today we are discussing the possibilities and looking at a company that has done a great job, we know, as many people have been involved, that there are some people who are totally dependent on the fact that there is more security around the workplace than they might get in the ordinary working life. That is why I believe it is important that a continued fighter for more places of action, that a continued fighter for long-term job creation, which I am pleased that the Council of State also shows that he is concerned. For what one should not forget, – as the committee chairman also had in mind – is that many of the VTA sites are actually in ordinary working life. In addition, we know that there are people who come further from VTA and into a permanent job, permanent work, in the ordinary working life, without needing, for example. wages and salaries subsidies. The Council of State would not pre-empt budgetary work. Neither shall I, but at least I can clearly warn that the Christian People's Party will help to make things better through the negotiations that are now. I think the Council of State can relax completely, at least it won't be a worse social profile when the final budget is presented. Because, as the Council of State said, the Christian People's Party is very pleased with what the government is doing in the case of VTA, with the work it's put up to there – that a lawmaker's right to VTA. It's a very important offer, and I also think it can help more people use their residual working capacity in the workplace. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) proposes, in its alternative budget, 1000 additional places of action for those with reduced working capacity, and we also add 200 additional VTA places. Hopefully, when we stand here in a small month and discuss the budget, the government can boast that more action places and VTA sites will be implemented next year. Then I look forward to the message that has been notified. I understand that one can't be so specific about the measures now, when there's a message that's right around the corner, but I'm glad that the government has high ambitions, and I look forward to the message and the work that the government wants to present. I record a desire to look at wage subsidies, perhaps wiser and better use of wage subsidies, and how social entrepreneurship can help these people. In the case of tenders, I will use the perspective of the interpellant – that all people are unique. It's not a shelf product we're talking about, it's not the construction of anything simple. These are different people who have different needs, and from the Christian People's Party we have signaled all the way that we are very sceptical about offers, precisely because it's not as easy as entering a bid to build a building or buy some things. These are people who have different needs and who therefore need to be seen individually, and there is a danger that tenders may cause the weakest to lose. But we look forward to the work that the Storting will do for the next six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e664	I would also like to thank you for an important interpellation. When we're going to discuss the issue of those of us who have reduced working capacity, we're not going to ignore it in relation to the big labour market. The large labour market is changing considerably. This applies both to maritime operators and to employees. These are changes which increase the uncertainty of income for more and more professional groups. Many who work in professions with high access to workers from high unemployment and low income countries feel that the Norwegian model, with safe, predictable incomes that provide the basis for living in a high-cost country, is confusing. It's an important back carpet. If we do not succeed in the ordinary labour market, it will be even more difficult for those who have reduced their ability to work, to have faith in it and to have a joy in their lives. Today, people with disabilities experience displacement, the so-called displacement effect. This affects maritime people with reduced working capacity first. At the turn of the year, there were 208 000 people with reduced working capacity. This is becoming increasingly demanding to correct. There is an increasing need for economic instruments to do a job with people with disabilities when we have such a development in the ordinary labour market – I cannot stress that strongly enough. Stronger instruments are needed if the social insecurity is to increase elsewhere. The interpellant starts with the following sentence: ‘The government has been clear that it is a goal to help more people enter the labour market.’ That's great. This is also the goal of the Center Party. When people hear this sentence, most people understand it so that the government wants to organize more people into the world of work so that they can live off their incomes. That's the Central Party's understanding of it. I'm not sure it's the government's understanding of it, but it's important to clarify it. When the interpellant goes on to say that there are measures that provide more flexibility in working life that are part of the solution, because there is room for more, how are the words ‘flexibility in working life’ perceived by those on the floor? Well, it's perceived by most people as a more unsafe working life. That's the actual ratio. For the Centre Party, the security of income is to live off when a worker, the point — social security, so that it provides the labour force with income to live off in the high-cost country in which we live. That's what's at the core. People with developmental disabilities need security, just like most people. As far as this area is concerned, I have to say that in the years I have been on the Stortinget, there have been numerous interviews and suggestions about this. And I have to say it straight out: there has unfortunately been too much talk – too much talk – in this area. Nav needs a clean-up of measures and rules. One has to simplify the measures, and one has to go much more straight to the target. It is obvious that we need to have a large amount of permanent job placements, which a public office is the best way to operate. We have a lot of experience with that. In addition, participation in ordinary, income-intensive work comes – whether it is a public employer or a private employer. Here, in the opinion of the Center Party, we're going to fail the most. We need to invest much more in fixed-term and non-temporary wage subsidies, so that those with reduced working capacity, including the disabled, can get a regular job where the income they receive is from an employer who has its income base from the work done and from public assistance. Here I believe that the Council of State is now receiving the same counterclaims that former government councils have received – both from some actors in the labour market and from the Ministry of Finance – that this is not an appropriate approach. If something is going to happen out of this, one has to break these barriers -- dry to say that here there's a power roof needed. Here we're not talking about a few hundred new places. Anyone who is in the Nav system and knows about this is experiencing what despair it is. There are many people who could have needed this, but the money doesn't stretch.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e692	I commend the representative Wiborg for raising an important matter in his interpellation, but the most important rose I can give today, goes to the crowd standing behind the Conditori of Erlands. It's a bunch of people who've done a great job. Here one shows the entrepreneurial spirit and good entrepreneurial work in one's business, and one shows a stand-to-stand that one just has to admire. This road is not trailed up by itself. The Conditori of Erland is also a happy example of the fact that the time of idealism is far from over. We see that three people with developmental disabilities, well-helped by volunteers, have the power to create their own jobs, and it is incredibly important to build up under idealism and volunteering and social entrepreneurship. Why is that? Yes, because the challenges of including people with developmental disabilities in the labour market are still great. The need for action places is growing. The Labour Research Institute commissioned the Ministry of Labour to map the need for VTA sites, i.e. permanent work, for people with developmental disabilities, and they estimated that there was a need of about 4,600. That 2012 report was based on current practice, i.e. the need to be reasonably self-held in order to have a place of action, but there are hardly any people in working age who do not need work. Based on this approach, the real need for intervention sites can be expected to be much higher for people with developmental disabilities. In the last growing-up period, the Progress Party was very good at promoting the interests of people with developmental disabilities. We saw in the 2012 budget that the representatives of the Progress Party proposed an additional appropriation of 1.36 billion. kr for labour market measures. In the 2013 alternative state budget of the Progress Party, the budget increased by 229 million. kr for a strengthening of 2000 VTA sites. In Document 8:129 S for 2011-2012, Robert Eriksson, the other then-representative of gross domestic product, made a proposal for the establishment of a contingency plan ‘which takes into account the intention of persons with developmental disabilities to adapt to education where the objective is work, real work performance assessment and a suitable job.’» However, in this year’s government budget, there is no measure to strengthen labour market measures — on the contrary, we see a real reduction. There is no labour force escalation plan drawn up or notified. I am very pleased that we have a Minister of Labour with such a strong commitment to an important matter in this area, but I still miss a policy that gives predictability. If there is something we know that there is no predictability, there is a policy that offers to the lowest offerer people with a developmental disability – that is, a tendering policy that the government has notified that they want to, in order to put them at risk under good wishes for people with a developmental disability and people's place in the labour market. SV works to ensure that all people have equal opportunities, regardless of whether you are the daughter of a director, the son of a cleaner, where you live, or whether you are disabled or not. But for that to be possible, one must have a predictable policy. We need to know what floor we're going to be on, what are the planks in the welfare state on which we're all going to build our lives. In the case of people with developmental disabilities, predictability in terms of housing, leisure and work policies is very important, because we know that all people have resources, but not everyone is given the opportunity to use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e707	I would also like to add myself to the range of those who thank the interpellant Wiborg for addressing this important matter. Especially amusing is that he does it the very day I'm inside as being, because as a stallion, of course, I'm very proud of both Erlandsens Conditori, of those who work there, and not least of those who are initiators of this great action. It is very good that we get focus on it, but also that we have an opportunity to debate the possibility of people with development disabilities to participate in the labour market. I am also among those who have been so lucky enough to be allowed to visit Erlandsens Conditori and meet the three who work there, but I have also met those who are initiators and helpers for those who work there. They all deserve honor – for the effort they make, but also for the creativity and the momentum they show. They've met a lot of counter-grounds, but they're still on, and that's pretty amazing. Malin, Kim Robin and Daniel are three engaged young people who – as said several times here – run their own jobs. Zealous and faithful they meet at work every day. They delight many Haldensers with their good mood and their stand-on-will. A little like the Halvorsens Conditori here in Oslo is Erlandsens Conditori in Halden an institution. It's been running for very, very many years, and these three carry on the long tradition in a very good way. But young people need help with some jobs, and that's where the challenge lies. I support the fact that we should find solutions in labour market measures, but then we should strengthen the measures for people with disabilities – not cut them. The initiators behind Erlandsens Conditori are idealists and have worked for a long time to ensure the operation there. There is no doubt that this measure is a very good offer for the three who work at Erlandsen. I really hope that the young people at Erlandsen will keep their jobs, and that such good initiatives and actions will receive predictable support in the future. Erlandsens Conditori is a great action that suits Malin, Kim Robin and Daniel very well, but it is nevertheless important to bear in mind that such measures require a high level of initiative for idealists who are behind them. Unfortunately, our country is not overcrowded with. It is therefore also important that measures such as permanent work and other working arrangements are strengthened and expanded. It's all about, just like the interpellant said, focusing on everyone's differences, and everyone's having different needs and opportunities. Halden Municipality, in which Erlandsens Conditori is located, is a low-income municipality with quite a poor economy. It has also been experienced by those with reduced development. There is constant pressure on their daily offers and new proposals for cuts. Nor does it seem particularly desirable for the local economy in next year's draft budget, so I hope the Minister has some measures that will ensure the offer to other people with disabilities, so that they can have a job or a day's activity. The Minister shall be commended for his commitment to the development of the disabled. When he was in opposition, he promoted several good proposals, which the representative of Bergstø referred to earlier – both that the 2012 draft budget sought a much more offensive and targeted job strategy and proposed to allocate more money, and that the Minister, together with several others, proposed the following in a document 8 proposal: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a stepping-up plan, by February 2013, which will ensure that people with developmental disabilities are given the opportunity to adapt to education where the objective is work, real work performance assessment and an appropriate job.’ I hope and believe that the Minister in position has as much commitment to the developmental handicapped as he had in the opposition, and I was pleased to hear that he had started a work committee that worked extensively with these challenges. Propositions and plans are great, but they have to be accompanied by funds. In the government’s proposals for the 2015 government budget, the Minister of Labour may seem to have forgotten his previous battles. It is difficult to find the focus on labour market measures. So I hope the Minister will take along his previous proposals from his time in opposition to the budget negotiations, and will find room for some badly needed, good work life measures for those with reduced working capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e731	I would also like to put myself in the sequence and thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic. People with disabilities are as diverse a group as the rest of the population. Some people have disabilities that can easily be compensated for by aids, others have other types of disabilities and need much or little help and support, depending on the individual’s struggles. What is important to point out is: Disability is not the same as reduced working capacity, for working capacity only includes the degree of ability to perform a particular type of work. With facilities and some support, often simple measures, disabled people work just as well as those who do not have disabilities. Work is important in order to live a free and independent life. In addition, we also know that the workplace is the most important social arena and the network that people have outside their family. The job is not only important as a source of income, it is also important as a good social network. The Government is committed to increasing efforts in this area and will follow up the United Nations Convention on Disability, which Norway ratified last year. We want a society with space and opportunity for everyone, regardless of their function. When we dealt with Meld. St. 45 for 2012–2013 Freedom and equivalency, which is about people with developmental disabilities, earlier this year, was one of the important issues at work. Several were concerned about the need for more people with developmental disabilities to try out in normal working life. The school should provide more practical training for those students who struggle with theory and are mentally weak, that they could rather gain more training and knowledge in something that could give them some kind of practical basic competence, which may be relevant to a job, and qualify for employment. Not all jobs require a bachelor's degree or a diploma. I am glad that the Council of State was also concerned with thinking more organized work into normal working life. If we are to succeed, we must have a working life that takes social responsibility, a working life where leaders do not see themselves blind to constraints, but see opportunities. We have to work to change attitudes and practices. Changing attitudes is not something we can adopt – there are processes that need to be started by someone going ahead and showing the way. It is important with good examples, as the interpellant pointed out from Halden: Erlandsens Conditori. What the representative Lise Christoffersen referred to from the municipality of Asker, and which I know well, Asker Produkt, is also a very good example of someone going ahead and showing the way. We must not be so anxious to try out new things, nor to let go of more actors. Employers must be assured that they dare to release workers to whom they may initially be sceptical. It is therefore important to inform about the organisation arrangements and wage subsidies offered by Nav. They're good to have. In addition, as many have mentioned, permanent job placements in sheltered enterprises are important for those who need a lot of support and assistance in the workplace. It is important to see the individual human being and not let scepticism and systems stand in the way of the good solutions. In the work of including as much as possible, we have to let go of all the good forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e752	I would first like to thank you for a good debate. I am also pleased that so many participated in it. The intention behind the debate was both to raise this issue in awareness and not least to set a good example that should be a follow-up for others. The way I designed the interpellation, I chose to initially avoid a party political polemics, and I think it's a pity that Lise Christoffersen in particular chose to go to a political polemics instead of discussing the issue. Had I wanted a political polemic, of course I could have focused on the fact that the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government failed in terms of user-driven personal assistance, BPA, something the government is now celebrating, but I deliberately chose not to mention that, because I did not want the political polemics. The representative, Lundtegen, made a lot of sense. He talked a lot about the economic aspect of the importance of a job, but I think it's very important to focus on the other aspects of having a job, which is about self-esteem, about social life and about college. I also think that the representative Lundtigen and more bombed when they were in the constant discussion about public versus private, whether we should let more people go within different types of measures, or whether only the public should do so. I believe that the example we have here today, Erlandsens Conditori, which is a private limited company operating in the private market and competing every day, shows that we don't have to be so afraid of private operators. I think there are very few people in this room who think that the Conditori of Erlands is very scary. On the contrary, we have seen from the debate that everyone believes that Erlandsens Conditori and several others are good examples. I also think that the representative Kirsti Bergstø was concerned about something important, that the rose here should go to Erlandsens Conditori because it is a good example. Their example has also shown that everything is possible if you just do what you can and try to break with some so-called truths. I hope that the municipality of Halden has got this debate and turns around and see if they can now contribute to a solution here, because now it is time to go from many fine words to actually concrete action. I'm glad the Council of State was so offensive, and hopefully Halden's taking responsibility here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e769	Thank you for a lot of good input and a good debate. Let me try to sign out some of the things that have been said here: It is claimed that I was not concrete in my post on what the government is doing. I believe that what we have come up with is quite specific: We signed a clear IA agreement at the beginning of March of this year, where the parties and the government agree to sharpen both the way of setting up the organisation arrangements and not least the pay subsidies. That work is in full swing. We'll do that before Christmas. That's a good way to do it, and that's very concrete. The fact that the BLD has started working on this sample to follow up that big message is concrete, good and targeted. It is also concrete and good when we in the State budget, among other things. increases the appropriations for the function assistant by 10 pst., which gives more people the opportunity to be assisted and thus to do a job. It's targeted, good and concrete when we make 300 million. NOK more to BPA, so that more people can get the opportunity to get help to work. I agree with the representative of Christoffersen on the implementation of measures in Nav for the current year. I am not satisfied that it has not been possible to follow up and implement the measures adopted by the Storting. It shouldn't be like that. That is why I and the Department have started a work, where we carry out an external review of why what has happened has happened, and where we have clear, concrete and regular meetings with Nav to ensure that the action taken by Stortinget is implemented. We have to be close from the political side to make sure that we do not end up in the same situation in the future. It would have been really interesting to be able to comment on mass. The process of reform is good. The representative of Lundtigen points out that we need to have action simplification in Nav, and that we need to go more straight to the goal. I agree with the representative Lundtigen, and therefore work on how we can target and simplify the measures – so that people get action faster and more people get proper help in the right time, so that they get out of work – is started and soon finished. In conclusion, I would like to say that this government does not have any slowdown in action places for people with disabilities. In 2013, the government carried out 54 300 posts, and in 2015 it was added to a 56 700-place action run, which is more than what the Stoltenberg government did. The representative Eriksson made many good suggestions, but I registered that they were voted down by SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party when he was in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e792	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e806	It is a unanimous committee that supports this proposal. The case is based on the establishment of the four Regulations previously adopted, known as the Single European Sky. Actually, most people know more about the English version, Single European Sky, SES – SES I – which was incorporated into the EEA Agreement and entered into force in 2004. Experience with the first package showed that there was room for improvement and amending regulations were launched. Like the SES I Regulation, SES II does not entail any changes in the sovereignty of Member States over national airspace and – not least – public order, security and defence control requirements. The SES II Regulation, on which this issue is concerned, aims to further improve the safety and efficiency of air traffic management in Europe – in order to make it a little simpler: to adapt air traffic street systems in the air to become simpler, to make more direct routes and to improve capacity, which in turn results in less emissions and more environmentally sound transport. The renewal of the technology used in aviation is developed through the SESAR programme. Comprehensive governance structures are being built to ensure this, together with a 3 billion EU funding. EUR – at the disposal of the budgets under something called the CEF Regulation, i.e. Connecting Europe Facility. Affected actors, as we then see, for example: Norwegian, SAS and Onkøe may apply for a contribution from it to cover those investment costs. The government will also assess the impact on Norwegian actors and the need for compensatory measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e817	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e831	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e845	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e854	I am delighted today to present a great journey promise in Northern Ireland, for a total of 2.8 billion. kr. The Bodø urban package is a collaboration between the municipality of Bodø, the municipality of Nordland, the state road network and the railway station. The Bodø urban package is mentioned in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. The proposal includes the development and financing of road projects and actions in the municipality of Bodø, called the Urban Package Bodø. In addition, there are proposals for changes to the tariff and discount supplements for the project rv. 80 Løding–Vikan, Tverlandsbrua, so that this will be coordinated with the Urban Package Bodø toll system. The aim of the Bodø urban package is to build a new and traffic-safe access road to Bodø while at the same time facilitating pedestrians, cyclists and public travellers. The aim of the project is to reduce the number of fatalities and serious injuries in traffic and to increase the number of persons travelling, cycling or using public transport. It also aims to reduce road traffic noise. The Bodø urban package will further develop Bodø as an attractive city to live and operate in by promoting efficient, environmentally friendly and safe transport. The funding plan for Citypackakket Bodø has a total framework of 2,820 million. 2014-kronor. Measures for walking and cycling, including road safety measures, have a financial envelope of 500 million. kr, and public transport measures have a financial envelope of 210 million. kr. In addition, the municipality of Nordland will strengthen collective provision by increasing the operating grant by a total of 59 million. NOK in the period until 2021. In addition, it is planned to build a new station for trains in the transverse region under the direction of the Railway Agency. The total frame has increased from 2.2 billion. DKK to 2.8 billion Compared to what was used in the local policy decisions taken in 2011. The amount of toll in the financing plan is above 2 billion. kr, corresponding to 72 pst. of the overall framework. The toll collection is planned to start in 2015. The proposition is that toll collection in the Urban Package Bodø is to be coordinated with the collection of Tverlandsbrua, where the collection started in 2013. There's a flat discount of 10 pst. for all vehicles and a roof of 80 passages per calendar month, as well as an hourly rule for the coordinated toll project. The toll scheme in this proposition is based on a calculational interest rate of 6,5 pst. However, the real interest rate is significantly lower than this, and the Committee therefore proposes that the effect of lower interest rates of up to 460 million be achieved. kr, may be used at lower fares or more roads. During the examination in the committee, we have received input from local authorities that they want more access to the package. Bodø Municipality asks that a new trasé to Bodø Port be included as part of the Bodø Urban Package and indicates that such an extension will be essential for Bodø as an intermodal freight hub, Bodø’s opportunities for centre development and opportunities for further development of the Nordsia and Rønvika districts. I am very pleased that the committee agrees with this, and that the government parties in the committee will also have more way than what was proposed by the government, but we are divided into the view whether to allow all or part of the amount – the space for action – to be used in more ways. The majority of government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left assume that local negotiations are opened with the Municipality of Bodø on how parts of the economic space can be used, while the Workers' Party and the Centre are opening up to use the entire space for action. It is also worth noting that there is a majority of the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, who support the Bodø Municipality, who say: ‘We therefore ask the Stortinget to approve an extension of several measures into the Bypakket Bodø in the final reading. In concrete terms, we want the Urban Package Bodø to be extended to include a line between Riksveg 80/Gjerdåsvegen and Bodø Havn.» In addition, the majority says: ‘This majority would stress that they support the Municipality of Bodø, which is committed to getting ‘more money’ instead of only lowering the toll tax as a result of a calculational interest rate of 2.8 pst. instead of 6,5 pst.’ If the Stortinge agrees with the observation made by the majority, we should go for the Workers' Party and the Central Party's addition to the position, and I am promoting the minority proposal, but at the same time signaling that we will subsidize the majority's addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e896	The representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e899	There is reason to congratulate the municipality of Bodø and surrounding municipalities for putting them in place City pack Bodø. It is a long-term measure, which will improve the traffic situation in the city for those who rely on the use of a car and equally for those who want to go, ride bicycles or use public transport. Urban packages in cities of Bodø’s size are often about addressing challenges on the roads. The city is growing, and the road that once was a satisfactory route has gradually become too small in capacity and not a standard that ensures road safety, soft road users and noise and pollution problems in a good way. Lack of capacity on the access route also creates considerable restrictions on the municipality's desire to develop a good collective offer. When a new and modern route is built, it is particularly nice to see that there is also a commitment to developing a better collective service. The financing of the Bodø Urban Package is based on the collection of tolls and state, county and municipal funds. Of the total financial envelope of 2.8 billion. kr represents State resources of 542 million. kr and the municipal and municipal funds total 253 million. kr. The remainder is financed by tolls. It is also a prerequisite for the collection of tolls in the Urban Package of Bodø to be coordinated with the collection of Tverlandsbrua by applying the hourly rule in both projects. This means that the collection rate of 80 passages per vehicle per month shall apply both to the Urban package Bodø and to the Tverlandsbrua. In the context of the KS2 for the Urban Package Bodø, the external quality assurance system recommended that a device other than that on which the proposal is based is assessed, inter alia. one-off collection. In view of this and in line with the transitional arrangements for the interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans, the Ministry of Transport proposes that changes may be made to the tariff and collection arrangements. In order to obtain as effective and rational a collection as possible, it is natural that the Ministry of Transport should be given the necessary powers to make such changes in consultation with local authorities. Since the government promoted the proposition for Stortinget, a letter has been received from the Municipality of Bodø requesting to assess a new trajectory between Rv. 80/Gjerdåsveien and Bodø port. The government’s constructive approach to the use of computational interest rates means that there is, in fact, room for action both to make the toll collection more efficient, to set lower tariffs and to assess the request made by the municipality of Bodø. We are therefore in favour of a dialogue between the municipality, the county and the department to find a good solution. For our part, we have a pragmatic approach to this and are looking for solutions that can provide the best development for Bodø City, and with a reasonable relationship between public funding and tolls. As the rapporteur said, there is a broad consensus on implementing the Bodø Urban Package, and there is a broad consensus that the Ministry of Transport should start a dialogue with local authorities in order to find the best possible solution to the arrival at Bodø Port. The fact that the rapporteur tries to present it as a discrepancy does well to fall on his own unfairness. The basis for the fact that there is a room for action and an opportunity to assess the recording from the municipality of Bodø is the more pragmatic attitude of this government towards the arrangement of the toll collection. Now it is important to focus on the implementation of the Urban Package Bodø for the benefit of the city and its inhabitants, and then I am sure that the dialogue between the ministry and local authorities will provide the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e918	I think both the case rapporteur and the representative of the place have explained well the content of the matter. What I think is very gratifying about the matter of Citypakket Bodø is that most of the funds should go to direct road appropriations, thus building a new and road-safe access route to Bodø. Today's rv. 80 is not dimensioned for the large traffic growth that has been in recent years and that will come, and the route has been marked by many road accidents involving injuries and poor organisation for vulnerable road users. This package will ensure that road safety for both drivers and other road users will be significantly enhanced. Otherwise, it is very gratifying to see that the majority would also like to open up the possibility for an increased economic space to be used at local level for the development of new access to the port of Bodø, which would help to strengthen the port as a good spot. In the Progress Party, we are therefore positive that the government can enter into negotiations with the Municipality of Bodø on the increased space for action. When we first talk about economics, we find that the rate of the urban package is set at NOK 15 for light vehicles, but that the toll scheme in this proposition is based on a calculation rate of PST 6.5. Against the background of the transitional regime adopted by the Stortinget in connection with the treatment of Prop. 119 S for 2013–2014, it opens up so that we can make changes to the pricing and collection structure and that local authorities are offered the opportunity to base tariffs on a lower interest rate. The Ministry of Transport wants the authority of Storting to be able to change tariffs, introduce one-way collection and reduce the number of toll stations after consultation with local authorities, and of course I will be there to give them that authority. The possibility of getting a new path to the Bodø port is positive, and the possibility of changing fares, combined with the announced toll reform, where we want to reduce today's many toll companies to a few, will open up the possibility that the fares at the City Package Bodø may be reduced, which will benefit the drivers, and they will also have the opportunity to get more money that they pay in, which is very enjoyable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e933	The proposition of extending and financing the so-called Bodø package must well be the continuation of the celebration of the grand cultural house Stormen, which was opened this weekend and which made the rapporteur in Bodø Norway's happiest rapporteur. A new and traffic-safe route to Bodø, while facilitating walking, cycling and those travelling collectively, is a long-awaited project for Bodø and the region. We have noted ourselves as one of the very positive consequences of the implementation of the project. The fact that the number of persons walking, cycling or using public transport means is to be at least 21 p.m. and that the number of traffic noise plagues is to be reduced by 25 p.m. is also very important and positive gains in the project. The project and how it is financed have been well explained by the case rapporteur, and I will not repeat it. We have otherwise noticed the dialogue that has been with the municipality of Bodø, which is about the exploitation of the action space at approx. 460 million. kr, as a result of a lower interest rate. I would like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office, Juvik, for the dialogue he has had with the Municipality of Bodø to exploit this space of action in a forward-looking and good way for the Municipality of Bodø and the region. The Christian People's Party understands that a strong growth in Bodø and its surroundings make it extra necessary to get better organized for an intermodal node through a new trajectory between Rv. 80 and Bodø port. Such a solution will clearly address transport needs related to entry and exit from the Rønvik and Nordsia districts in a forward-looking way. It is therefore important for the Christian People's Party, together with the room for action that a lower interest rate has been provided, to try to address this transport need. We have therefore – together with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – proposed a decision under II to open local negotiations with the Municipality of Bodø on how this can contribute to giving new access to the port of Bodø. The Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left, has also made it clear, in its own majority opinion, that we support the Municipality of Bodø in getting more money by extending the Urban Package Bodø to include a trajectory between Rv. 80/Gjerdåsvejen and Bodø Hafen — instead of using the action space to lower the toll tax. That means that we from the Christian People's Party have signaled that one of the spaces of action is about. 460 million. kr may use what is necessary to provide a good solution as regards access to the port of Bodø. A cross-political consensus in the Municipality of Bodø on how to exploit the economic space is a clear signal to find a forward-looking solution to meet the needs of the municipality and region in this area. It may take a long time before a similar opportunity is given to address the traffic challenges referred to by a new service link to Bodø port. In the Christian People's Party, therefore, we have faith that the Ministry and the Bodø Municipality together will be able to arrive at a solution within the economic space that is creating a new and forward-looking connection to Bodø Port, as part of the Bodø package.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e950	I am very pleased that we now have Citypackaklet Bodø for treatment. It is important to set up a new and traffic-proof entrance to Bodø, a road that has increased traffic and has had it for a long time. It is also important that we facilitate walking, cycling and increasing collective use. When we dealt with the national transport plan in the previous period, we decided that we should use the ‘combination concept’ for the development of the urban package. It was important to ensure the transport of nutrients both in and out of town and down to the port – this is a road that also connects the Salt with the Lofoten at the ferries that cross the Westfjord. We also wanted to strengthen the provision of collective services, including: by then we decided that we would have a new place to hold the Nordlandsbanen on the Tverland, which is important both in the Salt and for those who are going in and out of this area. We also wanted to further develop the route that started when Tverlandsbrua was adopted. This is an important project – which both the rapporteur and others have pointed out – in developing Bodø as an attractive city. But it's, as I've also been involved, important for business to ensure an effective way that links Bodø and Rv. 80 closer to the port. It is important for road safety, as there have been many road accidents. It is – as we have said – increasing traffic, and there are some traffic-painted areas that have made today’s solution challenges. I am very pleased that the committee and the work in Stortinget have made it clear that Bodø Municipality's desire to use the economic space that results from lower interest rates is – as they say – to get more money. This means that following the call on which there is a cross-political consensus in Bodø, this can also be developed to include a link between RVs. 80 Gjerdåsvegen and Bodø port. The formulations are, as they have come up in the hall today, different. There's also a different majority in the committee, but I think that's an equal intention in what you're really saying. You want to try to get a new trasé that connects the port more closely. The center party is very pleased with this pragmatic approach, and it's important that we actually manage to get this solution in place. It'll be good not just for Bodø, but for Nordland. This means that I find good reason to congratulate both Bodø and Nordland on getting this project in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e965	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for a good proposal and work and, not least, thank you for the good reflections so far from the other members of the Committee. Bodø is a growing city and is becoming an important regional centre, and we need to support that. For the Left, it is most important to increase the number of people using bicycles, corridors and public transport as their means of origin. It is important that this proportion increases as much as possible and at least represents 21 pst, and that we are able to reduce road traffic noise by up to 25 pst. This will be health promotion, it will be traffic friendly, and not least it will be very good for the environment. The road package shortens travel time to Fauske. That is good, but we would like to stress the importance of the Bodø-Rognan local train. Today the capacity is close to full, and there are a lot of people standing on the train. Here, there's room for increasing the capacity and maybe also the frequency. It should be part of the assessment when creating a comprehensive transport system for the region. In fact, this is the smallest city centre where the local train is such an important part of the provision of traffic. It has to keep doing that. And if politicians first want people to travel more by train, we also have to organize it and bet on it. Contributing to more capacity on the Bodø-Rognan local train is an important point on which we in the Left believe it should be more focused. Furthermore, the Left, together with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, are involved in the proposal that there should be local negotiations to use parts of the increased economic space for a new port route, and not just for reduced bomb prices. The left remains at the co-operation agreement with the government on reduced bomb tariffs in new projects, but primarily we believe that the efficiency gain should go towards more and better infrastructure. That is why the solution chosen is very good for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e978	Urban packages are important instruments for green cities, and in the work of the Urban Package Bodø, SV’s local team has worked to raise public transport, for people and goods, and not least bicycle and pedestrian routes as part of the package. To some extent, our team believes that this has been achieved in the proposal that is now available. Therefore, SV at Stortinget will also support Citypackaklet Bodø in this vote. While this effort to promote environmentally friendly urban transport is important for local air quality and public health, it is also important to achieve our national targets set by the Storting to reduce greenhouse gas emissions – and not least to get good maritime solutions. SV is also for new road down to Bodø port. We want to send as much goods as possible by boat. In order to achieve a good solution to this problem, trails must have direct access to the port and not swirl through the centres and residential areas as they are now. SV will not lower the toll rate in the economic space. I would also like to inform you that SV supports the Centre Party and the views of the Working Party formulated as minority proposals in the Committee's position, which reads: ‘The Ministry of Transport is authorised to conclude an agreement with local authorities to extend, where appropriate, the Urban Package Bodø instead of reducing the tariffs only as a result of a lower calculation technical interest rate. The economic scope underpinning any extension of the Urban Package Bodø is the difference between the theoretical financing costs with a calculation technical interest rate of 6,5 pst. versus 2,8 pst.» Finally, I would like to greet the inhabitants of Bodø and wish them luck with the plans that are now taking shape. I hope that, as a result of the Urban Package Bodø, we will get a good solution for the port and get good traffic solutions in Bodø that can lift the public transport and improve the opportunities for walking and cycling.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e996	This is an important matter for Bodø – not just for the city of Bodø, but for the whole region. It is important for the development of a common housing and labour market in Stor-Bodø. It's part of a further development where a cutter travel time between Bodø and Fauske, which makes it more attractive for people to move to the area. It's good for business, it's good for the jobs, and it's good for the people, no matter how you do it. I have visited Bodø and the region a number of times in the last year after I became the Council of State. It is an important aviation environment on which to build. It's an important cluster of knowledge. It represents an important port. During the E6 tour that I drove in June-July, Bodø was one of the natural stops, although it is a bit from E6, just because Bodø is important. It is also important that we promote efficient, environmentally friendly and safe transport. It represents one by building a better road, by expanding public transport, by facilitating more departures over time on the Salt Pendulum. We do that in this round by repairing the infrastructure at the stations – the cross-border connection is located here, the Reitan station is inside the budget. This means that on a later occasion you can get more train departures and better train sets, so that it becomes more comfortable to travel. By getting more flexibility on the journeys, regardless of whether a traveler travels by car, walks, bikes, takes a train or a bus, makes it more attractive to choose away the car, simply because if there are several bus departures and several train departures, then one has the flexibility you need to avoid having the car and rather sit and let others drive, could be on iPad or other things and spend the time more efficiently. In addition, it is about road safety. In the last ten years, three people have been killed in traffic in the vicinity, 10 people have been severely injured and 141 people have been more likely to be injured. Increased road safety is important, and the joy that one’s closest is healthy and fast, and that one does not experience road accidents cannot be measured in money. This is an important motivation when the government has presented the Bodø package. It is also gratifying that a total stagnation is so strong in support of this. This is primarily an important road project. The Hunstadmoen–Thalleskreuzet section on Rv. 80 is the dominant project in the package. After driving the route myself many times – with very different standards and quality on the road – I see absolutely a need for a uniform four-field standard. So one also gets a long two-way tunnel from Hunstadmoen to Bodølv, which will make the emergence better both in terms of safety and in time. Time is important for commuters, and time is important for business, and here we can beat many flies in one taste. Then I'm also very happy that the Storting is positive and almost striving to back up the changes that are now taking place in the toll sector. By having a different approach to the calculation technical interest rate up to now, a few released funds will allow one to reduce toll tariffs, reduce downtime or dispose of them to projects locally. I am very pleased that Stortinget gives the government the authority to find the best solutions with local authorities. There may be a combination of these factors. This may mean that one has one way instead of two-way collection, it may mean that one removes toll stations if appropriate – simply to save operating costs – or it may mean that one expands the projects where it makes sense. This is a work that I can promise we will do in good dialogue with the local authorities, just to get the solution for Bodø that is the most important. I would like to stress here that part of our toll reform is a lower calculation technical interest rate, but it is only a transitional arrangement. The real savings for drivers and residents in Bodø are about reducing administrative costs, reducing financing costs. Only changing calculation technical assumptions does not result in long-term savings; it only shifts costs. In fact, reducing the interest rate by bringing together funding through several merged companies is the way one gets more money back. So that's how Bodø is a region that has a lot of good news that we have a new government with a different way of thinking about tolls. For the road project Helgeland Nord, the drivers in Nordland saved more than 400 million. kr for a government change by making a more economic contribution. In addition, the interest compensation scheme will also be there as an additional gain, and I think all drivers are delighted about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1016	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1019	The working party is dedicated to getting the best possible way for the money. In the announced toll reform by the government, it has so far only been a matter of reducing toll tariffs as a result of changes in standard rates. In today's setting, government parties also open up to get more access to the Bodø package instead of just setting down the toll tariffs. The drivers won't get any more toll because of this grip – you stick to the original tariffs. My question is: does this mean that the Council of State and the government will also open up to future toll projects the principle of getting the most out of the money, and not just to reduce the bomb charges? In the posts of the Council of State, I could record that he also had it as a possible scenario.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1028	Getting the most for the money has been the principle of the Advance Party and the Right both in government and in opposition. It was under the previous government that we saw that the toll debt doubled and quadrupled. This means increased interest costs, increased administrative costs, which drivers have to pay – that is, less money paid by drivers from their wallet. Now we get changes here. In the changes we saw in the package from Helgeland North, there were increased appropriations from the state, which means more money because interest expenditures are reduced. We're removing a toll station. This means reduced administrative costs and, in addition, lower real interest rates will be paid by introducing the interest compensation scheme. That's what gives more weight to the money, which is the exact opposite of what the previous government did, but of course we'll also listen to the signals from the Stortinge in connection with this package. If there are sensible projects that can be carried out in a cost-effective way, we will go in cooperation with the municipalities and county councils about it, just as I mentioned in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1035	In the Helgeland road package, they probably didn't get any more way even if they got more money. In today's setting of the Bodø package, among other things, The Workers' Party stressed that there is an economic scope for even more 460 million. kr. This is the sum of 6.5 pst. and 2.8 pst. The majority of the Committee agrees with that assessment, and it is also included in the case study. It also appears that the government parties agree on the present space for action to resolve the access to Bodø port. My questions are then: The Council of State agrees that the economic space for action seems to be 460 million. Do you really want to delete this item? And as a follow-up: how much does the Council of State see separately going to go to more in the Bodø package, and how much does the Council of State see separately going to lower toll tariffs? The questions are important, because it is said that the new route to the port can mean that you have to use the entire space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1048	First, an important clarification: in the case of the Helgeland North package, the tax bill for drivers in the north of the country is approx. 400 million. kr less in the toll stations, because we have today's government and not the previous government. So it's true that the Helgeland package north won't expand in terms of the length, but I think those who live in the region will appreciate paying 400 million. kr less in tolls over 15 years. It may not be so important for the Workers' Party, but this is actually about the economy of business and the inhabitants of the area, and it is therefore important to lower toll costs. With regard to the Bodø package, I have already mentioned twice that, in cooperation with local authorities, we will discuss how to use the space provided by the government's toll policy – whether it means lower toll rates, fewer collection points or more, or a combination of this. Here the local voice will be very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1055	I was in my post on the Bodø-Rognan local train, which is a lot used and effective, even when you look at the population. I wonder if the Council of State will take some initiative to increase the capacity and, if necessary, the frequency of this local train.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1062	I have myself taken the trip from Fauske to Bodø with the Salt pendulum and believe it is a good train offer, which I know is desired also locally, and on which we should definitely – at least in the rush hour – have more capacity. Therefore, the Transland – which is a better station area – is part of this package. We have also said that Reitan should expand its capacity, and that is why it is part of the employer’s compensation package. We will, together with the NSB and the Railway Agency, look at the potential to either set up multiple routes or extend the train sets. I think if you look at the material standard on the Salt pendulum, it's also an area where we'd like to talk about quality raising on the material. But there are many other sections that also fight about limited material. We have more than doubled the number of NSB wagon sets getting purchased in 2015. This will give you a slightly larger car park to dispose of, and you can see how to use it in the Salt pendulum.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1069	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1074	This is a great day for Bodø, for Salten and for the part of the country. With today's decision, the Road Package will be completed the Salt Phase 1 and Phase 2, as it was originally hot. Road package Salts intended for the development and improvement of whole rv. 80 between Fauske and Bodø and the cross-border salt stream in fv. 17. These projects have been completed, and so is the Tverland Bruges. A severe accident-related roadside billing with many bottlenecks has soon been repaired. The grips that have already been implemented have produced good results, and when the last part of the road package comes into place, this will be even better, not least with the large efforts made by public transport and by soft road users. A few small bottlenecks remain before the entire project is in progress. The joy is that it seems that also these pieces fall into place. By the end of the year, the whole region will have a forward-looking rv in place. Eighty-eight. The Bodø package is good for business, and in many ways this is a North Region policy in practice. If we're going to create growth, we need good infrastructure, and we get that now. The whole industry in the region is looking forward to this package being completed. In addition, the Urban Package Bodø brings the whole region closer together. In Salt we become even more a region of housing and labour market. We're getting a lot closer. Distances in time and length are significantly reduced. This opens up new opportunities in another ongoing debate, namely the debate on a better municipal structure. A long and extensive work, which has produced good results for Bodø and the rest of the country, is approaching the end, and we are very happy about that in our region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1087	I join those who say that this is a great day for Bodø. There have been many big days for Bodø this year. The city has rounded 50,000 inhabitants. As the representative of Gruvan was inside, the city opened its big, new cultural scene and its new library: the cultural quarter Stormen. I am sure that the representative Gruvan is envious of us who were given the opportunity to be present there. We also like the Bodø City Package. I myself know it from when I was a city councilman in Bodø, so it has been a long process to bring this up to a decision and a finalisation of it that was once called the Roadpack Salt, on which the previous speaker, the representative Henriksen, was in. Parts of this are already built. Tverlandsbrua was originally part of the town package Bodø, but also the realization of it was characterized by pragmatism, because it was discovered that the bridge that was there, and which was the only gateway to Bodø, was about to say out into the sea, and the road was about to race out. The United States of America, which was able to realize and support the bridge – also as part of the Bodø City Package. Bodø port plays an important role both in freight and passenger transport, but in particular in goods it is important to get better solutions. Getting a better way down to the port, which is an intermodal port with close links to road and rail, is important to achieve the common policy objective of moving more goods away from road and over to rail and sea. It is about better conditions for heavy traffic, but for those living in the city it is also about road safety, noise and dust in the future. Bodø is one of the capitals of the north. We have become a big city, as we have passed 50,000 inhabitants, and therefore the next step must be that the city is taken up as part of the reward scheme for public transport and becomes part of other urban development programmes. I am very pleased that the Council of State is so up-to-date on the Salt pendulum and signals that you have to look at the capacity there. It's good that they're now getting a train stop on the Twarf. I'm glad you're busy realizing a train stop on Retan, which is not least important when you're moving the Air Force Inspector General there, so that the employees who get the opportunity to take the train. However, as mentioned by the Council of State, it is also about the capacity and quality of the existing supply. I must be allowed to replicate to the representative The place, who is concerned about highlighting the pragmatic attitude in this matter: I record that we had to go to the Stortingen to find out that it was actually possible to use the action space to build more roads. So it was not resolved when the government spent extra time on the matter. And I have to say that it's not just an expression of pragmatism when you can't agree on a proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1104	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the matter and for a good debate in the Chamber today. What has been important for everyone is to find a good solution for the region and for Bodø, from the point of view of road safety and more goods across the sea and the track, not least in terms of noise and dust problems. This we get if we get to the solution to the port. That is why I am not quite satisfied today when we were unable to agree entirely on the wording of the vote. I disagree with Helge Orten that I tried to produce a big disagreement, because it is not, but everyone understands that there is a difference between taking ‘parts of’ or ‘entire’. Then I register that something else is said in the comment. I also record that in the debate in the Chamber there is something else, not least from the Christian People's Party, which is willing to use the whole room of action, and that says so far also the Left in its remark. But now we play this over to the ministry, in consultation with local authorities, and the signals and leaders from Stortinget are at least clear. But I have to say that I do not feel fully secure after the answers from the minister in the round of questions here, when I challenged him on how he will deal with the position that lies here, as far as the room for action is concerned. I still think I agree with the great eagerness that it was more important to get lower toll rates than to solve this traffic challenge. So if the Stortinget were to be absolutely sure that the department took the signals from Stortinget, one should have gone for the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. But I also trust that the department is prepared to get a good solution here, so I expect it to come into place. However, we need to be aware of the need to solve this, meaning – with the preliminary estimates that are – that it is likely to be necessary to use almost the entire 450 million action space. kr to solve that challenge. In the end, when it comes to the Salt pendulum, well, now it's even more convenient to use it, with the new terminal in the transversal, but you don't do much with that terminal if you don't get the frequency increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1118	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1132	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1139	This is a big day for the Bergens region, a day that you've been waiting for too long. A joint committee is behind the positive recommendation when it comes to E39 Os-Bergen, which is in Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The extension will eliminate a bottleneck and improve an accident and environmental load distance. In addition, it is important for the economic development of the Os-Bergen axis and to strengthen contact between important growth areas along what will become in the future ferries-free E39. The path goes through an area called Endelösemarka, and I don't know if this has affected the process in any way, but this parcel was first mentioned over 53 years ago. The regulation plans for the road project itself were approved in 2006/2007, but the path towards final approval has definitely been our croquets. And the project is probably a study worth what can happen to obstacles to good social development and effective planning processes. Now, when we can finally look forward to a solution to the traffic challenges on the E39 between Bergen and Os, it's long-lasting and very happy. The proposal concerns the development and financing of the project E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal in the municipalities of Os and Bergen in Hordaland. On this stretch, the European road has a very low standard based on traffic volume and function, with an ÅDT of 13 000 vehicles. The project includes the construction of four-field roads in a new line between Svegatjørn and Rådal – mainly in tunnels. In addition, a distance of rv. 580 to Bergen Airport, Flesland put into a new line and connected with E39. Three crosses and a distance of fv shall be established. 163 will be upgraded. The expansion will give major gains to road users. It is estimated that the expansion will lead to a reduction in runtime of 17 minutes, i.e. half the time of day. The project has a governance framework of 6.5 billion. kr and a cost framework of 7,05 billion. kr. It was set up for plant start-up in 2015, with opening for traffic from 2021 to 2022. The funding base is based on toll revenue of 5 billion. kr, with arrears at the border between Os and Bergen. In the light of the local policy decisions, the Ministry has added to the 18-year recovery period. The Committee has been very concerned about the effectiveness of the collection process, the cost of collection and financing as low as possible and the usefulness of the principle. Local decisions are linked to a desire for exemptions from citizens who seem to be able to get an unfairly high load at the planned toll locations. A single committee calls for closer consideration of solutions that ensure a better link between payment and benefits, and for the various measures to be assessed towards final tariff decisions before the opening of the road. I am pleased that we are now a great step closer to the realization of the project Svegatjørn–Rådal with a fairly E39 between Bergen and Os.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1174	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work in the Committee and for a good review of the matter here. Semja is big here in the hall, and after several decades of planning, we're making final decisions today, which means there's no way back. From now on, there is only one way to go for this project, and it is the straight path from Svegthørn to Rådal. It's not the narrow road we pulled out on here either. New E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal is a road with four fields, which goes so straight forward that travel times are halved. This is good news for ossies that are going to Bergen, and it is good news for mountain sares that commute south. The local benefits will be increased by themselves, and reduced travel time on a straighter and better accessible road will also reduce emissions to air. Likewise, the non-convenient motorway will provide a completely different and better road safety. As noted in the comments, the Committee is concerned that until toll collection is started, solutions will be developed for some local environments that ensure that there is a better link between payment and benefits for the road. The Labour Party and the Central Party also refer to replies from the Department, and we expect solutions to come in line with local policy decisions. Osøyro is one of these municipal centres that has traditionally had the transit route across it. A few years ago, the couple Moberg – Svegatjørn on E39 was opened. This meant that the E39 was taken out of the center of Us, and that grip has been a strong contributor to a good and, not least, traffic-proof centre development in the municipality. Now there is the next and much larger and more extensive phrase for the journey, that is, the passage from Svegatjørn to Rådal. Today, local and transit traffic is carried through crunched areas and partly developed areas through, among others. And above Vallaheane. Locally, the development of Svegatjørn–Rådal will result in huge gains, but the gains are also very large when you see them in connection with the total upgrading of the E39 Coastal Route. Because although much of the focus has been on the different fjord crossing projects, the thing we have to deal with today is a good and clear example of how much must be done on the parts of the E39 that lie between our fjords. When there will now be 17 minutes shorter running time between Os and Bergen, it means that there will also be 17 minutes less travel time between Stord and Bergen and between Stavanger and Bergen. The investment here is large if one calculates the cost per minute saved, but in a region where both people and business are very busy, this will mean a lot in everyday life, and there will be an important contribution to regional enlargement and to linking Western countries better together. I am pleased that the government has now submitted the case, and that we can agree to funding and development here today. There is also a clear follow-up to the NTP adopted by Stortinget in June 2013. Therefore, I will not complain about anything today, but I must nevertheless note that it would have been even better if we had got the case in the new year, instead of having her in the past year. That's what was in the plans of the previous government. There is so much to be built after the plans in the years ahead in the region, both on E39 and on other important sections, that I am a little afraid that the accumulation of several large projects can cause capacity constraints in parallel and thus also price pressures in the region in and around Bergen. Yet, this is a joyous day. There's no way back. Now the straight road ahead for the E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal, and I want to want to close with the realization of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1195	It is a good day when the representative Rommetveit only complains a little. In this case, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who, together with local representatives of wholesalers, among others. Helge André Njåstad, has arranged for a unanimous committee to comment that the principle of efficiency is the basis for the collection of tolls and that only an exceptional set of tolls can be set up on the side-road network. There has been a big question locally in Hordaland about what happens to the bombing in, among other things. Nordvik, and we can now read in the locals that residents are cheering that the Committee has listened to the arguments that it has been important to ensure that the local environment is provided with solutions to ensure that there is a link between payment and benefits for the road. When it comes to the road itself, this is a good project, this is the future-oriented construction of infrastructure, it will ensure that the housing and labour markets in the region are connected more closely, and it is also very gratifying to see that in the road project one goes away from a hopefully-extensive way of thinking that the road always has to enter all the small agglomerations. Here the road is laid out, and you will be able to build the road without disturbing the traffic on the old road, and then start off on an old road where the traffic passes for 50 kilometers an hour by both school and residential areas, to a new four-field road that ensures that the journey time is halved from 35 minutes to 17 minutes. This is a good example of how society works better with new roads, because it provides increased road safety, it provides more efficient transport, it provides lower costs for business, and it allows people to spend less time in the queue and more time at home or at work. In addition, there is an environmental benefit by reducing emissions because the cars can maintain a steady speed and the driving distance is halved. The E39 is the main road transport year for coastal road transport. Just this distance has been very unwell, and it is therefore important to get started quickly on the development. The Progress Party welcomes the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1208	As others have already said, it is a joyous day when we can today adopt a long-term financing and expansion of the E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal in Os and Bergen municipalities. This route is part of the ferry-free E39 project to link growing areas, cities and countries along the entire Kristiansand-Trondheim route. With this project in Os and Bergen municipalities, we get a repair of a highly accident-affected route and move the traffic away from residential areas. Increased availability and reduced driving time are also important gains. The project shall be financed by a combination of State appropriations and tolls — a breakdown of 60-40. In the local discussion about the location of toll stations, an exemption or a two-bomb solution has been recorded — also on the side road, e.g. 163. The recording raises some fundamental questions about important aspects of the legitimacy of toll collection. The basis for toll collection on the county road is to prevent unwanted transit. This is clearly an argument that needs to be weighted. A completely bomb-free bypass bypass, after a new road is a reality, could contribute to the continued major environmental disadvantages and quality degradation of a living environment that one is now just trying to spare. At the same time, it is also important to underline what is mentioned in the point of the proposition. 5 under Tolls and Tolls, there shall be a clear link between benefits and payments. Therefore, there is a basis for asking questions as to whether an ordinary toll collection on fv.163 can be considered to be reasonable on the basis of the utility principle. Correctly, improvements shall be made to the state road by approx. Forty million. kr, but there are still questions as to whether this is a reasonable and sufficient compensation for the establishment of a toll collection system on this side road, a toll collection which is completely equivalent to that established on the E39. The Christian People's Party accepts tolls as part-financing of new and significant road projects, because the state of Norwegian roads is so bad that this is actually a very necessary instrument, in our opinion, to raise the road standard in our country. This is a method of financing that helps to develop more roads, which improve accessibility and road safety. We know that the alternative is rather poor: less development and more traffic problems. Tolls are also an accepted financing solution in many other countries in Europe. The large-scale road development in mountain areas such as Austria and Switzerland would hardly have been possible without a significant toll share in road financing. The more important it is that this funding mechanism is given a legitimacy in the Norwegian population. It is both about the money the drivers contribute, really go to work and not to administration and other things, and about the principle of full compliance with the utility principle. In this case, questions can be asked whether the principle of usefulness has been adequately respected when a full toll load has been proposed, e.g. 163. We are familiar with the local recordings where alternative schemes are proposed. It is therefore necessary, in the view of the Christian People's Party, as the rest of the Committee has also stated, to continue to work to find a solution to the problem in this matter – a solution that can, in a better way than proposed, achieve a link between payment and the principle of usefulness, and which creates legitimacy for the toll system as a principle. I refer you to the good presentation of the case by the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1223	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a very solid and inclusive work in the Committee. It has made it possible for all fractions to agree on a unanimous vote by the Committee. I think that is very good, especially in a case where we have recorded that there are different views on the above-mentioned principle of utility in the case relating to the toll collection. I think the rapporteur deserves to be commended for that. One of the joys you have when you're on the transport committee as I've been for two periods is getting a trip and seeing road sections around the country. I have been driving this route, and I see very well the need to get the long-term solution that we are going to adopt today. It's cramped, it's narrow, it's squirmed through the building. It is clear that it will not be an optimal solution for the future. Now, when it is proposed to realize the project, it is pleasing even for a northerner to be able to join and adopt the road in the West! We are very positive from the Central Party that we get this realization of the Os-Bergen project between Svegatjørn and Rådal. We will get a safer and safer road, it will be more environmentally friendly to drive along the road, and it will not least be more effective for business to transport and send goods in and out of this route. Development is important for the economic development of the Os-Bergen axis. I would also like to say that it is important to strengthen the coherence between the different regions in a wider perspective than just Os-Bergen, because you get the map down the route and it becomes safer to drive. That means it's important for the entire distance between Stavanger and Bergen. The above-mentioned principle of utility has been discussed before me, and the Committee has agreed to ask the Ministry to look at the further work on toll structures and to ensure both their legitimacy and the best possible solutions. I think that's useful, because I don't see a realistic chance of not charging tolls. Then one can discuss the size of them, but then it's important to be able to be pragmatic and find solutions that will give you the best possible way for the money, and that you do it in a way that you can be at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1236	I'm gonna be very short. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his thorough work and for a good account here. I just want to add that for the Left part, the extension of the E39 as the coastal route from Kristiansand to Trondheim is the most important road development. It helps to support current and future coastal value creation and the creation of new housing and labour market regions. With an 18 km new four-field road, we get rid of an important bottleneck on the E39 and significantly improve the infrastructure between Bergen and Stavanger. The left, therefore, is pleased that the Committee here, as the county council in Hordaland, has agreed to continue working to ensure that those living along side roads are not burdened with tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1245	Through transport, Stortinget has the opportunity to contribute to meeting our commitments in the climate agreement and to steer towards lower emissions. Road traffic represents an excessive proportion of CO2 emissions nationally and far more in the major urban areas. The Transport Economics Institute, with several, has long since found out that we cannot build even more fields of motorways to build down the queues, we need to get many more people on public transport. In addition, public health for people along our gateway years is getting worse than it would have been if we really followed the climate agreement and made it possible for all growth in road traffic to come about when it comes to public transport, bicycles and times. Inner. 37 S, which is here, is about a road along the E39 where I've traveled a lot. It is probably a bottleneck, and measures are needed to ensure ‘safer, more environmentally friendly and efficient transport’, as it is called in the setting. Then we have to take the step and do it, not the opposite. SV believes that the state should contribute to large investments and that we need a climate change of Norwegian transport. We are going into our alternative budget for the same thing as Hordaland SV in today's BA points out, that safe roads, increased road safety, yellow middle stripe and the promotion of public transport must be a priority. Before the elections last year, 72 pst said. of the hordes that safe routes of use were at the top of their priority list – above ferry-free E39. The Bergen City Council also decided in 2008 that ‘collective traffic will increase passenger traffic’ as a result of population growth in the Bergen area. Also in the climate agreement, we say that all the growth in passenger traffic towards the big cities will come in the form of bicycles, corridors and public transport. Nevertheless, the same urban governance figure has decided that 30 years should continue with failed and climate-affecting transport policies. Now Stortinget will say the same thing. When SV in Bergen proposed to establish collective fields on two of the four lanes between Svegatjørn and Rådal, only Left, Red, Environmental Party of Greens and City Air - this despite all experience showing that once the road is built without collective fields, it takes a lot to establish it afterwards. But the majority are obviously not concerned that the bus should get out of the queue. I therefore propose that we in Stortinget should vote differently from that of the Committee. In the SV we believe that instead of building a new four-field highway on these 17.7 km, we should bet on collective races in both directions to make it more attractive for people to choose collectively. Studies show that the solution adopted by the Committee will strengthen the competitiveness of the car and provide more traffic, as it will take as short a time by car as by bus. Now there are two ways together three runs in both directions instead of one we have in each direction today, and none of them are collective fields. Much of this traffic then enters the Bergen Centre, where there are so bad air large parts of the year that it affects the health of small and large. SV had really wanted the government and the transport committee to come up with an alternative where collective fields are involved, in order to try to stick to NTP and climate commitments. We also share the desire to improve road safety between Os and Bergen. I am surprised that the committee's Vice-Chairman from the Left does not follow up the climate action locally and nationally. SV will vote against the setting. Since we are not in the committee, and therefore there is no minority proposal in the vote, I am promoting the following proposal for voting: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a case concerning the E39 between Os and Bergen, which prioritises access to public transport and improves road safety without leading to growth in passenger traffic contrary to the climate agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1268	The representative of Ingunn Gjerstad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1272	This is a very important project, not only in view of the Os–Bergen route, but for the whole of the West. And it shows a willingness to accelerate forward-looking processes, which have been going on for a long time, by expanding better infrastructure in the West. This section of the road is very lengthened. It is not that it is late; it should have been here already in the spring – it was mentioned for the first time in the transport plan for 1998–2007, i.e. 14–15 years ago. It was also mentioned in the transport plan for 2010 to 2019. So here's one thing that's been a repetition in many transport plans, but that's only now actually being promoted for the Storting, and that's being adopted. This is an important part of a comprehensive E39 for the West, and I think it makes sense for the region, for the part of the country and for the country that we actually get a ferry-free E39. I understand what challenges must have been in the last government that a ferry-free E39 could mean that someone is driving a car instead of a bus, but I think for the region this is a very important stretch to expand. It is also very important for those who live on Os and commute to Bergen, and for those who live in Bergen and commute to Us. There have been some bottlenecks on the E39, which are now being removed. One gets reduced travel time from 35 to 18 minutes. Then I think we can see some of the same effects that we saw with the Eiksund connection, a distance where there were 800 cars on the ferry on average when the ferry went, but where it now, after the tunnel is built and the tolls are removed, approaching 3,000 cars. It's simply because it does something about the living and working region, and it does something about the dynamics of society. That's something I want to encourage and not try to shut down for. This also creates important improvements in R & D. 580 Airportway, a stretch that I think many of us have driven many times, and that has irritated us a lot. It would also be beneficial for a sheep to be solved in this context. The plant start is in 2015, planned completion in 2021/2022. I am glad that the Workers' Party said they would want this earlier. I fully agree, I would like to see the project delivered in line with the first national transport plan it was mentioned in, or that it had actually been delivered in the previous growing period, when it was promised in the previous national transport plan. Then, unfortunately, it was delayed, along with 23-24 other road projects that the red-green parties promised to initiate or complete in connection with that plan. It is gratifying that we are actually delivering what we have promised, and that all planned road projects in the Vegvesen Action Plan for 2015 will also be launched with the budget proposal that is in place. So there are no delays in what the government is proposing. When I hear SV's posts here, I also understand why it was difficult for the previous government to promote this matter. But that has not been an obstacle to us, because we see that even though the Left is also a party that profiles the environmental tab high, one understands when it comes to urban challenges, where public transport is a good alternative, and when it comes to long distances, where the bus is usually not so competitive because people live too widely. I should also have liked to have submitted the matter in the new year 2014, but the problem was that there were also some local decisions that were missing. Hordaland had to understand that the matter could be dealt with by Stortinget. Those decisions were taken this summer, and as soon as they were taken, we could take the matter to Stortinget. Now we stand here and we can adopt this. This distance is important, not only because it builds a region, but also because it's very low standards on the way as it is. With 13 000 cars, it does not have the capacity it should have. There's a high proportion of heavy cars, there's a lot of residential areas, and there's a lot of school traffic. Building it significantly increases road safety. It's important, and I know that the whole Biggest is concerned about. The road will be partly toll-financed, but the government will make more improvements for the local population. These include: to collect tolls after arrears, as opposed to what was planned earlier. We will also ensure that the toll reform that we also mentioned in the previous case will, in practice, provide increased State contributions, and then we have a lower rate or reduced payoff time. It saves the population for unnecessary expenses. Then I am glad that the Storting also gives such broad powers to find solutions for local populations that are unfairly affected by the tolling. This gives me and the government powers that we perceive give a slightly different signal from what was contained in the national transport plan from the previous government, that one would then have fewer discount schemes and more standardised toll arrangements. So here's an authority to consider local conditions. It is also important when we know that there are many toll schemes that were established under the previous government that people have reacted to and that are now working to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1295	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1298	In today’s BT it is shown that the State Road Administration intends to announce the two main contracts on 15 January 2015, with a deadline of 21 April, and that it will be built at the beginning of October/November 2015. I thought it would be a long time to wait when we give a final clear signal today – that it would be about a year before you start building. What I'm asking is whether it's possible to support the start of the plant, and not least whether it is also possible to support the work itself. The tolling company, according to BT, calls the new road «Lysevegen». The toll company is in the gallery here, and the Osings need to see the light – and so do we – as soon as possible. Is it possible, in the opinion of the Council of State, to provide for the refurbishment of both plant start-up and completion?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1307	I think we see the light already when we get a decision. That's more than the Stortinget's got so far. After talking about this road for a few decades, I think this is a good progress. I am also very uneasy to get started as soon as possible. That is why we are constantly working with Vegvesen to see if it is possible to speed up projects. At the same time, I would rather have the project in place after the deadline that is now in place, knowing that we are getting a project that is actually realised in line with the budget – because we are talking about 7 billion. kr here – rather than rushing from farms and wanting to save a month, but get considerable cost cuts. This government has shown by what we have already done, for example: on the E18 in Westfold, that we are willing to speed things up when we think it's useful and we see that it's possible. The representative can be sure that that attitude is not only the basis of this project, but of all other road projects that we are working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1318	To that I would say that the Council of State will receive our support if there are solutions that can put this on a faster track. I would also like to comment on what the government said in its main post, that it would be difficult for the previous government to get this in place because not all liked motorways. But that government failed to do so in total in the national transport plan, and one also provided funds in the budget. So it was the government behind it. So to a question of finding solutions for the local environment at Nordvik and Kalandseid and around there, which ensures a connection between payment and utility: How does the Council of State think that one can find solutions that are perceived as fair and that are also in accordance with the laws and regulations that we must adhere to?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1327	First of all, in terms of progress: I am pleased that the Workers' Party is impatient to build a road. That's what they wanted, they could live out under this government more easily than they could with SV on the team. I also remember that this road section was part of the national transport plan submitted in 2008, i.e. for the period 2010-2019, without the red-green government then implementing it. It is not enough to commit projects to NTP, one must also implement them. It happens now, it didn't happen then. In the case of tolls, there were in the national transport plan changes from the red-green inside the tolling system that meant that one would take less local consideration. One would remove local discounts, including: The 50 p.m. discount in some places – the Oslofjord tunnel was one of them – to have a uniform toll system that would make it easier for the state. We are concerned that we should have a tolling system that gives the least burden to the inhabitants – some of us would like to have it completely removed. Therefore, we will go into this with life and desire to find the best possible solution for those who are being unfairly affected here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1336	I just have to say that we are too, and we want, simplification and overview, so that the discount scheme is more conservative and does not cover too many. But at the same time, one must also have solutions that are perceived to be fair to those who use the road, and then this is very important. Today we have some requests that are approved and started, which I think is a bit on the edge. We notice that people are going crazy about it. But if they get what they pay for, people are very happy, mostly. In any case, we notice it in the West, we who get a ferry settlement for many of these projects. I am very happy that the Progress Party in the government is also involved in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1345	I am so pleased when I hear that the Workers' Party in the opposition is going back on what the Workers' Party thought was in position, because the changes that were made in the toll sector were not made to show a lot of local considerations, but to get a standardised system. That's why one ran 10 pst. discount on all projects instead of adding that one could have greater discounts on passenger cars than on vehicle combinations, greater discounts at some places than elsewhere when local conditions were added to it. I understand that what the Workers' Party is saying means that we're actually getting quite a lot of room for action to improve this system without the Workers' Party criticizing that we're doing it differently from what one put up in the NTP. It is quite right that people who feel they pay unfairly for a product become quite ‘malicious’ to use the word used by the representative Rommetveit. They also call us, because now they see hope that they can actually get decisions made under the previous government, to better adjust the situation locally. One of the areas in which we now work is for example: toll stations around Kongswinger. There we find solutions continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1354	I see that the Council of State has sat down, but he will be allowed to come back. I'm probably sharing the considerations that the representative Rommetveit has had here. The center party, like the Workers' Party, is concerned that we should both build more roads for the money and get an effective toll collection. We're not so interested in getting involved in different formulations from different governments. I believe that we have a common responsibility for improving – things we see, it is important to improve. Like the Council of State, which points out that you want the ferry-free E39, the Central Party also wants it. We think it's important that we realize it. I have a question about what's going on in the collective. We've said that we want to realize this piece as it stands in today's proposition. But there is no doubt that the Bergen area has challenges with urban air and with the need for increased public transport. Can the Council of State say anything about the dialogues he has with the Bergen region about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1365	I'm sorry I left the podium. I was so torn by the previous speaker that we had to keep the dialogue going. The urban air in Bergen is also something that concerns me, because it is above the limit values a lot times. We've done more grips in Bergen to try to get rid of this. One of the important measures I think is to ensure that one gets power from land to several of the ships that are located in the port of Bergen. It is a significant source of pollution. Then it's also about getting more people to travel more environmentally friendly to work, either using low-emission cars or zero-emission cars, by traveling collectively or by walking and cycling. Some of the tools we now have, as I see it as very much agreement in Stortinget, are the urban environmental agreements. That's something that was started in the national transport plan by the previous government, and that we carry on with life and ambition, where, quite simply by the state, a government enters into a state capital for investment. There is something that is not as binding within the NTP, but the municipalities commit themselves to land and transport use. It will be the main instrument in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1374	It's the way in life of many that if the bus takes 10 or 15 minutes shorter time, select a bus if one can, if one has access to it. The council says that when an SV belongs to its representative, one understands that the previous government had problems. SV participated in providing the national transport plan, but it is not stated in the national transport plan that we should have a road with four fields and without collective fields on this stretch. I wonder how the Council of State will argue that in this way we are fulfilling the climate agreement, with the important leads to cutting emissions that we have agreed in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1382	The road section we're talking about now, goes between Us and Bergen, but not necessarily all the way into the Bergen Centre. It's not part of the road section. It is natural for a person to look at public transport where there will be a lot of other transport issues, so that public transport becomes easier to escape. It would not be natural that on a road with normal inter-urban motorway standard there is a separate collective field and thus only one field again for other traffic. This would mean that much of the gain we get in terms of road safety – by having one field where heavy traffic can be found, while the other ordinary cars that are allowed to drive faster have the opportunity to pass – are gone. So it's important that one in the overall context looks at driving into Bergen city and makes it possible for public transport, quite simply. There can be a different way of thinking about collective fields. There you can think differently in terms of walks and bikes. However, in the inter-urban major shipping years, the four-field motorway without its own collective fields is what is most appropriate. So many buses aren't going to go between Us and Bergen, but there's going to go crazy many buses in the Bergen center, and therefore the need for collective fields is much bigger there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1389	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1392	It is possible to run a bus on a four-field motorway. I was a little central when we built the Triangle Connection in Sunnhordland, which links Bømlo, Stord and Sveio, and there were a lot of protests because car traffic was going to increase so much. There was probably some traffic, but there was a lot more bus traffic. It turned out that this link led to a strong increase in public transport. Along this road, Svegatjørn–Rådal, it won't be possible to make people – there are endless fields there, and there's no one to live there. But it's the line that the Coast Bus goes, and the Coast Bus from Stavanger to Bergen and from Bergen to Stavanger goes every hour and every night. It is so that when there are many passengers, there are three and four coastal buses running one after the other. So this road will improve the collective service – it will be 17 minutes faster to drive a bus from Stavanger to Bergen. It becomes more attractive in relation to aircraft, which is used very much, and even more attractive compared to impeccable speedboats. It will also be possible to run the old line, and of course local buses will go there, because there will be people, and then they will be left alone, so at least much more traffic-free, and they will come out easier. My main point, in so far as it's a point, is that a bus can also run on four-field highways.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1405	As many before me have said today, this is a great day for many – especially for Us, Bergen, Bergensregionen, Sunnhordland, Haugalandand Stavanger, which is now being tied 17 minutes closer to each other. This is the first step towards linking the two major cities in the West, where we know that the Free E39 will further strengthen this link and make it a future, very exciting common labour and housing market. As many people have also said, we have been working for 53 years on this project, so it is really high time that we could vote on this today and give a clear signal to build this road that one has been waiting for a long time. The council said in its speech that there was a little uncertainty attached to local decisions, and there was a need to make them away in the county of Hordaland this summer. I know a little about the background because they were treated in the county of Hordaland this summer and not later, and it was because there was someone pressing for them to get them up and down. Today, I would like to congratulate in particular the leader of the cultural selection of the county council, Gustav Bahus, and the chairman of the municipality of Os, Terje Søviknes, on the day and with their efforts for many years and on the hectic weeks to get the decision in place, so that the council could deliver this matter to us today. The same two guys have also helped to practice the impression that there should only be post-requisition and not pre-requisition, which we all get over. I would also like to praise the municipality of Us that, when they get this way, they will facilitate the establishment of nutrition in the much-known Endelösmark which we are talking about today, a food park, the Light Park, which will mean a lot for the Bergensregion, which needs space to create values in the future. The fact that the municipality buys and regulates the area and secures itself for the future by providing food is positive, offensive and something that will mean mass for the Bergens region. Finally, I'm slipping over the positive signals associated with the Nordvik and Kalandseid areas. I'm very happy that the committee has worked well to come up with the formulations that meet the communities, and that we can form a new policy that makes it a connection between what one pays and what one gets again. It is very good that the Council of State has received some good signals from the majority today, so that he can continue to work on designing this policy in an even better way than what is in today's national transport plan. In this way, it is nice that Nordvik and Kalandseid can be involved and form the basis for a new and better tolling policy for areas affected in such a way as they are. So I'm particularly glad that one finds a good solution to the collection of the two communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1418	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1434	I've been asked about how in the world I can fill an entire interpellation with the theme of driving around, but I would point out that the purpose here is to have the topic debated about how we can get better traffic flow and lower environmental emissions on our main roads. It's been over a hundred years since the world's first roundabout, Columbus Circle in New York, 1905. Norway's oldest roundabout is from 1918 and is located in the centre of Trondheim. But what is it really about these roundtrips that make this country build between 30 and 50 every two years? Oslo with Stavanger are the cities with most roundtrips in Norway, and in Oslo there are about 150. Tours have become so popular that in Stavanger even 120 million have been used. kr on a bicycle tour, in the middle of the E39, and the theme has now become popular among local stand-up comedians and revisionists. The absolute advantage of the rounding is that, where they replace compulsory crossings, the number of road accidents is significantly reduced. A report from the Transport Economic Institute estimates that roundabouts can reduce the number of fatal accidents by 66 pst. and the number of injuries of 46 pst. So let's put it right away: Tours have their mission, but I want to focus on our main roads and on traffic flows and environmental emissions. Since the first roundtrip in Norway in 1918, which was built in the centre, roundabouts have become increasingly common, not only on local roads in densely populated areas, but also on Norwegian highways. The reason is often that they create good traffic flow for those road users who are going on or off the main road. This is probably a truth with modifications, because in that case it requires that the traffic distribution is fairly even on the driveways. If the volume of traffic on one road is very high, this can lead to such delays, according to the TØI report, that other solutions will often be better served. One consequence of the reduction of traffic flows in such cases is that it will also lead to increased traffic emissions in relation to whether other solutions, such as usual two-schedule crossings, would be used. Last week I was with a truck from Rogaland on a drive in the region to study the phenomenon more closely. We drove in a split new Scania, which got the signs that day, and we took the trip to NorStone, filled the car with picks, so it weighed 50 tons, and then we drove, among other things. to Ålgård in Gjesdal municipality, and here, at E39, the main year between Kristiansand and Stavanger, there are three consecutive roundabouts located within a very small area. If you come running from Stavanger, you'll meet the first one at the very beginning of an uphill hill at a distance of 600 meters. Before there were roundabouts on this section, the truck used 0.4 litres of diesel on such a hill, because it had a steady speed of 70 km/h when it was at the bottom of the ground and started on it. With today's roundabout, you start at the bottom of the ground either from full stop or at low speed of 10 km/h, and with a split new fully loaded Euro 6 truck, the best thing you have on the market when it comes to emissions and fuel consumption, you now use 1.6 liters of diesel on these 600 meters. With a Euro 3 or Euro 4, which is most commonly used on Norwegian roads, the figures are even higher. My claim is that roundabouts on highways are environmental bombs, and I want to further justify the claim. Once again I will use a local example, because on the same trip we chose to compare fuel consumption from E39 and to the freight terminal on Ganddal on the old and the new road respectively. A few years ago, the old two-field road from E39 to the freight terminal, which runs in a densely built strip, was replaced by a new straighter and shorter four-field road. All logic suggests that such an improved road standard will be positive for the environment in terms of reduced emissions, and research shows that this is what is going to happen, but in this case the roundabouts for the environmental benefit are destroying. Here, it is not enough that the roundabouts on this new road provide for road-only traffic, but it also ensures that a truck will use 1.7 litres of less diesel to choose the old two-field road instead of the new and shorter four-field road. The purpose of these roundabouts has certainly been good, and they have probably been made with the best intentions, but it is time to look at road construction with new, critical glances and find solutions on our national roads that better care for traffic flows and the environment. Similar examples within the same theme, traffic flows and environmental emissions are the removal of bus pockets, and bus stops in the middle of the road instead. This means that all the cars have to brake up and thus stand idle while the bus takes off and takes on passengers. The same is true where two or three-field roads are planned instead of four-field roads. A well-functioning and safe non-cow transport system without delay provides good road safety, good efficiency, good social economy, low energy consumption and low emissions of gaseous and greenhouse gases. Now someone else in the hall will take the word and point out that the solution is to move more goods over from truck to track and keel. Yes, this is an intention I fully share, but at the same time we have to admit that without the truck Norway stops, and we depend on the truck to get goods around to the users. One example I mentioned instead is just such a case. The new road built from E39 to Ganddal was built because at the same time a freight terminal was built there, where the goods are transported to the region by rail. But to get the goods out to shops, factories and businesses, we depend on the truck to do the job, whether we like it or not. In the Advance Party we share the goal of getting more passengers and more goods on the track, but we also recognise that both the private car and the truck have come to stay. We believe that society works better with good roads. Goods, electricians and carpenters will come forward more quickly, which will increase productivity, business will have lower transport costs, people will spend less time in line and more time at work and at home, while better roads will have a climate benefit in terms of reduced emissions. There is solid research-based evidence that a modern road network will lead to fewer accidents and that improved road standards are positive for the environment due to reduced greenhouse gas emissions and harmful NOx compounds. This applies even if better road standards contribute to the growth of traffic. The statistics show that the number of fatal accidents is reduced by between 80 and 90 pst. when a road billing is upgraded to motorway standard and in Swedish studies it is found that poor roads cause more than 70 pst. of the fatal accidents. So bad roads mean more accidents, with human suffering and high social costs as a result and more environmental emissions, while better road standards mean fewer accidents, despite increased traffic and higher speed. Research shows that there is a close link between road design, traffic management and pollutant emissions of waste gases. We achieve large reductions in emissions when the road is remedied or replaced. Another important point in this case and one more argument to avoid building these roundabouts on the main roads is that new tribal roads should be laid mainly at a good distance from the construction site, thus saving many communities for noise, pollution and other negative environmental impacts from the roads. I am convinced that the Council of State itself has made similar experiences after crossing the country across the country this summer. I look forward to the debate, and will end by asking the Council of State, as I do in the text of the interpellation, whether the government is willing to assess new guidelines in this area, so that in the future the road standard will provide better traffic flows, increased road safety and smaller emissions from the vehicles that have to use the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1488	I thank the interpellant for bringing up this topic. I think of it as part of the discussion about what roads we should have in this country, where they should be, what standard they should have – not least from an environmental and road safety perspective. Although statistics show that we're going in the right direction with regard to the number of accidents and the number of fatalities in traffic, it's still a long way off. That is why it is important that we make significant progress in the future. Although the growth of the railway has been good, and the railway has been a winner in recent years, the maintenance run and the number of fatalities in traffic are far higher on the road than for other modes of transport and therefore some priority needs to be given. Road is both professional and emotional. There are feelings for people who live along a road, who live in a dense place, people who do business and know that getting a road past their store, or not least their gas station, it means a lot to your income compared to whether the road is being relocated. Traveling around Norway, but preferably even more in the United States, where one sees how one has built motorways across the country, one sees that where the highway goes, business flourishes, while the old highways go, it dies out, even though the nostalgia makes some choose that road. Route 66 in the United States is a typical example of that. The main road and Route 66 can be quite close to each other, but only one kilometer away means something about whether hotels, tourism, dining places or other businesses are flourishing or dying out. Therefore, this will be a discussion that is both about the concrete design on the ground and also about where we choose to go. Car traffic is best for the environment, for business and for the driver when it slips smoothly. We can discuss biofuels, and we can discuss electric cars, which will significantly reduce the environmental impact, but regardless of which energy sources you use, or what fuel you use to bring your car or bus forward, know that even speed is more energy-friendly and thus more environmentally friendly than ever brake, gas, turn, up, down, and so on. In order to achieve good traffic solutions, a person will have to choose different trajectories or different cross-solutions depending on where it is in society. High-traffic highways will have one solution, low-traffic highways another solution, and local roads a third solution. I experienced that – as the representative also mentions – especially well when I drove the E6 this summer, a distance where we drove a total of 3,150 km, and thus mainly drove on the same road all the time, E6 from Svinesund to the Churches, but where the community around changed very much. The topography changed, and the climate changed – one way with varying loads and therefore different solutions. E6 out of Oslo has many ramps for access and exit. One avoids traffic stops. It is simply about making traffic flow, and it is about road safety. Then one comes to Steinkjer, to take an example, where one has seven laps in a row. I got on that very stretch of joy of driving myself a very long truck, just to experience how the trailer bumped over each of the roundabouts while we were driving. And then one comes to E6 and Nesbrua in Harran in the North Trøndelag, where one chooses to add E6 in the middle of a dent for it to pass a gas station and an S-layer, but it also passes the school and kindergarten. I don't know if it's a priority I would have preferred, but that's what you wanted locally. But from a social perspective, letting the main road through a dense place and setting up speed bumps and having a 40-limit is not a good solution. This suggests that a person from Vegvessen may have very good professional judgements as to why a selection of cross-designs like a do, but if politicians have instructed the Vegvessen to build a road in the wrong place, often poor solutions in total. But then it is not necessarily a professional problem, it is a political problem. There it is important that we are a little clear on which starting point the Road Service should have. We've told the Vegvesen that when a build highways in this country, a primary attempt is to put them outside the town centre or city center. If a build new E39, E18, E6 – take the whole sequence – one as far as it can be done, make sure that the new main trail goes outside. It's about road safety, it's about local environment, it's about safe school roads. Then we have to make sure that for those who run business, we have to have a more liberal sign practice, which means that one can actually sign what's in that place that one no longer runs through, but runs outside. It will ensure better local business, but it will also ensure that drivers and passengers on board cars and buses get a more comfortable journey where they are going, and will not be forced through a place where they do not want to be in. In the case of E39 at Ålgård, which was taken up as an example, there is also a road map where I have been driving a lot, and I fully agree that when it is the main road through the district, it is not pleasant to constantly have to slow down to drive through a roundabout. Once the road is as it is, there's no doubt that roundabouts are preferable to the old crossings one had before, where there were many more accidents. The roundabouts are thus a road safety element. But that's exactly why it's important that we on the E39 are able to build a modern highway. We have been told that the route should be planned as a four-field and not as a two-field, just to get more pleasant cross-solutions, because on the four-field motorway there is no intersection of cars, but one has a down- and on-road and bridge over or tunnel under the main road. This is what a jobseeker is going to do on the route Ålgård-Hove now, which is in the National Transport Plan, where we have given money well to ensure good progress in planning. When it comes to planning in general, the Road Service has its road standards on which they base. They are debated by some local politicians, and we listen to the objections that are coming. Road standards are a matter of continuous review, based on both professional assessments and experience gained at national and international level, both through practical experience and through research, and also through a political signal, as we do, for example. laying the main lines outside the city centre. It's also important when you're designing roads, that you have a perspective on what you think about traffic 20 years ahead. It's not always a hit. One sees that on several of the fjord crossings, where a redeemer ferries and builds a tunnel instead, has an underestimated traffic growth. That is why we have also challenged the Vegvesen on how they calculate this, in order to get more realistic estimates that do not undermine traffic. Based on road standards and experience with them, future traffic growth and policy signals, the best way to design the crossings is through: Then roundabouts are beneficial where one has a lot of crossing traffic on local roads, but it is certainly not a standard we want to have on our highways, which bind regions and parts of the country together. We have also told you this when we plan E39, to ensure that you get a good flow in traffic and can keep a higher average speed. Speed is not important because it's fun to drive fast, speed is important because it reduces travel time. And there's reduced travel time that means most if you're going to build industry that binds regions together. The idea of being able to drive from Stavanger to Kristiansand in 1 hour and 50 minutes instead of 3.5 to 4 hours, which today, does something about the dynamics of business, it does something to the clusters, it makes companies in Stavanger and Kristiansand interact, on day trips, something you can't do today, unless you write a lot of overtime. The same is true when you think of Stavanger–Bergen, and which is the basis when we see how Telemark is going to connect with the four-field motorway, and what that can mean for the local environments there. Just as roundabouts can be debated, a little depending on which roads you choose – but I think I have signaled quite clearly that having a roundabout on the European road is not desirable – there is also a discussion about how to design a bus stop. The main concept shall be that when the buses are to pick up passengers, they shall leave the road, out of traffic. In some places one of the local reasons, like because of local collective action, might say that it would be inappropriate to take the bus out of traffic, simply because it would be difficult to get back in if there is a lot of queue. In that case, the queue experienced by a bus’s creation, in isolation, may not have any particular impact on traffic management in general, but it must be a local assessment. But removing bus pockets just to remove them is something I'm critical of. We have to make sure that more people can drive a bus, but we also have to make sure that the traffic around the bus is as good as possible, and that an artificial queue is not created, as some places do. So it's important, when we're thinking about getting more people to travel collectively, that we also facilitate access parking. It'll be a debate for itself, but there can be a bigger collective node where the buses get a more prominent place and better space than what they have with the bus pockets, as we see now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1524	I want to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State for the answer, especially for the sentence where he says that this is no standard we want on our highways. It is exciting to hear that thoughts that the Progress Party has had for decades have now been propagating itself into the Ministry of Transport and hopefully have the opportunity to root there. Since I first mentioned the Ministry of Transport, I would at the same time ask the Council of State that the first thing he should do when he comes to the office tomorrow is to look well through his drawers. One of his predecessors from the red-green government put a report from SINTEF right in a drawer. It is a 2007 report, with the job title Environmental impact of better roads. In the interpellation, I spent some time on roundabouts, but my purpose is to be informed that it is possible to increase traffic flow and lower emissions, and that is what the report is about. The report clearly concludes that there are significant environmental benefits associated with better roads, in the form of reduced emissions from existing traffic. The reasons why they come to these conclusions – some of whom will probably call them "stupid" – are obvious to many of us. I mentioned in my main post that I myself have been driving with a truck, equipped with a notebook and a fuel meter, and have seen how driving patterns and infrastructure affect fuel consumption and emissions. And emissions of harmful gases to the environment and health follow the same pattern as fuel consumption. If you use a lot of fuel per kilometer, the emission will be high. So the consumption – and the emissions – is high at low speeds and so-called ‘stop-and-go’, or kangaroo driving, as I call it. You're in line, you're stopping and accelerating around each other, which is very unfavourable for both fuel consumption and emissions. Consumption is at its lowest at a steady speed of approximately 60 to 80 km/h. Consumption increases slightly again at higher speeds, but significantly less than at low speeds. Unfortunately, in Norway, most politicians talk about the need to limit traffic in order to achieve climate gains. Some of the observations in this report are that they conclude that on roads without major capacity problems, they need to halve traffic in order to reduce emissions as much as a road improvement does, and that on roads with major capacity problems, traffic needs to be reduced by 25 pst. to have the same power as adding an additional field on an overloaded motorway. Getting better and more efficient traffic flows, increased road safety and less emissions from vehicles will help us achieve the climate goals and make it easier to achieve zero vision in terms of traffic fatalities, while at the same time it will help us achieve a better functioning society. It provides good infrastructure, strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian business, and ensures existing Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1537	I'll look into the drawers. The last time I did that, I found a report on how to reform the railway sector. We're doing that now, so it's very well there that can be useful to bring on. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a report by the Transport Economic Institute, TØI, on external costs of road traffic has just been submitted. It is a document that also points out some road traffic challenges and shows that the greatest cost we have in road traffic is accidents. It's something you often ignore, you just think that queue and pollution cost, but it's actually the accidents that are the greatest cost to our society. Therefore, it is very important to build better roads with good capacity and safe take-off and take-off facilities. It's really just looking at the E18 in Westfold, where a common criticism goes on: oh, this government thinks it's so fun with the four-field highway. But we have seen that after that road opened up to traffic in all four fields, the frequency of accidents has decreased significantly compared to when it was a two-way road during work. We also know that before a built highway with four fields – under the previous government, all credit to it – passed Holmestrand, there was a bottleneck, where the average speed was very low during the weekends, but the accident rate was very high. Speed and accidents are not necessarily related, unless one also looks at capacity, and we see that poor road capacity often creates more accidents and a more serious situation, but also lower average speed. Therefore, our commitment to increased maintenance on the roads and a large increase in planning resources for new motorways are part of the road safety trend. But it also has a good environmental impact, because the reports show, as I mentioned in my introduction, that traffic that flows evenly has lower energy consumption and thus lower environmental impact than traffic that is collapsing in queues. We're going to keep working on this. I'm very pleased with Mr. Steffensen's commitment. I look forward to hearing the recordings from the Storting too much on this. In the case of a level-free crossing, where a T-cross is added, and where a roundabout is laid, level-free crossings will be natural by motorway standards, and roundabouts will be natural on local roads. T-crossing will also be in use in many places for a long, long time, but from a road safety point of view there is actually a great benefit in having roundabouts some places instead of T-crossings. Although this may mean that fuel consumption is rising at some point, I give priority to road safety. But I fully agree with what was the starting point for the discussion by the representative Steffensen: having roundabouts on highways, as today, is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1546	I was a little insecure when the representative Steffensen promoted the interpellation, at what it was he really wanted to draw out. I think what the representative Steffensen has done is to show that everything is related to everything, because it actually does. I do not at all doubt this report, which has apparently been in a drawer, and what the representative Steffensen has experienced on his journey with a truck, that better traffic flow is equal to less emissions, i.e. that a user uses less fuel. At the same time, I am absolutely convinced – I think I could have found quite a number of reports that had said the same thing – that in the area that the interpellant is now talking about, a double track would, for example, be. to Egersund, emissionally, was much more functional than e.g. a four-field road. At the same time, I believe that if we manage to do something about public transport in the North-Jearth, it will mean more emissions and environmental impacts. But now the representative Steffensen has just moved to Ålgård in Gjesdal municipality. I have been so lucky to live at Ålgård for 22 years and have been a municipal politician there for 16 years. Sometimes I've asked myself what comes first and last, a little like that, the chicken and the egg. I believe that the reason I moved to Ålgård, and that the representative Steffensen can live there now, was that the E39 went there. One has built the houses and everything around the E39, and then one also got some challenges, because Ålgård is a pretty small place. One faced challenges both with all those who lived there, and not least with the industry and business that grew up, because it became a power center. I remember very well that we were standing in these intersections that were not roundabouts, where there were ugly accidents and many fatal accidents that made you have to do something about the situation. I believe that the common sense of local politicians, but also of professionals in Vegvesenet, made it possible to do what was possible. So that's how costs matter in such a context. This is, as the representative of Steffensen knows, in the middle of an agricultural area, so it wasn't easy to do it the other way around. When I now say what I'm saying, it's because it can be pulled out very quickly like there's someone in the Road Administration, former governments or others who haven't managed to think that it was a good idea that the road went somewhere else. But I'm very happy that where you've built a dense place around a main roadway, you can get it to something like that, like you've done on the E39 at Ålgård. I very much agree with the Council of State that when you're going to build new roads, you have to build them outside the urban centres and towns. I don't know if one has to change the guidelines to get them to, or if it's possible to do so within the guidelines that you have. I also agree with the Council of State – I don't know if he said it now, but at least he has said it before – that sometimes there may be local interests that are professionally, road-wise, not allowed to rot, and then I think it is important that politicians put their feet down in order to participate and decide, when reason and the trade find each other. I was a little in doubt if the representative Steffensen was against these roundabouts. I am pleased that the roundtrips are now available when the representative Steffensen lives there, because it was quite hazardous for us who lived there before, when they did not exist. So it was also for the industry in the region, I think, important that these roundabouts came into place, for the trucks for goods transport in and out, so the picture is a little nuanced. But there were some things pulled out in this interpellation, so if nothing else, I think it's incredibly good that Ålgård, which is a great place in Gäsdal Municipality, is on the map, and then I also think that the representative Steffensen is happy that these roundabouts actually exist, because he's going safer there now than I did when I lived there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1559	And we all know now that there are three roundabouts in Ålgård!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1562	That's what we've got! It's very nice that this debate goes on a little more than the number of roundabouts and for and against roundabouts, because that's not what this is all about. I am very pleased that the representative Steffensen addresses the issue, because what it really is about is the quality and standard of our road network, how important it is to both accessibility, the environment and safety. Our road network has many purposes to serve. Some roads are important transport paths between our regions and will ensure that we get goods and people transported quickly, efficiently and safely. There are typical European roads and important national road sections. Such roads should be designed as they are, important modes of transport in which roads are built for the maximum extent of traffic outside congested areas and in such a way that traffic does not unnecessarily stop. As the Council of State was in, speed in itself is not for fun, it's simply because it's going to be faster to get from A to B. It's going to be faster for the commuter, or for the carrier of their goods, but it's also going to be in a safe way. So discussing faster speed, I think, among other things. is a very good labour market measure. The solution to this, along our important transport years, is that we build either full quadruple roads, or that we establish sufficient by-pass roads, and that we build our roads with separate lanes, so that we get much safer and more traffic-proof roads. In the main European road and national road sections, we should as far as possible avoid time-laging cross-resolutions, whether roundabouts or other types of solutions. Nevertheless, I find it a little difficult to be completely categorical about this, as part of our road network today is going in and around densely built strips. The reason for this may be that the national road network serves more purposes and purposes than just being a pure transport route, but also serves commuter traffic to and from some of our major cities. It is important, in this sense, to establish good means of desisting from road traffic as far as possible. In the planning of new roads, too little attention has been paid to putting the new pathways outside the construction. Therefore, cross-resolution challenges have arisen. The example to which the representative Steffensen refers, and which is duly mentioned both from the presidency and elsewhere, can be a good, or perhaps bad, example in this way. For future planning, we will probably need to focus more on putting these roads outside the established routes, avoiding too many of the congested areas, and rather facilitating the establishment of good detours from the new routes. So I have some doubts as to whether there are standards and standards, which, as far as the representative Sund was concerned, are the biggest challenge, but rather whether there are clear leadership from both us in the Stortinget and from the Department on how to solve this through future both trajectory and planning processes. The representative, Steffensen, has raised a problem that needs to be highlighted significantly in the future planning of our national road network. I am very pleased that the Council of State has confirmed that he is doing well in carrying out that work, and the department has taken good care of it. It's reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1577	I was a little worried about whether we should have the next round of debates in a café over a cup of coffee, but it was good to see that others also took the word. When it comes to that I've used Ålgård as an example, there's no connection that I've just moved there. The interpellation was written before summer, before I decided to move. The reason why I use it as an example is that I believe that this is a good example of the fact that the main road should be built outside the town, and that is a good example that traffic would float better, and it would be better for the environment if it were built two-plan crossings instead of roundabouts on such roads. But yes, I am very glad that something was done about the main road through Ålgård, because there were a lot of traffic accidents before the roundabout came into place. Otherwise, the representative Sund took up a little bit more about the whole thing: if you were to bet more on collective and double tracks to Egersund, it would also be good for the environment. But again, we still need highways, and we still need to get the goods delivered, and they do not go on double-track as passengers. We need to get the goods delivered to the stores with trucks, and they have to drive on the main roads. Then it's important to have a debate on how to design our highways. Otherwise, I would like to take the opportunity to commend the minister, who drove E6 this summer, and he has driven E39 and E18. The fact that he himself experienced what it was like to drive a wagon train through these seven roundabouts shows the need for more politicians to be on an inspection. Actually, it is quite surprising that a Minister for Transport has not driven the E6 before. The UK Road Director has produced a report on the same topic as this. His main message was «keep the traffic moving». That, I think, is a good summary of the debate that has been. I'm not going to pull it out that much further, except that I'm going to give credit to the Stortinget for the decision that we're actually going to make today in the case of E39. That's exactly what I'm asking, which I hope will be normal in the future, that we're making a new trajectory that goes beyond the dents, and where the three intersections that are on that road will be two-plane crossings and not roundabouts. It will be good for the environment and good for traffic flow, and that will be good for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1590	I thank the interpellant for a good discussion on the topic – and the others who have contributed; it doesn't always have to be many to have a good debate. But the theme here is very important. I'm not going to repeat myself, but just point out that in terms of the construction of motorways and highways, the signals we give are that one should put them outside the urban area or agglomeration, with a good sign of activity in the agglomerations, so that a local business can be cared for, but that traffic safety and traffic flows are important. Then there will always be a discussion about when level-free crossings are necessary, and when rounding is better suited, and there we have to rely on our professional environments and local forces who know the conditions best, and there will also be an assessment of traffic volumes in the future. There's no doubt for me, even though roundabouts here are viewed as a problem, that it's all a good thing. There's a way to cross paths, which have significantly reduced the number of accidents, and after many years in the United States, I also know that there's a cross-section that works much better than a four-way stop sign, which is common on many American local roads, and that means very much the drive. So it's true that since we built out double tracks on the track, it could have been a good environmental grip, just like better traffic flow, and would like a better environmental grip. That's part of an overall solution that we're looking at for the North Year. That's why we've launched a so-called concept selection investigation to look at the extension of the double track. At the same time, we must not end up in the situation that the previous county rapporteur in Rogaland, Tom Tvedt of the Workers' Party, rewrote in a chronicle in Stavanger Aftenblad, that we must not build so good roads that people stop taking the bus – but unfortunately he forgot to follow up on giving people good alternatives to cars. Thus, people ended up driving a car on roads that were undersized, and there the queue was a consequence. It is the worst form of urban and industrial development — and environmental development — that you can have. That's why a more dimensional road has to be right, at the same time as one makes it attractive to travel collectively, whether it's by train, bus, city track, tram or T-Bahn, or whatever one chooses. The choices will be locally dependent. This is why part of the challenges of the North-Jearth are also part of what is being discussed in the urban environment agreements that the government is now working on with the four largest cities. There will not necessarily be a key issue of round-the-clock driving, it will be addressed in other areas, but the overall package for better social accessibility is important. Hopefully, it will also help to improve the fuel consumption of trucks that Roy Steffensen has driven than he himself has reflected on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1607	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1613	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1679	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1689	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1726	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1766	During the debate, Kjell-Idar Juvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Ministry of Transport is authorised to conclude an agreement with local authorities to extend, where appropriate, the Urban Package Bodø instead of reducing the tariffs only as a result of a lower calculation technical interest rate. The economic scope underpinning any extension of the Urban Package Bodø is the difference between the theoretical financing costs with a calculation technical interest rate of 6,5 pst. versus 2,8 pst.» The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1803	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will subsidize II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1818	During the debate, Mr Gjerstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a case concerning the E39 between Os and Bergen, which prioritises access to public transport and improves road safety without leading to growth in passenger traffic contrary to the climate agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1845	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1858	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-18.ana.ud2219e1931	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
