ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e53	The representatives of Jørund Rytman, Liv Signe Navarsete, Kristian Norheim and Regina Alexandrova, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Gina Knutson Barstad, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Marianne Aasen, Per Rune Henriksen and Ove Bernt Trellevik on leave from 14 January to 4 April – all to take part in the main course of the Defence College from the representatives of Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Tina Bru, Margunn Ebbesen, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Irene Johansen, Odd Omland, Michael Tetzschner and Helge Thorheim on leave from 14 January to 16 January and from the representative of Toril Eidsheim on leave from 14 January to 24 January – all to take part in studies in Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg. by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde from 14 January until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For the West Agder province: Linda Verdal 14-16. January For Akershus County: Anne Odenmarck from 14 January until further notice For Hordaland County: Eigil Knutsen 14 January–3. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== January For More and Romesdal County: Tove-Lise Square 14-16. January For Nordland County: Jonny Finstad 14-16. January For Oslo: Frode Helgerud 14-16. January, Peter N. Myhre from 14 January until further notice and Ingunn Gjerstad from 14 to 16. January For Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal 14-16. ==References====External links== Januar For Østfold County: Wenche Olsen 14-16. January
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e190	Linda Verdal, Anne Odenmarck, Eigil Knutsen, Charlotte Spurkeland, Iril Schau Johansen, Tove-Lise Torve, Jonny Finstad, Frode Helgerud, Peter N. Myhre, Ingunn Gjerstad, Sissel Knutsen Hegdal, Kari Raustein and Wenche Olsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e211	It is not often that we discuss trade policy in this room, beyond the EEA and – rarely – the WTO, despite the fact that ensuring the best possible conditions for Norwegian business also outside the European market is becoming increasingly important. This is where we find new and growing markets, which are important for Norwegian business to gain footholds and fit into. Of course, the EEA Agreement is our most important free trade agreement. It covers almost 80 pst. of our export market. The EEA is regularly discussed here in the Chamber. That is why this interpellation is about the challenges facing the development of the free trade agreement network in other markets. The main guide for EFTA has been and is to follow the EU, in order to give Norwegian business the same good conditions in markets outside Europe as its European competitors. I'm assuming that the new government has not intended to change on this main line. The government of Stoltenberg provided a thorough review of our trade policy in Meldning. St. 39 for 2012–2013, Variety of winners. Now this message has been withdrawn by the government of Solberg. I hope we don't have to wait too long until the new Minister of Industry gives Stortinget a similar broad basis for a trade policy review. Norway has 26 free trade agreements with 36 partners. Most of them have been negotiated through EFTA. The next thing we want to ratify is the agreement with Bosnia-Herzegovina. The agreements with 20 of these countries have been concluded since 2005. Negotiations are in progress with a number of key countries, such as India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Russia m/Kazakhstan and Belarus, Malaysia and Thailand. It's being tested with Nigeria and Angola. Iceland and Switzerland have concluded free trade agreements with China, while our negotiations have stopped for reasons we all know. A priority task for the government must be to start negotiations with China. Developments in the number of free trade agreements have accelerated since the Doha Round of WTO negotiations came to an end before the turn of the century. Since 1990, the number of free trade agreements in the world has increased from 50 to 250. The strongest growth is in agreements between developing countries. The Doha Round should, as you know, liberalise trade in agricultural products, reduce customs protection of own production in the countries and remove export subsidies from the same countries — in other words, give poor countries greater opportunities on our markets with what could be their leading export article: food. The same applies to services. Despite the agreement reached in Bali before Christmas — where trade facilitation was the central issue, which is important — considerable optimism is required to believe that the Doha Round will really start up again with the first. Many believe that the time is running from the start of the Doha Round, simply because significant changes have occurred in the developing country group. Many of the developing countries that were key in the 1990s are now among the strongest growing economies. The BRICS countries are the key. It provides a different basis for a development round. There is therefore reason to believe that the FTA network will continue to expand and deepen. Developments over the last ten to twelve years are not only about the number but also about the content and regionalisation of the contractual works. Free trade agreements are now less and less concerned with customs duties and more and more with broad development agreements, partnership agreements, which also include development elements and investments. Here, the EU has far stronger instruments to play on than EFTA. It poses challenges for us. We cannot stand with the same carrots as the European Union can. We must rely on the more limited opportunities available to each EFTA country, in practice Norway and Switzerland, for example. development cooperation on energy development. This issue needs to be discussed in the EFTA Community. At the EFTA's annual ministerial meeting in Iceland in 2010, it was decided that EFTA should have its own environmental and employee rights chapters in future agreements – not just references to international agreements in these areas in the preface to the agreement. It's positive and it's been followed up. However, many of the EFTA Free Trade Agreements are from the 1990s and need to be updated to capture developments in recent years. This will require environmental and labour rights to be incorporated into the new, up-to-date agreements. These are also areas that require us to assist our partners in the development of legislation, tools and structure. It can be anything from assisting with knowledge and experience, for example: on the importance of tripartite cooperation in working life for more concrete assistance, such as environmental technologies. The issues surrounding the contract agency, which takes into account climate and environment, employee rights and respect for human rights in partner countries, will be issues we need to discuss. What should and may be the ambitions of agreements whose main purpose is to develop trade between partners? This was particularly updated in the context of the Colombia Agreement. I assume that the new government will follow up the work of getting a side agreement on these issues with Colombia, so that we can ratify the free trade agreement. It will also be able to underpin the ongoing peace negotiations between the authorities and the FARC guerrilla. This issue will be very topical when negotiations with the customs union of Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus are concluded. Belarus has a long way to go in these areas, to put it diplomatically. The country is also not a member of the WTO and will hardly be a member of the WTO for a long time. WTO membership has been a prerequisite for our free trade agreements, including: because of the dispute resolution mechanism it provides certainty. Another development is an increasing number of regional free trade agreements and partnership agreements that can really change the global structure of trade. The Trans-Pacific Partnership, which includes, inter alia: The United States, Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Vietnam, Indonesia, Singapore, and Malaysia cover 25 pst. is an example of world trade. The regional partnership in Asia, including: China, India, South Korea, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Vietnam, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand cover 40 pst. of world trade. The new major challenge now is, of course, the prospects for a transatlantic trade and investment agreement between the United States and the EU will mean Norway and the other EFTA countries. If the ambition for an agreement that also includes legislation on standards and regulations is reached, we are facing an agreement that is even stronger than what the EU is doing now, setting global standards in most areas – standards and regulations that all countries with export ambitions have to deal with, whether in terms of electricity security, food security or emissions requirements from cars. As an EEA member, we will have to deal not only with Brussels, but also with Washington in terms of internal market legislation. The global commercial policy perspective of such an agreement is, of course, to take the lead in relation to China and other growing actors. But for us, the demanding perspective is that we, together with Switzerland, Iceland and Liechtenstein, are placed on the sidelines in relation to an agreement that can strongly lead to the regulation of a market we are an integral part of. This is a challenge I expect the Council of State will explain how we and our EFTA partners are going to deal with – what opportunities are there for us to move from the sidelines and get out on the path where this game takes place. We're going to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Constitution this year. The importance of market access for Norwegian exports was also a central element of what happened in 1814 and a driving force for detachment from Denmark. The Danish King's support for Napoleon brought us into confrontation with England, even then one of our most important – perhaps the most important – export markets. Norwegian ports were blocked, shipping and timber exports were hit. There was an emergency in the country. It's a reminder that we had an open, extroverted economy, influenced by the outside world, even when we were a quite poor country, and that trade policy is our most important tool to secure work, value creation and well-being – and worth discussing in this room too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e266	The interpellant has asked for a presentation of the government’s strategy for the further development of the FTA network with regard to new countries, the development of the content of the agreements and the upgrading of older agreements. The government prioritises the work on free trade agreements. In the Sundvolden platform, it is established that the government wants to work for new trade agreements through EFTA. We will work for increased free trade, including between developing countries and developed countries. The main objective of free trade agreements is to establish free trade agreements with countries, or groups of countries, where an agreement will make the greatest possible contribution to value creation and prosperity in Norway through increased trade. EFTA currently has a comprehensive negotiating agenda. It is gratifying to report that we are in the final phase of negotiations with India with a good result for Norwegian business. We aim to conclude negotiations with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan during the current year. [[RuBeKa]] Negotiations with Vietnam, which started in 2012, are well under way. Negotiations with Indonesia, which started in January 2011, are demanding, but we are working to achieve the best possible result. Norway has also given priority to establishing free trade agreements with Thailand and Malaysia. The first meeting with Malaysia has been agreed for March this year. The political situation in Thailand is again difficult, but I hope we can start with Thailand as soon as the situation normalizes. It is important that the content of the free trade agreements is relevant for Norwegian companies. I therefore give priority to upgrading older contracts and will work to include trade in services, investments and public acquisitions in the agreements. At present, renegotiation of agreements with Turkey and Canada respectively is given high priority. A modern agreement with these countries will provide significant added value for Norwegian enterprises. Norwegian foreign trade has been significantly globalised in the last ten years. Analysis of economic development and industrial structure in conjunction with our priority trade interests will form the basis for the prioritisation of new free trade agreements. Increased market access for export interests, such as: ship equipment, machinery, metals, fish, fertilisers, telecommunications services, shipping and services related to the energy sector are given high priority. The desire to protect certain sectors leads to defensive interests, such as drug use and drug use. agriculture, also taken into account. In addition to economic interests, the desire to promote interests such as human rights, good governance, corporate social responsibility and sustainable development in international trade, as well as other Norwegian foreign and development policy interests. Since the economic centre of gravity of the world is being shifted, it is central to the government's efforts to ensure that Norwegian industry is at least as competitive as our competitors and predictable framework conditions in emerging markets. We are therefore reviewing priorities for future free trade agreements. Asia is an area of concern for the government's work on free trade agreements. The region has experienced an adventurous economic growth over the past decades. Norwegian industry has succeeded in getting a solid foothold in the region, in particular in shipbuilding, energy and the export of seafood. We already have agreements with Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore. When these are supplemented by agreements with India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, Norwegian business interests will be well maintained in this part of the world. However, it is worrying that the two economic giants – China and Japan – are missing from the list of countries in Asia. There has been no movement in Norway’s bilateral negotiations with China since the autumn of 2010. It's a priority that these start up again as soon as possible. I would also like to give priority to bilateral negotiations with Japan, but I must recognise that it may still be difficult to persuade Japan to give priority to Norway as they slow down the further liberalisation of seafood imports. The ripping development of the Australian offshore industry has contributed to a significant increase in Norwegian exports and investments in Australia. I believe that a free trade agreement with Australia will bring benefits to the Norwegian export industry, but can be challenging for our agricultural interests. In addition to Asia, the government will examine the possibility of establishing new free trade agreements with countries in South America. Brazil is an economic power with significant commercial interests. Norwegian businesses demand better export and investment conditions in Brazil, where customs duties are high and investment legislation contributes to unforeseeable and high costs. At the same time, we know that Brazil's export interests are primarily linked to agricultural products. Trade and investment are also growing in several sub-Saharan countries, and Norway has special interests in Angola and Nigeria. Statistics showed that last year six of the ten fastest growing countries in the world were south of the Sahara. These are hard facts that we can't ignore when we're going to look at the longer-term priorities. As demonstrated by the Sundvolden platform, the government will increase the use of bilateral investment agreements – BITs – where appropriate. As you know, Norway has not completed BIT since the mid-1990s, and it is currently not a clear mandate to start these negotiations. For us, it is important to find a solution for this type of agreement that meets the needs of industry in a good way, without the agreements restricting the legitimate right of the host country to regulate on its own territory. Since December 2009, the European Commission has had a mandate to negotiate investment protection on behalf of the Member States. It will be important to look to the EU in our efforts to arrive at Norwegian positions and priority countries. We are now working on a mandate to start negotiations in 2014. As mentioned, new issues have emerged on the trade policy agenda. In recent years, the social and environmental dimensions of trade have become prominent aspects of the debate on trade policy. The Chapter on Trade and Sustainable Development is now presented in all EFTA negotiations and it has also been decided to address the issue at meetings with partner countries where the Chapter does not form part of the Free Trade Agreement. However, there is no doubt that this is a demanding issue that meets the opposition of several of our negotiating partners. Nevertheless, we believe that this is an important issue, and my starting point is that we should work towards the inclusion of trade and sustainable development in our future free trade agreements. The EU and the United States have launched negotiations on a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership – TTIP. TTIP will have implications for Norwegian interests and it is therefore important to follow this process closely. EFTA has taken the initiative to establish a trade policy dialogue between the United States and EFTA. The first meeting of this dialogue was held in Washington last November. The next meeting will be held during the first six months of this year with the participation of industry. The EU and the United States have signalled high regulatory ambitions. Amendments to EU legislation resulting from an agreement with the United States will be relevant to Norway through the EEA Agreement. Norway is working for Norwegian interests through the formal EEA channels and addressed this at the latest meeting of the EEA Council. This is not least the case when any changes to EU legislation resulting from negotiations with the United States are to be operationalised. All available channels are used to obtain information about the process and to exert influence to safeguard Norwegian interests. The EU-US process is still at an early stage, and it is too early to consider how Norwegian interests can best be addressed. I want to work to ensure better access to foreign markets by negotiating free trade agreements with countries where we have significant interests. The free trade agreements shall also contribute to the overall objective of sustainable development for Norway and the world. Global trade flows are dynamic, and the upgrading of older agreements and the further development of agreements are therefore an important part of our strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e306	I thank the Council of State for its response and for a thorough review of the status of ongoing negotiations with important countries. I also think the Council of State confirmed that it would be important to include what is missing in older agreements, namely its own chapters on the environment and employee rights, when upgrading these agreements. That's good. This suggests that there should be broad agreement on trade policy. In terms of the two big white spots on our Asia map, Japan and China, there are some real problems that I think we all see. The fish in Japan may be a little bit simpler than getting back to China, but here I think we're going to have to try to get a joint effort to overcome the problems that we so know are there for the Chinese. The Councils of State referred to Australia. It's kind of an illustration of the dilemma we have when we have big offensive interests in fish exports, and important defensive interests in terms of what Australia wants to be like fish, namely agriculture. The same thing is true of Brazil. The Council of State also mentions something that will be a change in relation to previous agreements, namely to open up BITs. I am pleased she stresses that solutions need to be found that safeguard the right of partner countries to regulate, and I think it is an example of how important it is to have a discussion here in the Chamber, so that we can have a common starting point and an understanding of what the issues are, and what the objectives are – so that at least there is no disagreement on a wrong basis. I also think it is important to try to get the debate on trade policy outside this room, into public space, because there are non-governmental organisations out there that have interests in it. It's just through a broader dialogue and a broader debate I think we can find a common platform, also outside this house. It is also good to hear that a trade policy dialogue has been established with regard to the negotiations that are taking place between the United States and the EU. There is also a really demanding situation where I think we should have a common political ambition – and platform – to hang on to the most possible of the negotiations and take care of Norwegian interests as far as possible, when, after all, we are in the situation we are in, that is, on the sideline.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e321	As the interpellant, I experience a broad political outreach on the main lines of Norwegian trade policy, and it provides a very good starting point for the government's further work to ensure the best possible framework conditions for Norwegian companies – for that is what this is all about. I also very much agree with the interpellant that there is strikingly little debate around this outside this room. It's strikingly just because we're a small, open economy, and this means a lot to Norwegian companies. As for BITs, we're going to get back to that. Of course, it is our goal that we should reach the broadest possible consensus in this area as well and get a good starting point for the work we are doing. Once we have notified that we are doing this work well, it is because it is demanded by Norwegian business. So we're going to get back to that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e330	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this matter. It is important for Norwegian industry, which is very export oriented. As the situation is still today, 80 pst is going. exports largely to Europe. But the growth in the economy and access to new markets is great in both South America, Asia and Africa, so it's important to be on the ball there. I believe that the Stoltenberg government was offensive in trade policy and worked hard to establish new free trade agreements. From 2005 until the government change, ten free trade agreements were signed and three agreements were signed which had already been negotiated before 2005 and eight new ones were launched. So here it's been an important ‘train’ for business. The Labour Party will also, through the WTO, work to further develop the international trading system in a way that respects Norwegian interests, and new global trade agreements must aim to ensure that countries that are working out poverty can also participate in international trade. It will therefore become even more important than before being concerned with what the representative Svein Roald Hansen refers to – that the agreements respect both environmental and employee rights – because we negotiate with countries that have a completely different situation than us in that area. So it's important for us to take a responsibility for lifting, also there. It will be an important job in the future to strengthen the WTO based on what we meet around the world, related to what is going on in increasing economic nationalism and protectionism. I also think that this is important when we extend the EFTA network of free trade agreements to new countries with growing markets, for example. In Africa, we're taking this with us. But the challenges are many in such negotiations too, so what will the government focus on in the negotiations with, for example. African countries? And how will the government work to get focus on employee rights, environmental standards, etc.? How does the government view the situation we face China? There has been a really locked situation here, but how do you see that you can start rolling it further – what are the measures you want? So the government of Solberg drew this big message, Meld. St. 39 for 2012–2013, Variety of winners, and therefore it is timely to ask: How does the government view it further? Will there be your own big message from this government, or is there any other way you can see the job going forward? I also want to enter into the free trade agreement that was introduced in 2008 with Colombia, because here it was a difficult situation to get a focus on employee rights because of the situation there. Are there any plans to actually go back and see what you can do with that agreement? Because it was also said that you should come back to it. As the interpellant had in mind, EFTA is negotiating with Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, and in the situation facing it, it is important that we also have references to human rights, employee rights, anti-corruption and corporate social responsibility. It is not easy to be a Norwegian business and to negotiate and work with these countries, but how can safer frameworks be put in place in the future? When addressing the issue of the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between EFTA and the customs union Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, the issue of how the relationship with the human rights situation was assessed was also raised, but this should also be addressed in the future; there is no clear indication of this. It is important that the Councils of State are active against these countries — not only in relation to EFTA but also have an commitment to and look at how to address the various challenges facing industry. The customs situation is also something you face: the Council of State was aware of it when it came to Brazil, that the customs situation – if you go in and look at how you can solve the challenges that go on concrete things – can be a door opener to business even outside a free trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e351	First, I want to give praise to the interpellant to focus on an important area for our businesses. Norway has a small and open economy, and by participating in international trade, we have been able to achieve a higher level of prosperity than we would be able to achieve alone. Trade is one of the strongest drivers of economic growth and contributes to creating jobs and lasting economic prosperity worldwide. The government will work for a freer trade and pursue an offensive trade policy that focuses on Norwegian interests. Through EFTA, Norway has one of the world’s most comprehensive network of free trade agreements with countries outside EFTA and the EU/EEA. Today, 25 free trade agreements have been signed with a total of 36 countries, and there are ongoing negotiations with a number of other countries. The agreements ensure Norwegian companies increased market access and better predictability of exports of goods, services and investments. A growing number of countries enter into regional or bilateral trade agreements, which may result in Norwegian producers and exporters being discriminated against in important markets. The EFTA Agreements aim to eliminate both existing and potential discrimination against our goods and services and are therefore important instruments for strengthening Norwegian business in a global market. Trade agreements will reduce the trade barriers in the countries with which we are negotiating in order to increase Norwegian exports of goods and services. It is appropriate to negotiate trade agreements jointly with the other EFTA countries, for together we become more interesting partners for countries than if we had been alone. Norway also has a strong influence on the road choices made in EFTA. The Free Trade Agreements complement Norway's commitments in the WTO. International business cooperation and cross-border trade stimulate innovation, profitability and competitiveness. The Government will facilitate competitive export finance schemes and strengthen the internationalisation of Norwegian business. It agrees that a chapter on trade and sustainable development will be presented in ongoing and future negotiations on free trade agreements. The chapter covers the themes environment and employee rights and is intended as a common starting point. The Sustainable Development Chapter creates an arena to address trade and sustainable development issues between the parties and to agree that it is necessary to respect fundamental principles in this area. It is good that there is a great deal of consensus in the Storting on these matters, which gives the work a weighty and common goal. I would like to commend the Council of State for its high ambitions in this area, in terms of negotiations and renegotiations, but also to be close to the processes that are taking place, in order to ensure that Norwegian interests are best safeguarded. This is an important area for Norway and not least for the South, which is at the top of the country in terms of exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e368	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for taking up the topic, and it has interesting issues. As mentioned above, the main strategy for EFTA is to shade the EU, in order to ensure that Norwegian industry has the same market access as its competitors in EU countries. But we see that in agreements with countries where EFTA was previously out, the EU has concluded more comprehensive agreements, creating the need for upgrading our agreements. We also see that the EU is ahead of EFTA and Norway, for example. with the United States. Furthermore, the EU has ratified the free trade agreement with Colombia, and so has the United States, which Norway does not have, and which will undoubtedly affect both Norwegian and Colombian businesses. This while our competitors in the EU and the United States have a competitive advantage. The main objective of a free trade agreement is to create value creation and prosperity in Norway through trade, to increase trade between the contracting parties. That is why I am actually somewhat concerned when I record that some groups and politicians want a free trade agreement to contain much more of things than customs reductions, customs freedom, investment protection and trade. Strong forces want free trade agreements to address environmental policy, human rights, labour rights and corporate social responsibility, etc. I actually want to warn a little bit about this development. We already see that some countries do not accept such interference in their country's domestic policy issues. Among other things, as I understand it, this is the main reason why the signed free trade agreement between Norway, EFTA and Colombia, which was signed five years ago, has not been sent to the Grand Council for ratification – because some civil society organisations were not satisfied with the agreement because, among other things, they were not satisfied with the agreement. wanted to refer to employee rights. This is a good thing to work for, which I think everyone in this room agrees, but is it going to be an ultimatum from Norway to have with this in a free trade agreement and in all future free trade agreements? What if the counterparty says no – should it not be a free trade agreement? Who's losing it? All of them. Who wins? None, as I see it. It reminds me a little of the debate we have had in the Committee on Budgets and in this Chamber several times, on the ethical guidelines for our oil fund, that we have, for example. shall not hold shares in companies which are liable to damage the environment and are subject to critical conditions with regard to employees' rights, etc. Then it was desirable – and a demand – to sell out, something we in the Progress Party and I have warned against, for who is winning it? The better it is that, as a partner in the company, these challenges and critical conditions can be addressed at the general meeting of the company and proposed changes and put them on the agenda. If you're not a co-owner, you don't have this opportunity. So back to the question of a free trade agreement: it is supposed to create more trade between Norway and other nations, and as we know, trade creates peace. There is more dialogue between business in each of the countries and between politicians in each of the countries. Trade gets poor out of poverty, and trade creates peace. Is it wise, then, to interfere in domestic policy issues and demand one and the other when negotiating a free trade agreement? I don't mean that, and I want to warn you a little bit about such a development. We have other forums for such questions where you can do it. Finally, I would like to mention that EFTA is also considering opening negotiations with African countries, such as Angola. What's the idea here, and what's to be offered from the Norwegian side? For many of these countries, there is already full freedom of duty for all goods entering Norway, as I understand it. Is it, then, to understand that the other EFTA countries do not currently grant these African countries full customs freedom? Are there any more bilateral investment protection agreements? If Norway and EFTA are to have strict requirements for our potential new trading partners in free trade agreements, it may be a bit strange that we do not have the same requirements for the poorest countries in the world that are currently fully free of customs duties in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e389	Let me first thank the representative Svein Roald Hansen for taking the initiative in this interpellation debate and the Minister of Industry for her answer. From the Christian People's Party's side, we have been positive about expanding international free trade. Especially for smaller countries like Norway, it is to have a secure framework for free world trade of great value. The fact that we can have an international trade, where all parties can benefit from different countries' advantages in the production of different goods, has given rise to generations of positive effects on economic growth and prosperity development. For Norway has, among other things, exports of fish would be important for a long time. That we have had access to markets in other countries has given us large incomes and buyers access to valuable food. And in recent years, consumers in both Norway and many other Western industrialized countries have been able to access cheap industrial products from China and other low-cost countries. In practice, we have free trade in Western Europe, i.e. through the EEA Agreement. in EU and EFTA countries. Since the 1990s, EFTA has also made a major effort to develop free trade agreements with other countries outside our EEA territory. As the interpellant mentions, EFTA has no 26 free trade agreements which provide market access to 36 countries. They are found in different parts of the world, including in developing countries. It has been said in this debate that a main strategy is to overshadow EU agreements in order to gain market access with other countries. That is right, but not entirely true, because EFTA has actually also been a transit organization in this area. Since the 1990s, EFTA has achieved a range of free trade agreements with other non-EU countries. In fact, EFTA has entered into more free trade agreements than the EU has established with such countries. One of the reasons is likely to be that EFTA is made up of smaller countries, with fewer core economic areas to concentrate on than the EU. It makes it easier for EFTA than for the EU. However, we also see that the EU has now concluded wider agreements with countries with which EFTA has previously concluded free trade agreements. It gives reason for EFTA to upgrade its agreements. For example, a statement of this trend. also EFTA’s free trade agreement with Hong Kong, which was entered into force in 2012. This agreement covers a wide range of areas – not only trade in goods and services, but also investment and protection of intellectual property. When we expand the content of such trade agreements, we also encounter more serious questions about their impact on the national space for action, on the environment and on workers' rights. Most of the countries with which we negotiate know how to take good care of their own interests in the negotiation of trade agreements. However, democracy is not as well developed everywhere – nor is it the protection of minorities and the environment. That is why, on our side, we must also assess whether such agreements can have an unfortunate side effect on minorities, poor peoples or natural values in the contracting countries. There is now hope of progress in the work of a more world-wide free trade agreement through the WTO, the World Trade Organisation. This work has been going on for a long time, and it is important that we now revise old agreements and get a chapter on the environment and employee rights. In many ways, a global approach to common mechanisms to monitor possible violations of the rules will be a better solution and will guarantee the security of small countries and what we can call equality of laws. Without a well-developed international law, small countries can be more easily sacrificed to power. Therefore, building international law – including in the field of trade – will contribute to a better and fairer value.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e415	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for the inter-pellation and the possibility of this debate in the Stortinget which it contributes to. The economic crisis in Europe in recent years and the difficult economic times have in many ways changed the nature and speed of some of the work on free trade agreements. At the same time, we also see that other, wider international agreements are waiting. WTO work has been under way for several years, and that also means developing the trade debate between groupings of countries or between countries to facilitate increased cross-border trade. There is no doubt that Norway can have more opportunities to export our goods through increased free trade, but at the same time it is also a great responsibility to contribute to a policy that provides, among other things, for us. developing countries' potential for growth and development through balanced trade agreements. There is no doubt that trade policy must be balanced with different approaches, which are also important, including: environmental, development and food considerations. To agree bilaterally on free trade agreements is often a complex and quite complex process, and that also means that negotiations are often long and comprehensive. One of the most complex areas of such negotiations is often the question of agriculture and food. It is also for good reason that it is, because it is important to separate food from other types of goods. International food trade may distort the establishment of local or regional food markets and hinder plans and desires for maritime supply and food security. Freer cross-border trade is also often at increased risk of spreading plant and animal diseases, and it may also increase the level of genetically modified food. In the ongoing free trade negotiations between the United States and the EU, there is a clear question. Several researchers and critics of genetically modified food express a strong concern that European consumers may be exposed to several genetically modified foods through a possible new free trade agreement with the United States. One of the reasons for this is, among other things: the United States of America refuses to label genetically modified products and wishes to introduce them into the EU without labelling. As I said, the potential for increased exports of Norwegian goods — particularly in the maritime and energy sectors — is high. This also applies in other areas where Norway has a special advantage. It is not always as easy to envisage a standard for all types of free trade agreements. Some free trade agreements could be more extensive and wider, while others would be more specific. It is well possible that, in extending what is happening in the EU, consideration should also be given to upgrading the existing free trade agreements held by EFTA and Norway. It must also be remembered that there is a rather rigid realism in this type of negotiations on increased market access, and that all countries are negotiating on the basis of their own interests – which is quite legitimate. Here one must assume that it is not necessarily the case that Norway and the EFTA countries will have common interests with the EU in all contexts. Providing that EFTA should upgrade in line with, or on the same basis as, the EU is not given without notice. Increased trade offers opportunities for more growth and value creation. For the Central Party, it is important to stress that commercial policy must also balance commercial advantage with other considerations. It concerns the interests of both the environment, food and development, and we need to have high expectations that our trading partners will also respect environmental and employee rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e438	I would also like to thank you for the initiative and for the presentation by the Council of State. Norway has an open economy. Many people claim that we have a small economy, but we have a very big economy in relation to the size of our own country. We're also going to include that in this perspective. It is important that we establish free trade agreements for our businesses, and it is also important for our partners that they establish free trade agreements so that they can develop their economy. I thank you for the presentation, which was thorough. It is important that we get free trade agreements into place against Latin America, an increasingly important area for Norway, but also internationally. I think it's time to look at the free trade agreement negotiated with Colombia again to see if it can now be ratified. We in the Left also think it is right to look at the possibilities in Africa. There is a significant area of growth, the rule of law is being built up in many of the countries, and there is a democratic development that makes it natural to look beyond possible free trade agreements. The same thing in Asia. Then there is one major process, which the Council of State took up, which is the process of new free trade agreements negotiations between the EU and the United States. I think it is absolutely essential that Norway be kept informed and have a close dialogue with the European Union as it is where we already have a free trade agreement through the EEA Agreement. It is important that we have a close dialogue with the EU and try to influence that process as best we can on behalf of Norwegian business, and we can use political weight based on the position we have within the EEA Agreement. As many have pointed out, it is important to consider free trade agreements also as part of Norway’s other foreign policy and as a means of safeguarding our values and interests in addition to purely industrial policy. I am pleased that the Council of State says that sustainability is a key factor in the conclusion of free trade agreements, and that social issues and workers' rights are also addressed. But on the left, we want to place the crucial emphasis on making demands, and on seeing the importance of what is involved in human rights, good governance and democratic development. Of the free trade agreements currently being worked on – and where this is most evident – this concerns the free trade agreements currently in force with Belarus in particular and with Kazakhstan. On the left, we believe that agreements must be put in place to address human rights. It is too easy to say that Belarus and Kazakhstan must be part of a free trade agreement that we need with Russia. For the Left, it is clear that as long as Belarus is Europe’s last dictatorship, with extensive human rights violations and without an open, free economy, it would not be right to conclude a free trade agreement. There must be an agreement in which not only a general agreement is reached to follow international human rights agreements, but one must have a real content that allows the direction to be influenced in the countries with which free trade agreements are concluded. Such is the situation today in Belarus, and this is the situation today in Kazakhstan, the Left believes that we should not enter into a free trade agreement with these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e448	Thank you first to the interpellant and then to the Minister of Industry for a good account of the government's work in trade policy. There is no doubt that investment abroad is important for Norwegian value creation and for the competitiveness of our companies. A number of key Norwegian industries – energy, fish, maritime food exports and shipbuilding – are examples of outbound industries that have benefited from increased trade and fewer customs and trade barriers. I would also like to link the importance of trade agreements with the role that trade plays for developing countries. Together with education, democratic construction, environment and respect for human rights, economic development is at the heart of the development policy of the Right-wing Party Government. Only in the last ten years have several hundred million people gone from absolute poverty to increased wealth. It is indicative of the importance of globalisation and international free trade and how it affects the growth capacity of each country. Economic growth, together with targeted development projects, is the strongest driver for people to get out of poverty permanently. Therefore, improving the ability of developing countries to participate in the global economy is very important. Norway is an important player in aid and development policy, but we may not have been good enough in recent years to see the benefits of increased trade with developing countries. Former development minister Erik Solheim is perhaps the one who has been most self-critical in this way. Yes, a targeted trade policy is therefore part of the recipe for a successful development strategy, and I am pleased that the government puts this clearly and highly on its agenda. The Minister of Industry has announced progress in part of the trade processes. The left was in on it, too. It is a good signal to many Norwegian companies dealing with the countries concerned, both by the inter-pellant and the Minister of Industry, but at the same time it is important to speed up some of the processes at moderate speed and to take into account in particular the human rights situation of some of the negotiating parties. In particular, I would like to highlight the situation in Belarus as an example of the need to assess trade against clear human rights violations. The global trading picture must also be taken into account when discussing trade agreements. At the Bali meeting in December last year, where several were present, decisions were taken to open up the possibility of reopening the negotiations on the core areas of the Doha Round, i.e. market access for agricultural products, industrial products, fish, services, subsidies, etc. Norway must continue to be a driver and support the work of a new trade regime through the WTO and to improve access to the Norwegian market for several poor countries. Perhaps the most exciting developments in the last year have taken place outside the WTO, but in our immediate sphere of interest, namely in the transatlantic trade area. The negotiations on a free trade agreement between the United States and the EU — TTIP — have a format and a range that means that we in Norway have to follow closely the work. The agreement will strengthen the Atlantic partnership with a stronger economic dimension. Yes, in fact it has been referred to as the economic NATO. It says a little bit about the importance and the proportions. It is likely to be a very comprehensive agreement. Although we are now seeing a happy rise in the wake of the financial crisis, a more transparent and better regulated trade could help to give both Europe and the United States a sustainable, strong economic growth. Norway could be affected by both trade distortions and the EEA, but the effects are not necessarily negative and, of course, growth in the EU and the United States is generally good for Norway. The Norwegian Institute of Foreign Affairs has looked at the figures and concluded that such an agreement could have a good effect also on Norway and Norwegian enterprises that had to enter into a negotiated, future agreement. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Industry has made considerable efforts to identify how a potential free trade agreement over the Atlantic could affect Norwegian interests. I am pleased that the government is now having a good dialogue on trade issues through the EEA and EFTA in parallel with the current negotiations between the United States and the EU. Finally, I would like to stress once again the importance of trade in a development perspective. Education, sustainability, environment, robust social institutions, rule of law and protection of private property are some of the keys to economic progress. For us who want a more open trade policy: we have history with us – more trade on equal terms creates a better world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e465	I would like to thank you for your commitment to the debate, which, at my discretion, has shown two things. One is that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber on the main lines of trade policy, and it will be a continuation of what the previous government has stood for. Then there is one dissonance, one exception, and it is within the government parties, namely the representative Jørund Rytman, the Progress Party, who warns against involving environmental considerations, employee rights, good governance and democracy in the free trade agreements. I think it's completely wrong thinking, because we don't necessarily do it to achieve something in these areas in isolation, but because it's in the industrial interests of developing countries to get this in place. Nobody wants to invest in a country where there is no legal certainty about their investment. We see how what has happened in Bangladesh, where factories collapse, is so negative for companies that buy goods from there. That's this context we have to see it in. This was discussed in EFTA, where Swiss business was strongly opposed to having separate sections on employee rights and the environment. It was an intriguing debate at the EFTA meeting in Iceland in 2010, when the then Swiss Minister for Trade, Doris Leuthard, went to his business people and said, "Now you have to stop, because this is something we have to have because it will serve Swiss business to also have partners out there who respect human rights." So what this debate has shown is that here, the Minister of Trade must rely on a different majority than the government normally relies on. But it's gonna be okay. Let me briefly comment on what Ola Elvestuen said. He was not supposed to enter into a free trade agreement with Belarus and Kazakhstan. I think we would agree on that here in the Chamber if it were possible to split them up, but then we had to choose whether to say no to Russia as well – that's the big dilemma. I think this illustrates that there are some aspects of some of our partners that we want to make an agreement with, with which perhaps the government should discuss with the Storting in the appropriate forums, in order to express myself that way. Marit Arnstad pointed to the dilemmas that always lie there when Norway is going to conclude free trade agreements, namely the fish offensive and the defensive to care for Norwegian agriculture. It is there, but I would like to stress that free trade does not mean trade without rules. The fact that we trade food should also include food security. Finally, I hope the Council of State will come back with a big message or in an appropriate way provide the basis for a deeper and wider debate here in the Chamber on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e485	I would like to thank you for a good debate on the work of free trade agreements and would just like to say briefly that if anyone has questioned the fact that this government has withdrawn the previous government’s announcement of industrial policy, it would hardly require any explanation. I have underlined that we are going to pursue an active trade policy that contributes to the development of industry and value creation. Norway has a wide network of agreements through EFTA, and I am committed to expanding that network for the benefit of Norwegian business. We have a strategy for work on free trade agreements to underpin Norwegian interests internationally, and I will give priority to negotiating good free trade agreements to ensure Norwegian companies increased access to foreign markets under stable and predictable framework conditions. Maybe that's some of what we've been doing most after accession. Some questions were asked. I will try very briefly to report back. As far as the situation with China is concerned, it is at the top of the Foreign Minister's agenda. We are ready to negotiate as soon as possible. As far as Colombia is concerned, the agreement was signed in 2008. It has not yet been ratified. I am concerned that the government will discuss it as soon as possible. It has been negotiated a so-called Memorandum of Understanding on political consultations with Colombia. It is a MoU that contains explicit references to employee rights and human rights. As far as RuBeKa is concerned, the challenge is that Russia is important for Norwegian business, White Russia is definitely not. The government is in a position to debate its own issues. EFTA has been clearly opposed to Belarus in the negotiations, such as: does not add rounds of negotiations to Belarus. Then we will review the priorities that I set out: Asia and Africa south of the Sahara. There is agreement on a declaration of cooperation with, inter alia, Nigeria. We're busy with South America, with Brazil at the head. We renegotiate important agreements to strengthen Canada. As for the relationship with TTIP, which the representative Arnstad was in, I agree that we have to follow two tracks. We have to go our own way. We do: an interministerial working group looks at our opportunities, we have our channels and do our job. At the same time, we work very well with our friends in EFTA to follow these processes and see what this entails for Norway. I also feel that there is a great deal of consensus that we need to be clear about sustainable development, the environment, employee rights, good governance and human rights. I also have no disagreement in the government parties about this, but there can be disagreement about the details, and it must always be allowed to take the debate. This is an important industrial policy, which is why it has a high priority on our part.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e511	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e525	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e539	Changes to the marine resource laws proposed here are based on the introduction of a home that allows exemptions from the general scope of sport and recreational fishing in the marine resource laws. This change will make it easier to authorise activities that can promote and take care of coastal culture. The Committee shares the view that it is important to facilitate the preservation and promotion of our coastal culture in the best possible way, and it is thus a joint committee that supports this amendment. In the Committee's view, the change in the law will also be positive in terms of promoting local travel by facilitating experience tourism. The Committee has noted that in the hearing there were comments from Norway’s Fiskerlag, Norway’s Coastal Fisheries Team, Norsk Sjømannsförbund, Sunnmøre and Romsdal Fisksallag and the Fish Purchases Association, which are critical of this change we are now making. They are afraid that the costs of operating and maintaining vessels are being financed by fishing, and they also point out that the safety requirements can be difficult to meet. It is a joint committee which points out that the concern of fishermen must be heavy and that a ban on turnover must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, in order to protect professionals and the interests of the other operators. There shall be a strict practice with regard to whom such a derogation should be granted. Dispensation shall only be granted to museums, associations, foundations, etc. which has as its specific purpose the promotion and maintenance of our coastal culture. The Committee also points out that there is an upper turnover limit of SEK 50000 per calendar year for catches made by non-labelled vessels and that it can also be set as a condition for non-transposition of catches. The Committee agrees with the amendments made by law that exemptions should be granted only in specific cases in order to promote and preserve coastal culture and to allow conditions for the exemption, in order to ensure that the interests of professionals are also properly safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e568	The case rapporteur, Frank Bakke-Jensen, is not present. The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will explain the matter to the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e571	The case rapporteur, Frank Bakke-Jensen, is not sitting tight, but hesitant – I think there are snow problems at the Gardermoen. That is why he has asked me to say a little about the suspension and about the notification, which concerns the fisheries agreements with other countries for 2013, and to fish for the agreements in 2011 and 2012. This is joyous. It is a message that provides Storting with useful information. The setting shows strong support for the policy pursued and that has been pursued. Such a message is traditionally presented to the Stortinget annually. This Communication refers to the 2013 quota agreements and Norwegian participation in multilateral fisheries cooperation and regional management organisations. In addition, the Communication on population analysis, advice, state reports and long-term management plans for the main populations shared by Norway with other countries. In addition, the Communication provides information on the control measures in place to control Norwegian and foreign fishing on agreed allowances, as well as control cooperation with other countries and measures against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, etc. I would like to highlight some areas that have been given attention during the Committee's consideration. Firstly, the Committee considers international cooperation to be essential for successful and sustainable fisheries management and for combating fishing crime and non-regulated fishing. The fisheries agreements are based on long-term management work which provides a basis for us today to reap from strong fish stocks. Just our good reputation as managers of large fish stocks also gives us an advantage in other meetings and negotiations with nations with which we cooperate. Good resource control and competent management are important. At the same time, reasonable Norwegian interests must be safeguarded. The Committee took the view that efforts were being made to achieve the best possible agreements for Norway. Secondly, the Committee has promoted international control cooperation. In particular, through the Spain agreement in January 2013, we have bilateral control agreements with all countries that have interests in our marine areas. It is important in the future work on UUU fishing – which is responsible for illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing – and fishing crime. Thirdly, we can record that the European Union has reached its major compromise on the common fisheries policy. The EU adopted, inter alia: a draft ban. Cooperation with the EU must continue with a view to maximising the management of the common fish stocks in the North Sea. Finally, I would like to point out that it can be recorded in the examination of this year's notification that fishing for mackerel in Norwegian waters can now be opened. I would like to conclude by saying that this communication has well explained the work of the Norwegian fisheries agreements and that this is an important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e592	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e608	Let me first of all congratulate the Minister for Climate and Environment on the responsibility for the wild game. After what I understand, it's concluded with this after this interpellation was traveled. We can take that as a good sign. On the Ministry of Climate and Environment’s website, the Council of State states that the government has a ‘generational perspective’. Therefore, the government of Solberg is to ‘carry on an ambitious climate and environmental policy, the aim of which is ‘to entrust the Earth to our children in at least as good a condition as we took over’. I very much agree. The wording is very close to what appeared for the first time in 1987, through the final report of the Brundtland Commission. This report changed the way we thought about environmental issues, and it was in this report that the concept of sustainable development was used for the first time. Sustainable development is about caring for the needs of people living today without destroying the ability of future generations to meet their needs. This is, of course, demanding and balancing in the interface between many cross-cutting interests. These include: ensuring that natural qualities and biodiversity are not confused, ensuring that good seas, seas and land areas do not impair our ability to produce food, and ensuring that we do not least tackle our efforts vigorously against the greatest challenge of our time: climate. If we are to achieve this goal – fulfill promises for future generations – we need to ensure that these questions are adequately addressed in everything we do. This applies in the administration as well as in political leadership and conclusions. It's about always having a political awareness of these very important questions. In other words, it must be a theme that is clearly expressed in our overall priorities. There are several reasons why I think this discussion is important now. We've got a government that, in my view, parkes Stortinget as a legislative assembly: You take advantage of the Test Act by giving the time's release for motorized travel in the countryside, by giving snowmobiles nearly free access to our nature as long as this is municipal political will. This is in itself a very politically interesting matter, but I shall leave it in this round. However, I would like to point out that those who want to point out that the use of snowmobiles affects natural diversity, the environment, etc. will no longer have their complaint dealt with by the government council responsible for this, but by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. We now have an oil and energy minister who interprets the natural diversity law – which is properly managed by the Minister for Climate and Environment – as being too strict, especially in terms of power lines. In this regard, it would be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Climate and Environment shares the view of the Minister for Oil and Energy. Is it necessary to have a moving interpretation or an interpretation register at your discretion, as the Minister for Oil and Energy thinks, or, if the law is too strict, should you seek a solution from the Stortinget as a legislative assembly? We have an agricultural minister who says yes to the degradation of food soil, while apparently only the Minister of Climate and Environment in the government of Solberg is to defend the food soil – against assessments available in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. We have a government that has said it will strengthen the climate agreement, but both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have shown us so far that climate is almost a non-existent theme. We have a government that has moved the plan department from what was once the Ministry of the Environment. The total area management is now under the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. In my opinion, from a natural, environmental and climate perspective, this is challenging, especially in view of the authority of the climate and environmental voices in the administration. The transformation and move must be interpreted to mean that the relationship with nature, the environment and the climate has been too obvious in management and in policy decisions. If that's the case – something I guess – there's a big cause for concern. On the other hand, if it turns out that I have assessed this error, it would be interesting to hear the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment's statement. Based on the Sundvolden Declaration, there is reason to pay particular attention to whether we are experiencing a deterioration, perhaps a confusion, of the leadership and political conclusions that deal with issues such as nature, the environment and the climate. I'm not saying we're going to get it, but there's reason to be aware of it. We want to strengthen ownership. What about the Court of Human Rights? They will simplify the Planning and Building Act in the context of regulations. What about today's purpose of land management, nature, environment, climate as central to the law? They will reduce the number of statutory hearing bodies and limit objections to spatial matters. How can we do that without reducing future generations? There are many interesting questions that lie in the extension of the Sundvolden Declaration, among others.: Allow municipalities to grant extension/concession to small, micro and mini-power plants, as well as small wind turbines. The Nature Diversity Act shall be reviewed. They will ensure better management of today's protected areas and, in cases where there are local protection areas, they will have to be managed by municipalities, etc. We could draw a lot of themes from the Health Declaration into this interpellation. What's my starting point is that in the conversation we can probably agree on many of the points, but not if the purpose is to reduce our important task for our descendants by doing the most natural, environmental and climate problems. Norway may have the most varied nature in Europe, with our large land, mountain and sea areas. These are big and well-functioning ecosystems of great importance to us right now. At the same time, these areas must have an eternity perspective in the administration. Natural and well-functioning ecosystems have the greatest importance for us as human beings. Nature intervenes in many areas, indeed in the vast majority of areas, and is the very foundation of our well-being and our common future. Take the history from 1969 of the Swiss couple who were on vacation in Norway and stopped at the Dyranut on Hardangervidda to take pictures of the beautiful nature. A random soil sample was taken from the couple in order to find antibiotics. You couldn't find it. However, the study showed that the soil sample contained a fungus that produced a substance called ciclosporin A. This substance is now used in a number of medicines and is the most commonly used drug in organ transplants because of its damping effect on the immune system. The second story is the enormous possibilities and values that nature has given us, not least through the foot force and the tame of the foot force and the possibilities of producing electrons as the basis for our industrial journey and perhaps the foundation of our industrial structure today. Nature plays an important role in Norwegian culture and tradition. It gives us natural experiences that, in turn, give us positive health effects. Nature also gives us great opportunities, as I said, for value creation. The diversity of species, landscapes and ecosystems found in Norway is unique and complete. This in itself has a significant intrinsic value, which we are obliged to provide for future generations. I want to quickly add that this is, of course, a demanding challenge. The human impact on nature is increasing. The natural diversity is threatened, among other things: land use, pollution, sometimes the exploitation of natural resources and man-made climate change. I am therefore concerned with the major issues raised by nature, the environment and the climate, and how these areas are addressed through management and the political conclusions and leads. I am concerned that the Minister for Climate and Environment has the supporting voice and sufficient authority to discharge our joint responsibility to leave the Earth to our children in at least as good a condition as we ourselves assumed it. I am therefore concerned to learn more about how the Council of State will organise the work to ensure that environmental considerations are sufficiently authoritative in important environmental matters in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e644	I would like to thank the representative of Aasland for asking about a theme that is important to the government. The question gives me the opportunity to explain how we will arrange the work to ensure that environmental concerns are taken into account in important matters in the future. As regards the management of our wild stocks, I would like to stress that this responsibility lies with the Ministry of Climate and Environment, as the representative of Aasland himself pointed out. The government's approach to the new departmental structure is, among other things, addressed in order to strengthen climate action by bringing together more instruments in the climate field in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. At the same time, the link between community and spatial planning and other municipal and regional administrations is strengthened by the responsibility of the Ministry of Local and Modernisation for the Planning Department. Municipalities have important roles in following up national climate and environmental policies. Local planning is about clarifying concrete actions and priorities, linked to both municipal services, own operation and land management. Cross-sectoral, comprehensive planning is necessary both to ensure good climate and environmental solutions in the long term and to make the economic impacts more predictable. Better links between planning, financial management and operation will therefore increase the potential for more offensive municipal action in the climate and environment areas. The fact that one department is now responsible for county councils, county councillors and municipalities also gives rise to an overall approach to interdependence issues. The Planning and Building Act is not amended. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has the same responsibility for the implementation of the objectives of the Planning and Building Act as the Ministry of the Environment had before. These include: to contribute to the coordination of State, regional and municipal tasks and to provide the basis for decisions on the use and protection of resources. The law shall also promote sustainable development. Climate action is part of this. Good land management is essential to preserve the natural environment in Norway. Good planning and good land management are also an important part of climate change work. Land changes are considered to be the greatest threat to natural diversity. This means that all departments responsible for land use interventions and land changes also have a responsibility for land use taking into account nature and being sustainable. Similarly, climate is a central consideration to be given to all matters under the Planning and Building Act that may have consequences for climate. State planning guidelines for, inter alia: climate and energy planning in municipalities and coordinated land and transport planning contribute to this. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has an important cross-sectoral role in coordinating and coordinating government environmental policies. The Ministry is responsible for ensuring that environmental policy objectives are achieved, even though the instruments of various sectors are important to ensure that precisely that objective is achieved. The government should base its policy on the responsibility of the administrator: the globe we leave to our children should be in at least as good shape as when we took it from our ancestors. Therefore, overall efforts by the government in all sectors should focus on environmental and climate considerations. It is my job to make sure that the overall efforts of the government are in line with this. The Planning and Building Act is the central law of Norway for land clearance. The Nature Diversity Act is the central law of Norway to ensure natural diversity. The Cultural Memory Act is the foundation for the preservation of cultural memories. In addition, the Pollution Act is a very central tool to protect the external environment from pollution and to reduce existing pollution. These laws support each other and complement each other. To preserve important environmental values, we need a varied and nuanced toolbox. Something is so threatened, valuable or beautiful that we will propose to protect it. Some environmental values can be achieved through different forms of adaptation to measures that affect them. Other environmental values may have to give way to other important societal interests. Through the entire law, we have such a varied toolbox. Plans and measures relating to nature shall be examined and assessed in line with the Nature Diversity Act and the Impact Assessment Regulation. Although responsibility for the Planning and Building Act has been transferred to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, responsibility for the legislation on impact assessments for measures and plans under laws other than the Planning and Building Act is retained in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. In order to ensure that environmental considerations are taken into account, it is important that municipalities and other public decision-makers acquire, assess and place emphasis on knowledge of the nature affected by the matter under consideration at an early stage. Early knowledge acquisition will also limit conflicts, and we will get faster clarifications. We already have a lot of knowledge about nature, but the knowledge base is still under development. Further work is ongoing on strengthening, inter alia. the work of municipalities in the field of various training activities. I will also help to clearly explain what are important environmental values in concrete matters. There is an important public investigation about the value nature has for us humans. I aim here at NOU 2013:10 Nature's goods – about values of ecosystem services. The report describes the benefits and services we get from nature. The selection points out that nature is under pressure, and that it is often too cheap to overexploit nature. I will follow up the recommendations of the sample by making these values visible in a clear and relevant way in the cases where nature is affected. By 2015, all countries that have signed the UN Convention on Biological Diversity shall have adopted a national nature diversity action plan. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is developing such an action plan. Here, too, there will be close cooperation with other departments. It will show the way for the government's work and priorities in the future in this area. I fully agree with the representative of Aasland that the climate problem is one of the greatest challenges facing the world. The government will pursue an offensive climate policy and strengthen climate reconciliation. A wide range of instruments are used to reduce national emissions. Municipal planning is an important element of this work. All decisions on location and design of industrial activities, dwellings and infrastructure will have a long-term impact on energy use and emissions from transport and buildings. It is therefore essential that municipalities use their authority in this area to operate a climate-smart planning for the future. The government will continue to place clear expectations on the municipalities in this area, and I will cooperate closely with the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on this. My conclusion, therefore, is that the change in the departmental structure does not weaken the possibility of providing adequate authority for environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e678	Let me start by thanking the Minister for Climate and Environment for the answer and for the deepening. I share a great many of the views and assessments of the Minister for Climate and Environment now. The question is whether the changes we have already seen will weaken some of the opportunities and objectives of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment. It is doubtful that the Ministry of Climate and Environment should bear the overall responsibility for nature, the environment, climate, etc., and I do not doubt that the intention of the Minister for Climate and Environment is indeed that of this. But there is no doubt that, for example, the planning department or land management in the Planning and Building Act is an essential part of the national climate work in terms of how an infrastructure is planned, how a person plans residential areas, trading areas, etc. My view is that it is natural for the Minister for Climate and Environment to have an overall responsibility to ensure that decisions and conclusions in line with the Law on Climate Planning and Building are actually taken into account in terms of climate considerations. There is nothing to suggest that it is now automatic, as that responsibility is now not for the Minister for Climate and Environment, but for the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. That's one field. I may have misunderstood, but at least I see it this way. The second is the ratio I took as an example: motorized travel in the field, use of snowmobiles. Yes, we have recorded that it is the government's wish that there should be a municipal administrative task to decide whether to allow it, so that one will have a loop-race based on the area section of the Planning and Building Act and to facilitate that kind of plan. But where there are objections to natural diversity, to the environmental perspective, it is not the Minister for Climate and the Environment – as I see it now – who should be the decisive body for this. In fact, it is also there that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation should be the last to express himself in this way. There is no doubt that, despite the good intentions of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, apparently, in the redeployment chosen by the government, she has reduced her own field of expertise and her own ability to ensure that the important qualities are maintained in the best possible way. I hope that something more can be done about how the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has intended to solve this demanding task, where the issues are often highlighted with conflicting interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e687	It is important to stress that it is the same law to be enforced by another department, it is the same purpose paragraph to be taken into account. Where this government is slightly different from the previous government, it is that we probably have fundamental faith in local self-government as well, and have confidence that the municipalities themselves can manage part of this planning. What is important to us is that the environment and climate should be focused on all policy-making. Then it is important that the environment comes early into planning. When, for example: new roads are planned, it is important that the environmental challenge comes in early, not – as you can see sometimes now – that it comes in at the end and stops important projects. I think that then means that the environment also gets an unfortunate label as something that delays the projects. I also think it's going to be of great value that we now in the same department have both the county officials, the county councils and the municipalities, then with the planning and building law that emphasizes sustainability, and we want to see this in a context. I do not believe that the concern of Aasland that the climate and environment should be weakened by the fact that we have changed the department of the law will be realised. We want to bring this together in one department with the municipalities, county councils and county councillors. And once again, the Planning and Building Act is an important law that has sustainability in itself, and it must be taken care of by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Finally, let me underline: we are one government that has a common responsibility to ensure this whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e698	Of course, it is the government's overall practical policy on which it is to be judged, and it is the privilege of any government to allocate its own work to the government. But we in the Labour Party have wanted this debate, because we fear a weakened Ministry of the Environment and therefore also a weakened environmental policy for our country. It is clearly not immaterial which tasks are placed where, which tools are held by the various ministers of the government. Yesterday, the Workers' Party marked the birthday of Trygve Bratteli through a seminar on climate and environment. Bratteli became the prime minister of the world's first environmental protection ministry. Then there was a struggle over what authority this department should have, what role it should have in the government. Just where the plan department was to be located has been one of the most important things for this department, because of course it is not about where bureaucrats should sit or what should be on their business cards when they are travelling. No, it's about what will be the basis of the decisions they're giving their State Council advice on. It is about giving the Minister the opportunity to put all climate and nature considerations first when necessary, not just make her a consultative body in his own government. The Planning Department has been one of the most important instruments the Minister for the Environment has ever had in the government for climate policy at home — nationally. That is why we fear that we can have a weakened national environmental policy. We wish the Minister every success in all the important international work she will do, now also together with the head of the Workers' Party, but the Ministry of the Environment must never become a ‘mini-UD’. In the absence of a separate Minister for Development, the Minister has also been given responsibility for the rainforest management. I'm sure it'll be very good, but at home we've got a weakened department. The climate threat is the greatest challenge of our time, but it is not the only challenge for which the minister is responsible. Classic nature protection is also important. Just because of climate change with more extreme weather and increased temperature, yes, taking into account nature becomes particularly important. It is even more important to take care of our vulnerable nature and to take care of biodiversity in forests and in water. Here again, the plan department was one of the most important tools the minister had. With a decommissioned Ministry of Fisheries and a weakened Ministry of the Environment, there is reason to be concerned about government policy. The concern is particularly great when the oil and energy minister says that he will take less account of the natural diversity law. Like the representative of Aasland, I want answers on whether the Minister for Climate and Environment shares Lien's view on this matter. Then we notice that we no longer have an environmental protection minister, that the word 'environmental protection' is now out of the minister's title. A small, perhaps immaterial, point that is worth noting is that the minister has lost his first battle against the Ministry of Local Affairs on what abbreviation the ministry should have. A Ministry of Climate and Environment should well be called KMD, but that abbreviation had already been taken by the new Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, so in the Department of the Environment’s abbreviation ‘m’ for ‘environment’ is completely omitted. As I said, it may not be the most important thing, but it's a little bit of a signal that the department doesn't exactly weigh the weight of the government. I hope and believe, in fact, that the minister wakes up every day and thinks about what she's going to do in the course of the day for our climate and environmental policies. But I don't think this is the first municipal minister to think about every time she wakes up: what am I going to do today in terms of climate and environment? I am particularly concerned when the State Secretary, who is responsible for the planning department in his portfolio, is Per-Willy Amundsen, who travelled to the previous climate summit and said that the climate crisis was the new form of Marxism. Now, together with the Minister for the Environment, he is responsible for one of the most important things in the former Ministry of the Environment. So finally, even though it doesn't always work that way, I'm going to cheer our new minister. I hope she wins the fight for the attention of a Prime Minister who has so far not focused on climate and the environment. I hope she wins the fight against the Minister of Finance, who leads a party that has never been particularly concerned with the climate, to say it mildly. I hope she gets through every single day, because it needs the environment. Unfortunately, we fear that her own government has given her weakened opportunities to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e717	Let me thank the interpellant for traveling an important theme. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has again been concerned with the climate and the environment, having left that area to SV in the last eight years. There is very little we have heard from the Workers' Party in this Chamber about the questions that are being raised today, and it is very positive that the Workers' Party has now chosen a much more offensive line – at least in today's debate. Then it remains to be seen whether it is being followed up in practice. I have had the pleasure of negotiating a climate agreement with the Workers' Party earlier. In those negotiations, their attitude was not to say yes to new measures, but to say no to new measures. Let's hope it changes in the time that's coming. It is true that there have been some smoking of some responsibilities between departments. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has been appointed, inter alia: rainforest and quota purchases, which have significantly strengthened the department’s climate profile. But, as the Council of State was also concerned, it is not just one department that has to take care of the climate and the environment. There is something all the departments have to care for if this is to be a success and if we are to meet our national and international obligations. No matter which department manages which area, they do not disappear. The most important of these commitments is perhaps the Convention on Biological Diversity, which provides strong leadership, and which has contributed to the fact that we have one of the world's most stringent natural diversity laws. It shall apply irrespective of the department responsible for the planned work. I think it is positive that the government here follows up what they have said to do, that climate and environment are something that is going to draw a higher sky across the entire government's work, and not just what you're doing in one department, which may have characterized the previous government's way of dealing with these areas. Let me also say that it's not just the government that has to take care of this if we're to succeed. Local authorities also need to take on their responsibilities in order to ensure natural diversity and climate considerations. The representative of Aasland is engaged in snowmobile rides. I understand that because he's from a state where it's very popular. But the representative may hardly have read the regulations that accompany the experiment if he is concerned about nature and outdoors. It is a very strict regulation that the municipalities must deal with, which absolutely takes care of nature and outdoor life. Then there will always be balances in a modern society. The representative Aasland himself mentions power lines. I can add roads and railways – areas where you have to make demanding balances. The representative of Aasland knows that a little bit about it, because the previous government had to do it, for example. decide whether to build a new four-field E6 through a wetlands area in Hedmark. It spent the four years deciding to do. They also had to consider whether to build a mall outside Larvik, which they decided to do, or whether to allow a passive house project outside Bergen, even though collective access was not as good as it might have been – they decided to do so. So the representative of Aasland knows that there are demanding balances in a modern society. And of course, we in this room have to be drivers and make sure that the government follows up in such a way that we can meet our goals and obligations in this area. I have faith that the government will do that, especially after hearing the State Council's speech. She was very offensive. Then the Aukust representative was in favour of Lien's opinion on the Law on Natural Diversity. What the Council of State specifies is that within the law of natural diversity there is room for discretion. From time to time, it is necessary to use the space for action provided by the Law on Natural Diversity, for example: the construction of a power line, which in turn contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We know that climate and environment occasionally stand up against each other. These are difficult balances, but I am absolutely sure that the government will manage this in a good way, which places great emphasis on climate and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e736	It is important to bear in mind that the main actors in spatial planning under the Planning and Building Act are the municipalities and the various local authorities. From my own experience as head of the Oslo City Development Committee for many years, it is important what you have to do there, and I have to say it was rarely I knew the need for better coordination from the local level up against the statesmen and the Municipal Ministry. Of course, the people you relate to, they needed to be in touch with, were the Ministry of the Environment. So for me, it's hard to understand why this change has been made in moving the plan department to the Municipal and Modern Ministry. Then I will not interfere from the Stortinget with what the government itself chooses to do, but it is a special responsibility for the government to show that this change does not weaken the environmental work in planning in Norway. It is clear that the Planning and Building Act is one of the most important instruments we have both for good climate action and for the work on classical nature protection. In terms of climate, we're not just working according to the Planning and Building Act. It's also about having good coordination of the transport plans that we have, so that we can do a fortification in cities and agglomerations, which means that we reduce transport dependence as much as possible. Not only is this climate action to reduce emissions, but so important is the Planning and Building Act in order to achieve good climate adaptation, so that local authorities take seriously the climate change with more rainfall and other changes in the form of storms and other, and that we can get good local planning. Then, of course, it's also about the conservation of rare species. Much of it has to be done through the Nature Diversity Act, and much is also about having sufficient knowledge of what nature values actually exist. A considerable amount of work has to be done there. But that's the way it is, as the representative Nikolai Astrup also points out, that it still shows up with a lot of sense, and there are some evaluations in individual cases. The same will apply to the maintenance of important cultural landscapes, and here we are within a field where all representatives and parties agree on a general level. Of course, we should have an offensive climate policy. Of course, we need to preserve rare species and biodiversity. Of course, it is important to take care of important cultural landscapes. Of course, it is important to have a high level of soil protection and to maintain important agricultural areas. But then the differences between the different parties and the different interests come when the individual matters come to a final conclusion. And it is a fact – no matter how good overall planning and processes one has in terms of land-use planning – that in the most controversial issues, all the issues and interests come back to the end when a final decision is to be taken. Then it will be the government that will have to show at the sum of individual matters that the change that has now been made does not weaken neither cultural memory protection nor the wider environmental work over time. That's one side. The other side is that the government has to show that in the initiatives it takes to improve overall planning, which also has an impact on the planning and building law, environmental and climate work is the main starting point. In the left we disagree with the change that has been made, we wouldn't have initiated such a change ourselves and don't see what benefits it should bring. However, in spatial planning, it is the results that count, and it is up to the government through practical policies to show that there is climate, environment, biodiversity, cultural memory protection and the preservation of cultural landscapes that are the most important, even when the difficult balances are to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e754	Thank you to the interpellant Aasland for addressing a very important topic, which is already coming very early in the new government's employment growth, namely the transfer of the management of the Planning and Building Act to the Ministry of the Environment and Modernisation. This is no trifle. And it's important to remember what's the political backbone of this. For example, when current Prime Minister Solberg did not say very long ago: ‘We need food and we need to protect vulnerable species in nature, but housing must be put in front of protection when the lack of housing is as excruciating as it is today.’ It's also more similar statements. This is a kind of statement that is the very essence of the environmental problem. There are always considerations that are more important than environmental protection. There are always interests that are stronger than nature protection. It's economy, it's jobs, it's expansion interests, it's one thing about the other. And this is what the environmental struggle has always been about. Therefore, it is very important to note the political rug that has been pulled up before and through the election campaign, and which is thus expressed through this kind of action as the move of the law on the plan and the building, as the release of snowmobiles, as food expansion decisions that have already been made, etc. This isn't random, it's politics. There are two things that are crucial in modern environmental management and in modern Norwegian environmental management. One is that since the environment and nature are always the weakest party, there must be very active and offensive protection through strong legislation. Natural and environmental considerations must be taken and given priority in spite of other interests in some necessary contexts. This is absolutely fundamental, and it is the foundation of the environmental legislation and management that have been built up in Norway. The second crucial point is that this law must be managed by a government — by a sector — which is highly professional, with the capacity to do the ongoing administrative job, and which, above all, has strong political support in a Council of State and in a government giving priority to this type of work. Therefore, it is very far from random and very far from immaterial where a law is administered in central government. I'm not going to stand here and frame up examples of how strange it would be to move other types of legislation around between departments, but there's clearly a reason why the administration of the Planning and Building Act was originally put there: in the Ministry of the Environment. Because, as it's already been expressed by several, loss of land is the biggest natural problem we have here in the country. There is clearly a policy when the administration of this law is relocated, and there is clearly a link between the statements of a number of members of the government, which can be summed up with: now it is going to be easier to expand and to move the administration of this law. It is therefore also obvious that this move has made it more difficult for the Council of State Sundtoft to do the job she is assigned to do, in order to preserve Norwegian nature, to protect Norwegian species and, for example, to protect Norwegian species. in order to implement the extremely difficult commitment made by Norway to halt the loss of biodiversity in Norway by 2020. We had committed ourselves to doing so by 2010. We couldn't do that. That's why we committed ourselves to doing it by 2020. Governments other than Sundtofts have been responsible for this, but this has become a difficult starting point. The Green Party will support the Council of States to the best of its ability, but we have now had a brighter and more red light on the government's biodiversity and environmental protection policy than we wanted to start with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e783	First of all, I think what is interesting about the debate is that we agree. We agree that one of the most important things we have to take care of in retrospect is the consideration of nature, the environment and the opportunities that nature gives us. Then there is no doubt that we have a strong law, as Rasmus Hansson underlined. Not least, it has been reinforced in the last eight years. But that's the practice of it and the exercise of what's a bit of the discussion theme in this interpellation. Then there's a little bit of reason for a calming thought that this should go well, as long as everyone agrees as we are. But I will still warn against being too calm. Because, as the representative of Astrup said, there are demanding balances to be made. And it is true – if not always, so often at least – that nature and the environment have other interests that may seem more interesting to take care of from a short-term political perspective. And that's the challenge. And there's some of what this interpellation has in a way taken up, and that's a very important theme to focus on in the future. Then we have not said that we judge the government's internal structure north and down. We have just underlined that it is becoming more difficult for the Minister for Climate and Environment, given that she loses – as it were – the last word in important issues of nature and the environment. I'm not going to drag it anymore in this debate. I think this was a good introduction to this year, because I think we're going to get a lot of things of this character in the continuation. Then the overall perspective may be reduced more on individual matters, then complexity becomes more difficult, the balances more, but it is – not least – important to take care of it too. Finally, let me congratulate the Minister for Climate and Environment on the work she has in store for the quality of nature and the environment and ensure that it is brought to future generations in the best possible way. I hope that she wins the internal battles despite cross-cutting interests, and that nature and the environment can be raised high – unless we have new debates starting from this point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e799	I would like to thank you for the debate. It is an important debate and, as we are told, we agree that we need to focus on climate and the environment. I just want to say: the Ministry of Climate and Environment has no plans to become a mini-UD. There are too many important questions nationally. We also need to spend sufficient time in Norway on such challenges. Then there are questions about the natural diversity law and some have probably drawn some statements from the oil and energy minister well far. What we've said is that the law stands firm, but we want to look at the practice. There is a law that has now worked for four years, and there is reason to see whether it has worked properly and what challenges you have met with the practice. We will review the law to identify any need for regulatory clarification and training needs, because it is an important law. Again, let me just underline that, as before, plans and actions should be investigated in line with the Impact Assessment Regulation and the Nature Diversity Act. I think early acquisition and emphasising of knowledge gives environmental considerations authority, and much of the knowledge is already available, but the knowledge base is under constant development and improvement. It is important here that municipalities also strengthen their knowledge base in order to take the kind of balances they are about to make. Again: I am glad that it is underlined that you will judge the government as one government. This government emphasises good cooperation in-house, and the Ministry of Climate and Environment, together with the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, will make clearer demands on climate-friendly land management expectations. Thank you for a useful debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e814	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e820	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e923	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e933	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e974	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e984	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e1004	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-14.ana.ud1085e1068	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
