ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e77	Honourable co-representatives! Former employee representative of the Arbeiderpartiet Arvid Johanson is dead, 84 years old. With his death, we have lost a person with a lifelong commitment to his community, to his party and to the country. When Arvid Johanson first met at Stortinget in 1954, it was as 26-year-old – the youngest deposit representative since the Eidsvolls Assembly in 1814. It was the beginning of a 22 year service here in the house. Most of the time he was in the Finance Committee, but he was also the head of, or chairman of, the Industry Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. In 1980, Arvid Johanson was appointed Minister of Oil and Energy in Odvar Nordli's government – a job he also continued in Gro Harlem Brundtland's government. After the government change in October 1981, he returned to Halden to grab hold of the editorial board in Halden Arbeiderblad. He also engaged in other ways in the community and wrote several local history books. The Labour Party has many good memories from the time of an active Arvid Johanson, both at national meetings and in the storeroom. Another relationship that has been written into the history of the Workers' Party was when he, together with Odvar Nordli and Ragnar Christiansen, was referred to as the Silver Boys in the Workers' Party because they constantly raced to the pulpit of the Storting to take a line on bourgeois opponents. Otherwise, Arvid Johanson was for the EF and later said that the EC case was the most exciting experience during his year on the Stortinget. One of the major issues in his period as the Council of State was the construction of the Statpipe system, the Kårstø plant and the Gullfak development. The size gave a clear signal for these projects on 10 June 1981. Johanson later said that the extension decision was a milestone in Norwegian oil history, and the first major task Statoil had to throw itself in. The expansion of the Alta watercourse was also an important issue in Johanson's Council of State. The violent demonstrations against the development of Norwegian policy at the beginning of the 1980s. Johanson was aware that the development was correct both then and afterwards. He stated that the matter was finally a matter of principle, where the core question was whether a decision on a roll-call should be set aside for non-parliamentary pressure. We thank Arvid Johanson for a long working day in the service of society and bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e98	The representative of Nikolai Astrup shall apply for parental leave from 3 February to 14 March. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and granted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Frode Helgerud, is proposed to meet during the period of leave from 4 February to 6 March. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e113	The representative, Gina Knutson Barstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e116	On behalf of representatives Karin Andersen, Johnny Ingebrichtsen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to continue the important work in order for hospital employees to be offered a full job.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e121	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e137	In 2014, Norway chaired the Nordic defence cooperation NORDEFCO. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence has so clearly stated that she will further develop concrete and practical cooperation – a flexible, pragmatic and results-oriented cooperation that has become one of the most dynamic areas of cooperation in the Nordic region in a few years. The Norwegian Minister of Defence took over the presidency after Carl Haglund of Finland. Let me also take this opportunity to thank Finland, which contributed to a much stronger parliamentary anchoring of Nordic cooperation in the defence sector. Defence cooperation was one of the priority areas under the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council in 2013. We saw that it was not appropriate to establish a Council of Ministers for Defence Policy. In spite of that, the question is too sensitive. We therefore worked on a broader basis to give cooperation a parliamentary dimension and to contribute to further development and deepening cooperation. We had a memorial in April that was dedicated to defence policy. There, both defence and foreign ministers took part. And on 30 September, a round table was held in Helsinki between the Nordic Council and the Bureau of the Nordic Council. There was NORDEFCO represented with the incoming Minister of Defence – at least for so long – and the existing one, which was then the Finnish Minister of Defence. NORDEFCO presented where the challenges, problems and visions of defence cooperation and drew some conclusions. I also sat in the Nordic Council from 1997 to 2001. During that period, I experienced the very first presentation of defence and foreign policy in the history of the Nordic Council. It would be closer to ten years after the fall of the Berlin Wall before it could be put on the agenda during a session of the Nordic Council. During the Cold War, defence policy was taboo in political debates and talks between the Nordic countries and the governments of the Nordic countries. The end of the Cold War gave us every new opportunity and challenge in our foreign policy, in our neighbourhoods and with a growing defence cooperation. Today it is no coincidence that our first Round Table in the Nordic Council was about defence policy. Because, after many, many years on the Nordic agenda, defence policy is now among the most dynamic areas of cooperation between the Nordic countries. It is a cooperation that takes place within the framework of and with respect for the policy of alliances and foreign policy anchoring in each country. That's a prerequisite. Norway, Denmark and Iceland are members of NATO. Sweden, Finland and Denmark are members of the EU. Denmark is not participating in EU defence policy. However, Norway, which is not a member of the EU, does. This seems complicated, but this is also at the bottom of Nordic cooperation. Cooperation is informal, but objectively and results-oriented between the Nordic governments, Heads of Defence and Defence. Cooperation complements national defence solutions and cooperation within the EU and NATO. NORDEFCO is also of real interest in transatlantic and Euroatlantic cooperation. NORDEFCO has in fact become a positive trademark and an important forum for security policy dialogue. Some of the success of NORDEFCO is likely that there is no permanent structure. NORDEFCO is a meeting structure where Nordic countries meet regularly at several levels and where conclusions are followed up at national level. Of course, this has something to do with economics. NORDEFCO is also a response to NATO’s ‘Smart Defence’ or the EU’s ‘Pooling and Sharing’, if you like. NORDEFCO has ambitions to improve both operational efficiency and cost-effectiveness. But the Nordics also represent values that we have to defend. Increasing Nordic cooperation on defence and security policy must also be based on our common values. Among other things, both in international forums and in various operations, we will emphasise Security Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. We are united in emphasising the importance of the UN for an international legal order, and perhaps in the years to come – after Afghanistan – we can work together in concrete UN operations. It is important that both NATO countries and NATO partner countries, as Sweden and Finland are, set up with the special capabilities of the United Nations on the military side. Examples include engineers, communications and modern field hospitals – important infrastructure in all the operations we have seen in the Balkans, in Afghanistan and in Chad. In order to operate together, we have to train together, and we have to have capacities that work together. At the Helsinki Round Table, the Finnish Defence Chief said that Nordic defence cooperation – including joint Nordic exercises – is essential both for the joint defence of our neighbourhoods in a given situation – i.e. our territory – and for working together, whether in UN operations, in EU missions or in NATO-led operations. However, in addition to cooperation in operations and security policies, Nordic countries also have capacity development. That is, materials, logistics, education and training. Some of this is currently demanding. Maybe we can come back to that later today. Let me stress that Norway’s security policy anchoring is firm, because that is not what this is about. NATO is the cornerstone of our defence policy, and Article 5 will always have to go ahead in a given situation. Nordic defence cooperation is an important complement to our cooperation in the alliance. Both NATO and the EU have flexible cooperation with partners and with non-members. It also allows for Nordic cooperation within and across the two organisations, both military and political. Sweden and Finland are well among the most integrated partnership countries in NATO. Norway has participated in EU operations, including: in a Nordic force under the EU Battle Groups. We are also active members of the European Defence Agency, and we are working in NATO to involve Sweden and Finland more closely in NATO's planning and decision-making processes. On 5 April 2011, the five Nordic Foreign Ministers agreed on a declaration of solidarity. The then Norwegian Foreign Minister, Jonas Gahr Støre, called the declaration a building block in Nordic cooperation. The declaration states that it is natural for the Nordic countries to cooperate in a spirit of solidarity to meet challenges in the field of foreign and security policy. It was two years after NORDEFCO was established and, of course, a follow-up to the Stoltenberg report which, under the direction of Thorvald Stoltenberg, presented concrete proposals for cooperation in the Nordic region in these areas. We're going to be proud that we're going to lead Nordic defence cooperation this year. That gives us great opportunities. I noticed that the Minister of Defence on 1 January said that she was among others. would like to emphasise the strengthening of the security policy dialogue, the strengthening of participation in international operations, further progress in practice and training and improved industrial dialogue and material cooperation which, as I said, is currently arduous and perhaps will be further elaborated by the Council of State. I also hope that the Council of State today will elaborate on all of these points. What are the ambitions of the Nordic Defence Minister? During the Cold War, defence policy was taboo. In 1993 came the Barents and the Church Declaration. That's what Thorvald Stoltenberg is really known for: the brave initiative he took when he gathered the foreign ministers in the Nordic countries and Russia. So this was four years after the first East Germans hit their way through the hated Berlin wall. Today we may have forgotten that there were two Germanys, that there were no free Baltic states, and that the border at Grense-Jakobsev was an iron barrier between NATO and the Warsaw Pact. It's not like that today. We can work together on foreign and security policy, and I'm excited about how the Council of States will further develop cooperation in NORDEFCO.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e177	First, I would like to extend a warm thanks to the representative Nybakk for travelling an interpellation theme that we both have a mutual interest in discussing more, and in which we have engaged from different positions over a long period of time. We both attended this meeting the representative Nybakk mentioned, under the direction of the Nordic Council, and I experienced, as many others, that it was among the more fruitful discussions that had been within the framework of the Nordic Council for a very long time. It was both long and covered very many areas. The Government Platform suggests that Norway’s security is being built together with others. NATO membership and transatlantic relations remain the foundation of Norwegian defence and security policy. It is, as the representative pointed out, a broad consensus among the Nordic countries that Nordic defence cooperation is not an alternative to NATO and the EU, but an important complement. The representative Nybakk even explained the somewhat unbridled conglomerate of various alliances between NATO, the EU, Nordic countries and other alliances. In my view, there are in particular two aspects that make Nordic defence cooperation a success story, alongside the absolutely necessary security policy clarifications that have come in recent years since there was some uncertainty for a period. It is that cooperation is primarily practical. It comes out of concrete needs in the different Nordic countries. The second is to identify areas that give Nordic added value. Based on the community of values, the geographical proximity and the linguistic community we have, we find added value and cooperation in the Nordic region. Nordic cooperation has long traditions, including in the field of defence and security policy. For decades, our defence cooperation has involved everything from participation in UN operations around the world through NATO cooperation in the Balkans and in Afghanistan to more domestic activity related to dialogue, training, training and material and capacity cooperation. This cooperation has helped to enable Sweden and Finland to practice and operate with NATO today and to be key partners for NATO. Norway has worked actively to facilitate this development, and we want to continue this. The Government emphasises active and comprehensive international cooperation that contributes to peace and stability. Developments in our own region are moving towards closer defence and security cooperation. There is today a close link between cooperation within the Nordic, Nordic-Baltic and Northern Group. The latter is informal cooperation which, in addition to the Nordic and Baltic countries, includes Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Poland. In this way, several of our close allies are involved in important issues that address the Nordic countries and our neighbourhoods. It's in Norwegian interest. Today, Norway and Denmark support the UN and OPCW with the transport of chemical fighting agents from Syria. Together with, among others: Sweden and Finland are now providing transport support in the context of the acute crisis in South Sudan. So we're bringing security materials to the United Nations camps, where over 75 000 people have sought refuge. In Afghanistan, we work together in a Nordic-Baltic framework to advise Afghan police in the Transition Support Unit. In February Norway will be responsible for airspace control over Iceland on behalf of NATO. At the same time, Sweden and Finland will be present to train and practice with their fighter planes. In March, the major exercise Cold Response is conducted in Troms, involving 16 NATO and partner countries with wide Nordic participation. Long-term Nordic Capability Cooperation on, inter alia, research and development, education, acquisition, operation, maintenance and upgrading of materials are in positive development. The cooperation on Nordic transport aircraft is an example of this. It includes the sharing and coordinated use of available flight hours, support and maintenance. Together, we'll be able to get more power out of the available capacity in a cheaper way. For example, Norway and Denmark have negotiated a maintenance inspection contract for our transport aircraft, which provides a saving of 30 pst. Air surveillance cooperation is also promising. The potential for closer cooperation in operational activities, the production of strengths and the acquisition of new sensors is now under consideration. The potential is based on the assumptions of Norwegian and Danish NATO membership. Maritime monitoring is an area in which a regional Nordic-Baltic initiative has formed the starting point for European and potentially even wider cooperation. An important area is also cooperation between defence-related research communities. This is also how savings and better use of technology, competence and material can be achieved. We also have examples of Nordic defence cooperation that are less visible, but all the more important. They have a good effect and until last year did sanitary training of ‘medicinal’s in the special forces of the United States. So the Nordic countries came together that the special force communities possessed great competence in this and could cooperate on this education. Each country contributes with modules where they have the most competence. Next month, the first coal is graduated from specialty medicine on the Sessvollmoen. They operate together, and it also gives the opportunity to further develop this cooperation. Let me stress that it was just when this collaboration came under the NORDEFCO umbrella that it really shot speed. It is a recognition of the work done. At the beginning of this year, NORDEFCO has designed a vision for work. My Nordic colleagues and I signed it just before Christmas. The vision gives the direction for cooperation in the next few years. It extends to 2020 and, in my view, is both realistic and forward-looking. This year, as Norway has chaired the NORDEFCO, I would like first of all to emphasise and further develop concrete and practical cooperation. Priority must be given to projects and activities with the greatest potential for success. In line with this, I will further develop cooperation with third countries where this also strengthens Nordic defence cooperation, adds value and brings mutual benefits. I have also presented seven main areas of activity to my Nordic colleagues, as the representative Nybakk mentioned, which I would like to highlight the Nordic cooperation in 2014. We want to strengthen security policy dialogue by further developing NORDEFCO as a forum for targeted dialogue on issues affecting Nordic countries. We also want to use our regional cooperation as a platform to engage important countries and international organisations in such a dialogue. The Nordic countries’ various links with NATO and the EU are a strength for meaningful and relevant security policy dialogue. The interest in regional cooperation, perhaps especially in the Nordic countries of NATO, is growing. We also want to strengthen Nordic coordination in advance of contributions to international operations to look for possible Nordic solutions. Our ability to make effective and joint strength contributions can be improved through the use of Nordic departments on international alert. We will further develop common solutions for training, deployment, logistics and redeployment in international operations. We want to contribute to further progress in training and training cooperation in our neighbourhoods. I'm busy including several allied nations in training activity in the Nordic region. Further expansion of the exercise and training area across national borders may be relevant, and we will now look into this. We already have an important cooperation with our fighter aircraft, Cross Border Training. This is a cooperation that works so well that there is also discussion about extending it to other regions of the Nordic region, and that several allies can participate in this cooperation at times. We also want to develop the ability of the Nordic countries to build capacity and support security sector reform. We achieve even better efficiency by coordinating deliveries to NATO, the UN and the EU, and by inviting other countries to contribute. Capacity building is on the agenda for the NATO Summit in 2014 and NATO partner countries can make a substantial contribution in this area. We want to streamline capacity and material cooperation by contributing to early clarifications and prioritisation of efforts towards the most promising processes. Similarly, we will contribute to the completion of cooperation that shows lack of progress or results. In line with the government’s view of public–private cooperation, I want to revitalise cooperation through the exchange of experience and best practices, but also with a view to identifying possible common projects. Last but not least, in this range of important areas, the defence industry is a key partner in the capacity development. We therefore want to work for the best possible dialogue with the Nordic defence industry. It is important to ensure the delivery of justice material at the right price to the defence of the country and to maintain a competitive defence industry. This is an area that the representative Nybakk will recognise is characterised by strong international competition. These plans are ambitious, and I'm not going to be the one who claims it's going to be easy, or that everything is possible to realize during the year we now have ahead of us. This, however, signals a direction for cooperation that I believe is important. I am convinced that the flexible structure of NORDEFCO and the constructive and performance-oriented attitudes of our countries will contribute to progress in these areas. Nordic defence cooperation is a high priority. Being honest about the slightly difficult issues and, at the same time, continuing to cooperate where it works well is important. It illustrates maturity in our relationships, and it gives greater credibility when we talk about all the areas that succeed well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e215	Let me first thank the Council of State for a full and concrete answer. I am pleased that she is aware that she will further develop concrete and practical cooperation, because that is what NORDEFCO is about. She also stresses the importance of this NORDEFCO umbrella, on which I will support her. She also mentioned this cooperation between Norway and Denmark as regards the transport of chemical weapons out of Syria. I can bring a greeting from a Nordic party meeting on Monday, where the Danes were very concerned about that very cooperation with Norway, and were pleased with the Norwegian frigate. So a couple of questions -- and maybe some issues. We have the Stoltenberg report lying down. Something has been done, other things are there, and something is perhaps difficult. But will the Council of State and the Government pick up the Stoltenberg report and ensure the effectiveness of that particular report? So it is that we have done a lot of good – this underlined the Council of State – and have succeeded in both education, transport capacity and cooperation on strength. The Council of State now mentioned this with sanitary education, which is quite interesting – that it has let itself be done under the Nordic umbrella. So we might need to get into other areas, but it's probably going to work. What I, at least from the media review, experience as difficult now, is perhaps this about material development. This is primarily about the relationship between Norway and Sweden, and I want to ask the Council of State to elaborate on how she is experiencing that situation right now. A concrete proposal in the Stoltenberg report was the Nordic cooperation on air surveillance over Iceland. The Americans pulled out of the Keflavik base at very short notice, and left behind an empty space – I had almost said literally an empty space. We have now received air surveillance, a NATO mission under the direction of Norway, which also participates in Sweden and Finland, after the then Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide signed the agreement on air surveillance with his colleagues during the Nordic Council's session in Helsinki in October 2012. They have a slightly different form of so-called "surveillance", but they're in. They're there, and it's important. I would like to ask whether the Council of State will ensure that this mission is continued. In connection with what she spoke about the Northern Group, which I also think is quite interesting, the Council of State might imagine that, for example. the Baltic countries may at any time come under the NORDEFCO umbrella?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e232	I'll try to get the answer to all the questions. If not, I'll get back to it in the last three-minute post. That's good questions. The Stoltenberg report has been something that changing governments have worked for. I believe that the biggest obstacle in the Stoltenberg report for a period was the declaration of solidarity and its content, and that it created some uncertainty as to what Nordic defence cooperation should be, related to the primary security policy links of the countries. Now that it is cleared of the road, I also feel that the progress in the practical areas is actually larger and stronger than it was in a period of time. There are also some areas that are foreign, such as: common foreign stations, etc., where I know that there has been some inertia in cooperation, but there are at least some possibilities explored by the different countries. So we want to implement the areas where we see it as natural, and where it serves Norwegian interests, of course in a dialogue with the Stortinget. So for the air surveillance in Iceland. There's a rotational arrangement, where we have the management now this six months, and there's going to be a rotation also later. It is, in my opinion, a very good example of how to connect a little bit of different security issues, while practicing and training together. The Swedes and Finns will also contribute with aeroplanes that practice and train. We're handling the Air Policeing part. It is a clear agreement that works well for all countries. So to the Northern Group and to include the Baltic countries in Nordic cooperation. You can talk a lot about Nordic-Baltic defence cooperation. Some would point out that the Baltic countries have slightly different experiences with some of our neighbours than we do, and others would point out that it is well possible to have these practical approaches that we already have in the Nordic framework, including with the Baltic countries. I think the important thing is that in that case you make sure to identify projects where it is natural, but I think you also have to believe that NORDEFCO is an organisation and an association that in very short time and short notice can solve some major challenges politically, and it is easy to do within the Nordic framework. Now there was little time for the last question. I would like to get back to it in the last answer, but I just want to mention that I am experiencing a Norwegian-Swedish material cooperation as well. We have over 70 cooperation projects with Sweden. We buy three times as much defense equipment from Sweden as they buy from us. We have very close cooperation in important areas. In just a short time, in the middle of February, the first CV90 is rolling out of the factory in Örnsköldsvik. It is the greatest acquisition in the history of the Army. We buy it from the Swedish industry. Everything goes according to plan, we're very pleased with the deliveries so far, and it's a project of a value of 6 billion. Norwegian Krone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e243	Thank you to the inter-pellant, who through this debate focuses on Nordic defence cooperation. As both interpellant and state councils have been involved so far in the debate, the goal of Nordic defence cooperation is to give a stronger operational effect for each defence crown we use to solve the defence tasks, and then in recognizing that modern defence technology is expensive – a recognition that was also well anchored in the Stoltenberg 2009 report on, among other things. Nordic defence cooperation. In the years following 2009, we have also been confirmed that cooperation across borders that also includes the defence is not only important but necessary. As the interpellant was involved in his statement, the term ‘Smart Defence’ in this statement is a good description of why Nordic defence cooperation must and should be further developed. When NORDEFCO was established, it may have been a Nordic response to ‘Smart Defence’, and then through cooperation to realise operational and economic impacts. I would also like to be clear, like Mr Nybakk, that we attach great importance to Nordic defence cooperation, but then as an important complement to our NATO membership. During the Committee's visit to the United States last week, Nordic defence cooperation was also welcomed. Of course, the fact that the Council of State in its statement confirms this is no surprise. It only underlines the cross-political consensus on our defence policy in our national Parliament. The world does not lack crises, and in this context it is enough to mention Syria and South Sudan. The world stands powerless and sees that millions of people are fleeing, and that the civilian population suffers insane loss. During the Committee's visit to the United States last week, the UN's need for peacekeeping forces became a topic. It surprised me when we learned that the share of NATO countries in the UN peacekeeping forces today is well 2 pst. of the total forces available to the United Nations. With such a hindrance, I believe that there may be good reason to build on the good cooperation – operations we have had in northern Afghanistan, and now have in the Mediterranean – between the Nordic countries. It should also be able to provide a good basis for assessing contributions in a Nordic framework to several UN operations, and I am pleased with the Council's opinions that this is a high priority. Capability development cooperation is a very important part of our Nordic cooperation. On Tuesday, I was visiting Nammo at Raufoss. Getting an insight into Nammo's products was both exciting and instructive. Nammo is an enterprise with a global market, but also an enterprise that has production in many countries, including the Nordic countries. They were clear that Nordic cooperation within the industry they represent is very important for both them and the cooperating companies across borders. To use the term ‘Smart Defence’ once again, it is this kind of cooperation that gives content to make defence capabilities smarter. It is not least about cooperation between enterprises, but also that cooperation between research institutions in the defence sector is good and increasing in many disciplines. It will, in our view, contribute to the creation of space for action and to the premise for subsequent cooperation on the choice of technological solutions and the acquisition of material. If we take stock of the situation today, we know that cooperation so far has produced good results, and several new opportunities are under investigation, as both the inter-pellant and the Council of State were involved in their contributions. But is everything just joy and vulture? Maybe a provocative question, but it's based on an article we could read in the Evening Post on December 19th last year. It said that defence cooperation between Norway and Sweden is cracking. And the other day, the Evening Post focused on Norway and Sweden buying between 1,000 and 2,000 special-purpose trucks and developing new super-cannons together. The article on 19 December last year states that Norway has scrapped the cannons and that the Swedes have suspended the truck contract. Then there is a claim that Swedish-Norwegian cooperation on joint defence procurement and the development of new material is in the process of scanning, which I neither hope nor believe, but I will – in the light of the article in the evening post – ask the Council of State for two things. The interpellant asked the same question, but I still ask: Does the Council of State agree with the statements made by the Evening Post that there are cracks in the Norwegian-Swedish cooperation on the material side? And: Although it would have been good that our M109 can meet Army's needs for artillery for a few years, what will the Council and the Department do to ensure the defense of artillery capacity, when Norway has withdrawn from Archer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e266	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic and also thank the Minister of Defence for his good considerations and answers. Nordic countries and societies are very similar in many areas. We share the same values, but also the many security and defence policy interests and challenges. At the same time, we operate with some different events on the security policy side. After calling the war with its polarization, it restricted some of the Nordic countries' freedom of action and cooperation in foreign and defence policy, we can now rejoice that this is a policy area which is not so difficult to approach as it was in the past. But it is an important fact that, on the part of Norway, it is taking place within the framework of Atlantic defence cooperation through NATO – in other words, Nordic cooperation will be primarily technical and economic. I am glad that there is no doubt in the majority of the United States that NATO is the cornerstone of our defence and security policy. Through exercises and – if necessary – fighting, our soldiers, together with the soldiers of our NATO partners, contribute to peace and security, both in our neighbourhoods and where our common-vital interests may be exposed. Finland and Sweden participate in the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council and in the Partnership for Peace as well as in NATO-led peace-building operations. Similarly, Norway is one of the countries outside the EU that has tested close cooperation with the EU in the fields of defence and security policy. To date, we have contributed to six civilian and three military crisis management operations, and we are making Norwegian contributions to the EU battle groups and have concluded a cooperation agreement with the EU Defence Agency. As has been said, today's system within NORDEFCO is in good development. It is a matter of practical and pragmatic cooperation based on identified needs in the defence organisations of the countries. In addition, Nordic cooperation as a driving force for Sweden’s and Finland’s approach to NATO provides a positive added value for all of us in the Nordic region. Nordic cooperation has received increasing attention outside the Nordic region and has become a model for modern regional cooperation. Since the establishment of NORDEFCO, we can also integrate the defence and security dialogue into Nordic cooperation. NORDEFCO has been an important forum for targeted dialogue on developments affecting Nordic countries. While addressing the need for security policy challenges in the context of NATO, there will also clearly be benefits from regional cooperation in the Nordic region. A major conflict in the Nordic region will necessarily affect all Nordic countries, and a joint coordinated effort will be a strength. This should not, of course, be confused with an alternative security guarantee. The Nordic countries, in their view, have no independent capacity to guarantee their own security. In everyday life, however, local cooperation with neighbouring countries will be possible. The same applies to patrol and surveillance tasks. Cooperation may also be relevant in the field of strength production functions, such as education, material maintenance, material investment and practice. We therefore, of course, support the defence minister's ambition to further develop Nordic defence cooperation within the framework of NATO and the EU. The right is pleased that the government, at the Minister of Defence, has a close dialogue with the respective partners in the Nordic region. Last year, the Swedish Alliance government reduced the Defence Committee, which is to carry out a security policy analysis. It shall assess the defence and security implications in Sweden’s neighbourhood and globally underpin the next long-term defence policy decisions in Sweden in 2015. For Norway too, it is exciting to see the outcome of this analysis. Trends in all four Nordic countries are increasing the importance of the Arctic and the North. For this reason, the defence must have a central place in the north basin in our countries. So from the Right, we welcome the fact that pragmatic and practical cooperation in the defence sector in the Nordic region has developed in a positive direction, and believe that there is still a potential to go further. My impression is that this cooperation is going well, because it is springing from a common need in all countries, but from the Right we are once again clarifying that it must happen in a way that is more powerful than weakens our NATO connection. Cooperation constitutes a valuable grant, not an alternative to Norway’s existing security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e287	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for creating a debate on an area which has increased in recent years. The Council of State has already outlined the status of Nordic defence cooperation and how the government plans to use the Norwegian Presidency of NORDEFCO to find new areas of cooperation for Nordic cooperation. I therefore want to broaden the understanding of Nordic defence cooperation. Cooperation is not a consequence of our common geographic proximity, our linguistic relationship or historical parallels. Cooperation is a result of the common values on which our societies are based, which the interpellant was also within, however from a somewhat different perspective. Despite different historical experiences and different positions, our countries are based on democracy, equality between people, individual freedom and independence and the principles of the rule of law. This is our common advantage and something that more and more nations are struggling to maintain. Just because we in the Nordic region have learned to resolve disagreements through conversations, dialogue and negotiations, we have had the opportunity to build robust societies. That being said, it would be naive to believe that cooperation in the Nordic region can somehow replace the transatlantic defence dimension. It is only when NATO collectively provides as a peace guarantee that Norway can operate Nordic defence cooperation. That this is the case is duly mentioned in the Government Declaration, where it states: ‘The government will give priority to the transatlantic relationship in the security and defence policy. Norwegian involvement in and contribution to NATO shall be strengthened and NATO activity and presence in Norway shall be facilitated’. The statement goes on to say: ‘The Government will strengthen bi- and multilateral cooperation with central allies in the neighbourhoods and take a leading role in the development of closer cooperation and integration in the region.’ Most relevant in this context is that we will further develop Nordic defence and security cooperation, especially in relation to practical strength production. This cooperation shall be developed within the framework of the NATO Partnership for Peace and NORDEFCO as a complement to the anchoring of countries in NATO and the EU. In this context, it follows as a matter of course that if you want to give priority to something, you must – everything else equally – give priority to something else down, and perhaps everyone in this room should notice it, also in other areas. However, military cooperation in the Nordic region has long traditions both materially and operationally, not least international operations. The Minister of Defence has pointed to a number of areas where cooperation is natural. Not least these acquisitions and improved resource utilisation of defence equipment. Everything obviously does not need to be acquired nationally, and sometimes it may be useful and economical to see material acquisitions in a larger perspective. Such a possible scenario could be, without me knowing details about this, that the other Nordic countries can make use of materials that the United States has stored in Norway and that the country no longer needs. Nordic defence cooperation is more than fine words and great intentions. It is positive and should be further developed. However, this presupposes that our foremost defence and security cooperation is anchored in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e312	As the interpellant rightly points out, defence policy is an increasingly topical area of Nordic cooperation. Discussions go along several lines, including how to cooperate in the field of defence on civil crisis management. The Christian People's Party welcomes a closer Nordic cooperation at many levels, including in the field of defence. Cooperation should, of course, take place in accordance with the principles of alliance and foreign policy of the various countries. Because it is important to stress that although it will be virtually impossible for a Nordic country to sit still and watch that Nordic neighbours come into a difficult situation, no military guarantee can be issued. For a NATO country such as Norway, the declaration of solidarity may not replace Article 5. We cannot and shall not challenge the limits of Article 5. And there can't and shall not be any uncertainty about whether Norway will be a credible alliance partner in NATO. It's important to establish this. Yet, despite different alliances, we want to strengthen Nordic defence cooperation – where it is right and appropriate. The Nordic Declaration of Solidarity is an important building block in Nordic cooperation. The declaration is important as a complement to the cooperation undertaken in the framework of NATO and the EU. I have noticed the statements made to the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Carl Bildt, in Riksdag on 13 February last year. He then stated that Sweden would not be passive if a disaster or attack were to hit a member country or a Nordic country. For example, Bildt said:\t\t You can change «We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We shall be able to provide and receive support, both civil and military." So the Swedes clearly state that they want to go beyond what the current declaration of solidarity states. From the Norwegian side, cooperation must, as I said, be based on the alliances that exist, but at the same time it is important that Norway contributes. That's why I'm worried when I see headlines in Swedish media about NORDEFCO, such as. on the website of Swedish TV 14 January. It concerns the Norwegian contribution within the NORDEFCO cooperation. The Swedish media show that Norway has decided to call home its officers from the Swedish Defence Headquarters, which according to the Swedish authorities may interfere with the Swedish government's plans for deeper NATO cooperation. The Swedish government's line is to cooperate more with the other Nordic countries, but now it is claimed in Swedish media that Norway's operations show a lack of will on the Norwegian side. The Swedish Minister of Defence, Karin Enström, suggests to Swedish television that Norway speaks with two tongues that Nordic cooperation is valued in words, but NATO is given priority in action. Defence spokesperson in the People's Party, Allan Widman, claims to have approached the end of the road with regard to Norway and Nordic cooperation. I hope the Council of State can reassure our Swedish friends on this, and I would like the Council of State to comment on the claims made here. It must not be a feeling that we are not giving priority to Nordic cooperation with non-NATO countries, as the People's Party's defence spokesperson claims in Swedish media. The Nordic Council has been increasingly concerned with defence policy issues. It is therefore a clear desire among Nordic parliamentarians to strengthen cooperation on social security, crisis and preparedness and – I would like to add – to strengthen Nordic cooperation on digital security. It is therefore important that work is given a clear parliamentary dimension and a anchor in the elected assemblies. That is why the debate here today is important, and I hope the Council of State will also look at what is happening within the framework of the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e334	First, I want to thank the interpellant for putting an important theme on the agenda. Nordic cooperation is important for Norway in many areas. The Nordic welfare model and common values mean that we have many common goals for the development of our societies. Fortunately, defence and security policies are also included in this cooperation in recent years. That's what the Center Party is pleased about, and it wants us to further develop within the framework of our NATO membership. That's why we're also pleased with this opportunity to get the government's ambitions in this area ready. NORDEFCO must be important both in word and action. The STOLTenberg report on Nordic cooperation on foreign and security measures of February 2009 presented several concrete proposals to strengthen Nordic cooperation on foreign and defence policy. The purchase, maintenance and upgrading of materials is a major expenditure item in all countries’ defence budgets. Only this attracts Nordic cooperation. All in 1994 the Nordic countries signed an agreement on cooperation in the development and purchase of military materials to foster defence-industrial cooperation in the Nordic region. Through the Nordic Armaments Cooperation, NORDAC, the Nordic countries have, among other things, cooperated on the purchase of helicopters, storm armored carriages, artillery location radars and armoured wheel-walking personnel. However, there is also the potential for much more extensive cooperation. On the military side, the potential is high, because Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden use similar materials. For example, everyone uses different models of the German war chariot Leopard 2, the Swedish combat vehicle CV90, as the Minister of Defence, and the armoured Finnish personnel vehicle Sisu Pasi. Closer cooperation to maintain and upgrade this material will provide economies of scale for all. The same applies to the purchase of new materials, since the Nordic countries together will be more closely involved in negotiations with producers. After spending 550 million. On the development of the Swedish Artillery Sept. Archer, the Ministry of Defence announced the termination of the project in December. The contract concluded in 2007 involved the development and delivery of 24 mobile artillery cannons to replace the M109 system that has been in use in the Army since 1969 – a total value of over 2 billion. kr. The defense has had both hands on the steering wheel throughout the whole process, and in Meld. St. 50 for 2012–2013, Nordic cooperation, special attention has been paid to the follow-up of broad political consensus through practical measures. Then I wonder: At what time was the termination sign decided, and on what basis was the sign decided? Resources are already used for this project. It might also be interesting for the Storting to right the cost frame of what's already been used. One can read that the head of the Artillery Regiment in Boden says that the message came as a surprise, and Sweden's defence minister, Karin Enström, regrets the message from Norway. It's going to affect our cooperation, she said. What does this say about the dialogue between Norwegian and Swedish government powers, which should initially be close partners? The representative of the Christian People's Party took up another dimension in Norwegian-Swedish cooperation, which it is interesting to see right-wing Minister of Defence. Norway and Sweden are not in the same defence alliance. Norway's cooperation within NATO will always be the cooperation that will govern Norway's defence capabilities. However, working more closely within the framework of NATO, and different countries' association with the EU's defence cooperation and other cooperation seem to me to strengthen Norway's defence capabilities and its strategic opportunities to further develop – fortunately, we hope – a peaceful and good coexistence in both the Nordics and Europe and global cooperation. I hope the Minister of Defense can clarify what happened through the termination of the Archer artillery icon september, which we believe is important for the cooperation with our Swedish friends, and therefore also for the development of Nordic cooperation in this important area further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e353	In a few days’ time, Norway will be responsible for the flight readiness in the airspace across Iceland, where we will be handling NATO’s standby operations and at the same time rehearsing Swedish and Finnish fighter aircraft. I also believe that other countries participate with less capacity. Norway will then have fighter aircraft on so-called QRA, as it is called in the tribal language – Quick Reaction Alert – as we have had in the past. Many have referred to the Stoltenberg report in the debate today. It contained 13 concrete proposals. One of them was just a proposal for Nordic cooperation on air surveillance over Iceland. The Stoltenberg report contained many good suggestions. But of those involved in defence cooperation, I think we have to be able to say that the really important proposals are those that deal with what is involved in concrete and practical defence cooperation. It's only when we really get some swing over our defence cooperation. And in my opinion, we need to have more common material cooperation. It's only when you have common systems and common equipment that you can really get training with other countries. I don't think we have a choice. The Minister of Defence is well aware that acquisitions of defence equipment are becoming more expensive and expensive, systems are more complex than before, while living in a world where defence budgets are still under pressure. Therefore, it was a pity that last year Norway withdrew from cooperation with Sweden and Finland on the next generation of field artillery, the so-called Archer, which was also involved in previous speeches. The reason was that Bofors had not delivered as intended and failed to meet the requirements that had been set. It is quite right that the project was delayed, and we might say that it is the Swedes who have the biggest problems. In reality, the Swedes don't have much operational artillery today, but after all, we still have our M109, which we hope we can keep spending a few more years. On the same day that the government made its decision, I got worried telephones from members of the Swedish parliament. Of some, it was perceived that Norway with that decision is not really so interested in Nordic defence cooperation anyway. I stress that this is not my opinion – I am passing on some of the concerns I received from Members of Parliament in Sweden from different parties. Of course, I am not going to criticize the current Minister of Defence for the problems that have occurred in the joint artillery project. After all, the decision I mentioned was taken by the Minister of Defence as a relatively fresh Minister of Defence. However, the Minister of Defence must have assessed the political consequences of Norway withdrawing from the important military cooperation project with Sweden. We have to be able to say that within the system – now I use the term, not to be more specific – there has been considerable scepticism, not to say resistance, to the artillery project and other joint projects. I hope that's not what convinced the Minister of Defense that we should withdraw from the artillery project. As a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I often get questions from colleagues from other NATO countries about what Nordic defence cooperation is all about. Me and others with me in this room sitting there, state that this does not in any way affect Norway's NATO membership. It is a complement to transatlantic defence cooperation. We have to recognise that NATO cooperation today – 28 member countries, perhaps even more – is a different cooperation from that of 12 member countries. More and more countries join, and I have argued and can claim again that Norway will have closer defence cooperation with Sweden and Finland in the future than with Bulgaria and Albania, although the last two are NATO members and the first two are unlikely to be so. Finally, I would just like to stress that the Thorvald Stoltenberg report and the proposals that were put forward are about strengthening Nordic cooperation on foreign and security policy and not just defence cooperation, which has been the subject here today. I hope that the new Minister of Defence and the new government are equally concerned about continuing the ideas that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e373	I must first thank you for a very good debate. Everyone is concerned with the dynamics of Nordic defence cooperation, but also with the practical day-to-day cooperation between the armed forces in the Nordic countries. It was Halleraker who said something like Nordic cooperation is the model of modern regional cooperation, and defence policy is increasingly part of this. Tybring-Gjedde added that Nordic cooperation has helped build robust societies, a community of values that is also the basis for defence cooperation. And I think the conclusions of Sverre Myrli were very interesting considering the future of this collaboration. Again, this cooperation is dynamic because it is practical, and because it does not have a Council of Ministers — it is a simple claim, many say. But I think the agreement from December 4 to cooperate on transport aircraft again is such an example. One manages to come up with very good and concrete cooperation solutions. Cooperation can, of course, increase the operational impact at a better price that countries can offer to each other – air transport services, airlifts, cost sharing for transport, participation in NATO cooperation, UN operations, etc., on which we have been involved. Both Andersen Eide and Navarsete took up Archer and this with words and actions in cooperation, especially between Norway and Sweden. I believe the Council of State said that there are 70 cooperation projects between Sweden and Norway today. Maybe we should also look at what's happening, given that the Archer project was difficult, and that there are other cooperation projects. But the main challenge is to create effective defence solutions based on a common understanding of the situation and the ability to coordinate and deliver capacities both at home and abroad. It requires flexibility, realism, prejudice and a long-term perspective, and it requires trust. Visionary work should lead to even more concrete actions, such as: possible joint defence planning? That's a little provocative question. But I think it's a long way to go in that case. Meanwhile, both defence cooperation and growing foreign cooperation continue, also because we share fundamental common values we must defend. And who knows, despite what Sverre Myrli said: maybe Nordic defence cooperation will once become regional cooperation within NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e388	Thank you for a very good debate. I agree with everything that has been said, both on the importance of NORDEFCO, on Nordic defence cooperation, on the importance of NATO as the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy, and on the assessments made on regional cooperation. I don't get time to go into it now, so I'll go straight to the questions related to Archer. The representative of Navarsete asked when the decision was taken, and on what basis, and says this is surprising. In particular, it cannot be surprising, because the government in which Navarsete herself put in, thus, promoted in two successive budget proposals to Stortinget concerns about delays and quality deviations of the Archer system. The latest in the 2014 proposal is as follows: ‘On this basis, the project is reviewed by the Norwegian side. During the current harvest session, the government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner on this matter.» So it was the previous government that wrote. I presented this matter to the Enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on 5 December. I'm not going to repeat what was referred to there, here, but felt full agreement to the decision that the government saw had to make. It wasn't a simple decision. It is a decision we would like not to have had to make, but because it was not possible to deliver what we had ordered, within the time available, it was, after a clear advice, what we had to do. So to the question that Kåre Simensen is asking, if the Norwegian-Swedish cooperation is about to crack. No, I don't experience it in any way. On the contrary, I feel that in 70 different areas we have close cooperation, both in materials, in practice, in training and in other areas. Many of them are involved in material cooperation. We have the case that Kåre Simensen himself mentioned, about these trucks. The signing of the agreement is now suspended because the Swedish Competition Agency looks at this after one of the potential suppliers filed an appeal against both Norwegian and Swedish procurement authorities. That lawsuit was brought, but then the Swedish Competition Agency would look at it, and that is where the case now stands. On the last question, relating to officers, Norway has not withdrawn from cooperation. There is also no lack of willingness to bet on it, answer the opposite, we want to further develop it. Today we have about ten officers serving in various departments and projects in Sweden. What has been a small challenge is that it is not a completely equal way to do it in Norway and Sweden. While we, partly because of the integrated strategic management, have Swedish officers in the Ministry of Defence, in the long-term planning departments, at the strategic level, Norway has its officers in the Defence Commands. And then it won't be close cooperation. So we want to further develop it, but maybe look at and adjust in what areas we have our officers. Because it is also an important part of Norwegian-Swedish cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e430	The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 2 and 3 are treated together. – No objections have been raised to this, and it has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e433	I'm just going to say that the committee agrees unanimously with the assessments that the ministry has made. We propose that the Convention be incorporated and that the necessary changes be made to the Sale of Goods Act and the Contracts Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e438	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e452	This is a matter to which the Committee unanimously agrees. The Ministry has decided to change the name of the Central Administration of Criminal Welfare to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare to make it clear that the Administrative Board is an ordinary Directorate. The reason is the government's decision to move the Crime Agency's central administration to Lillestrøm by 1 July 2013. Changing the name involves technical changes to the laws in which the name is used. Furthermore, it is proposed to introduce an incursion in Section 16 of the Penal Code. The changes in the laws promoted in this proposition are only technical changes as a result of the change of name.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e477	Those in prison are people with normal lives ahead of the criminal action. This means that they're part of a family, they're someone's sons, daughters, sister or brother, someone's father or mother, and they're part of a social network outside prison. When a criminal act is committed, the person who has committed a crime shall be punished fairly, and we shall have predictability in criminal law. The most important crime prevention work we can do is to bet on punishment and prevention that we know works. Some people who do not have predictability in their own situation are children of prisoners. They are often unaware that their parents do something criminal, and get their everyday lives turned upside down on the day this is revealed. They are also innocent of the parents' crime, but still victims of the punishment the parents get. Children and relatives tell the truth about the situation, as there is a lot of shame and stigmatisation associated with having a criminal spouse or mother or father, shows investigations. My daughter-in-law had a job as an assistant teacher in a fourth grade a few years ago and told me about an episode the first day after the vacation. The teacher told the class that he had been in prison during the summer vacation. There was a great uprising, and the students wondered, of course, what he had done there. When he told me he had a summer job, a relief sigh went through the whole class. My daughter-in-law had been watching in the spare minute after that hour, and as she walked there, there came a little hand and stuck in her hand. There was a little boy who said, "Well, can I tell you something?" – Yes, she could. "My father is in prison," said this boy. No one at school knew anything. It's an almost invisible group. No number records are kept. The municipalities don't know who they are. Teachers, neighbors and acquaintances rarely know it. In the 2001 Criminal Enforcement Act, prisoners with children were granted certain rights. It was to be organised for children's visits to prisons, and the children's right to get together was to be taken into account. The Children’s Convention was incorporated in 2003 and St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, effective punishment gave a new and different focus on child-related prevention. The children often walk alone with their concerns, and it may be bad for those who are so big that they know what a thief is, but who do not have a conceptual device to understand what punishment and imprisonment really are. That is why it was an important step to put in place good visiting arrangements, and prisons had to facilitate visits, so that children could meet their mother or father in prison. However, children’s needs should always be assessed on an independent basis. Not all children should visit their mother or father and rights of access should be assessed only according to the needs of their children, not their parents. Unfortunately, these don't always match each other. In the health and social sector, there has been a strengthening of children’s rights. There have been legal provisions dealing with the needs of children when parents have a serious illness or have had extensive or major social challenges. In the specialist health service, it is stated in the law that there should be a system of child contact at hospitals. The Fangers Family Association has since its establishment in 1992, put on the agenda the situation of prisoners, relatives and children and has been a national driver to put in place mechanisms to improve their situation. They work closely against other actors in the home and abroad, including with the National Network of Competences Children’s Best, a Nordic network and COPE — a European network working for the situation of children of prisoners at European level. I would like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to the work of the Fangers Family Association. They've been a national engine to get us others to see that prisoners' relatives and children are being unfairly hit through many of the consequences of the punishment of spouses and children actually have for them as well. The church's urban mission has important measures for this target group in several cities, and more organisations, such as Wayback in Kristiansand, are taking children's situation more and more into account in their work. The Red-Green Government was committed to strengthening these measures in its budgets and to working at the tame of its government's time to also put in place legal provisions on children in the law. Voluntary work is important, but it does not detract from the responsibility of the State to implement priority actions in this area. The state must facilitate that we minimize as much as we can the negative and unwanted consequences of parental punishment on the children, and I believe that a law provision would contribute to this. It is estimated that there are between 5,000 and 9,000 children with parents in prison in Norway. The Levike Year report from 2004 surveyes the living conditions of prisoners in 37 prisons in Norway. The study shows that about 30 pst. had parents with drug problems; an estimated equal number had been in contact with child protection; and about 30 pst. had other family members who had been in prison. It's in the interpolation shown to these 30 pst. Just to clarify any misunderstandings, it's not 30 pst. total, but it is 30 pst, respectively. in each group. One can expect some overlap, but still many prisoners have grown up with heavy loads associated with having one of the parents in prison. In the EU COPING report, more than 1,500 prisoners and relatives are involved, and estimates suggest that around 800,000 children have parents in prison in Europe. The report points out that well-developed welfare schemes can reduce the negative impact. At the same time, it is concluded that policy-makers and policy-makers have the most attention in terms of punishment, and that is also the main theme of the public debate. The situation of children generally lacks political involvement. I think the state should take a greater hold on this. I had an interpellation with the former government council Knut Storberget about this, and I know that he started a work related to the new Penal Code. There has also been more focus on this in several prisons. Kristiansand prison was early out, without making their own position. Prison, Ringerijke Incarceration and Bredtveit Prison have established child-responsors who do an excellent job — at least according to the reports that flow to me. In the north region, this is established in all units of criminal justice. It's very good, and it indicates that employees really see the need for such a plan. In Sweden, there is a compulsory system of child care services in prisons, and in Denmark, all prisons now have child care officers. Preventing crime is primarily about good prevention, and criminal work is very well done in today's prisons. My impression, after a relatively short period of time in the Justice Committee, is that there is a great deal of interest and focus on measures that can rehabilitate criminals when they zones. The methodology for rehabilitation may be different. The soul of Gudbrand, the murderer who carved out the lions outside the Storting, was rehabilitated in the «slavery». He may have met a wise guard who saw that there were opportunities for him too. Rehabilitation and prevention are sometimes two sides of the same issue. Making prisoners able to care for their parents while they are sons can be a good investment to improve the ability of children to live good lives as children. There may be something to prevent a criminal track from being repeated. Social inheritance is not fateful. Crime does not infect; it continues more often when children have to sort shame, stigma, anger and experience of being different, alone. I look forward to this debate, and I look forward to hearing the views of the Council of State on the questions I have asked in the interview: Will the Council of State respond to the needs of children of prisoners in Norwegian prisons? Does the Council of State consider that the legalisation of the assessment of children’s needs and the establishment of children’s contacts to be relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e523	Let me first give the representative Henriksen the honor to address an important issue, and also acknowledge the work she has done to safeguard the interests of children, especially children who have a mother or father in prison. It says respect. This is a very vulnerable and vulnerable group. They face many different challenges, including interpellant intervention, when mother or father is judged to have committed crime and later to execute the sentence. The government will pursue a policy that takes care of the individual’s need for security and legal certainty, and of course it will also apply to children affected by the consequences of parental criminal acts. I am concerned that the care of victims and relatives should be taken into account throughout the criminal proceedings. The judgment must, of course, be held responsible for putting the relatives in a difficult situation. But it is nevertheless a social responsibility to support those who are suffering the consequences of the punishment. Prisoning or other criminal execution of a parent or another caregiver has major consequences for children. The stigmatisation to which children with parents in prison may be exposed in kindergarten, school or other parts of the child’s social circle and networks is an important part of that picture. One of the dilemmas of punishment is that it has unintended effects on others other than the convicted one. As the representative Henriksen points out, research shows that the imprisonment of a close family member represents and reinforces the risk that the child in many different areas of life will also be exposed to marginalisation and crime later in life. I therefore fully agree with the representative that there is particular reason to consider the situation of children as being related from both a humanistic, a health and a crime prevention perspective. Crime prevention is well under way with measures that increase the possibility of early intervention, in order to help children and parents – in their life situation – in such a setting. A number of voluntary organisations – both for Fanger's relatives, to whom the representative Henriksen was involved, Red Cross and some others – are key support players in this work. Criminal services, together with voluntary organisations, have also developed information material for children who have their mother or father in prison. In several prisons, life courses, parental guidance courses and so-called father groups are offered. The aim of these measures is to better address the needs of children both while parents carry out prison sentences and after release. In order to improve the situation of children of convictions, we are also strengthening the repatriation work during the criminal execution. Facilitating as much contact as possible with convictions and their children can facilitate the return of a crime-free life after the imposition of penalties. Of course, this will benefit the children. With regard to the system of child-responsors, this is already established by several prisons in the country, as the representative Kari Henriksen described in his statement. On Monday this week I visited Verdal prison and met among others. The child manager there, and I was told about their experiences and the way they work to strengthen the possibilities for better contact between children and established parents. They include: created a separate booklet called Mattis on a visit to prison, which is really a Thorbjørn Egner-inspired story that they give to all children who are going to visit for the first time, so that they can prepare the child, but also mother — often — or father, who will attend this visit, on what they can meet, how Verdal prison puts its apparatus at the disposal, and how this visit is carried out. It is a very good and educational way to inform children about a situation that in any case will be difficult. There is also a lot of enthusiasm in criminal care for this type of action. In Verdal, they also experience that in some cases prisoners are far away from their children, so that the practical implementation of physical visits is difficult. They have started a project where they use the Internet and Skype to enable contact between parents and children. There is, of course, an individual assessment of the circumstances in which this can be done. However, the use of modern technologies to also strengthen the possibility of contact between parents and children is important. I think there are good reasons to look at the legislation that exists today. Under Section 3 of the Penal Code, criminal law already has a responsibility to emphasise the right of children to be associated with their parents while they are under criminal law. In addition, rules include: increased access to leave, telephone time, etc. to maintain contact with their own children but in different regulations. I would like to stress that the best of the child is always a fundamental prerequisite for all the decisions that criminal justice will take in terms of contact between the courts and their children. And as the representative Kari Henriksen was also involved in his post, it's not always that it's best for the child to have contact with parents. That is why we depend on a thorough individual assessment before implementing this, and that is the good system for the criminal justice system today. We consider the question of legalising a system of child-responsible officers in all prisons and voluntary care centres according to the model of health legislation. There is what the representative, Kari Henriksen, also said, has done a basic work by the previous government that we are now reviewing. An alternative to a change in the law is, of course, the regulation of the scheme. I believe that further focusing on many of the good measures that are already in criminal care, and keeping political pressure on these issues, will strengthen the possibilities of criminal justice to improve the situation for children as too relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e554	First, I would like to thank you for what I interpret as very positive signals in the Council's response, and I also thank you for the recognition he shared in the work I have done in relation to children. I thought it was very positive signals when the Council of State pointed to the need for good content in prisons, and that parent groups could be a way of rehabilitating both parents to care for their parents and children to care for their childhood. I thought that was very good. There are some challenges to this which I hope you can discuss in the ongoing debate and also in the further work on these things. I interpret the Council of State so that he assesses a change in the law, possibly allowing it in a form of regulation. I believe that a change in the law is the most important thing for children, because when you have a change in the law, you also have more tools to follow up and check that it actually happens as it is intended. But I look forward to what comes from the department, with anticipation. I also think that further work should also consider the nature of the content to be associated with the contact with children. That's how prisons today are full. Prisoners are not in prison where they live. This means that family and relatives and especially children have to travel quite far to meet their parents when visiting them in prison. It's also the way that the secret and what really happens in children's lives happens in a municipality where they aren't actually, and the parents aren't. I think that in the further work it will be very important that the municipalities also pay attention to the need to have an offer for this group, and have information that it is possible to apply for help in the municipalities without having to wait for the children to have a diagnosis and to be referred to somewhere – that is, prevention at the lowest level. I am also pleased that the Council of State signaled that he agreed to focus. I also expect that the Council of State will be one of those who raise this need in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e569	First of all, with law or regulation: the starting point is that the rights of children should be guaranteed in the best possible way, and that is why we consider both the possible legalisation and whether it is appropriate to do so in a regulatory change. A regulatory attachment can be more concrete, including: related to the content, of which the representative Kari Henriksen is concerned. But we will come back to how to implement it in practice. I think we agree that the most important thing is to ensure that children have the opportunity and the right to have association with the parents who are in prison. I fully agree that it is important not least to think about prevention in the municipalities, and it is also important that the municipalities are aware that this is a problem for some of the children for whom they are responsible – and care, in many cases. It is important, both at kindergarten level and at primary school level, to be aware of the need to support those children who are in such a situation. But I think it's hard – still – to get away from the taboo field as it is, and as the representative Kari Henriksen pointed out in his main post instead. Unfortunately, it is probably difficult for some to talk about this, and it also makes it more complicated for the municipalities in the work they are going to do and target the children who need that follow-up. It's a challenge that prisons are full. This means that in some contexts there will be a long journey distance between the child’s place of residence and the place of residence. Several measures can be taken. Of course, one of the most important measures is the release of more prison capacity. But within the current framework, the actual use of modern technology – which I gave an example from Verdal instead – is one of the possibilities that strengthen the contact surface potential between a prisoner and the children. What has now happened in Verdal, I think, can develop elsewhere. The experience they have in Verdal prison is very positive about this, so I hope that other prisons will take this further. Of course, I should like to contribute to raising these issues in the public debate. It may be a contribution to reducing taboo challenges that we, as politicians, are highly focused on the challenges these children face. I think that is important, also as a sort of statement of support for those who have come up in such a situation quite innocently.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e582	Just as representative Kari Henriksen thought it was a very happy response from the Council of State on an incredibly important topic, and also many positive signals. I think we have recently, as in health, expanded our understanding not only to see patients or prisoners, but also to see the frames around and not least the closest family and children. So I think it might be wise to look at different measures, and maybe evaluate, so that before you attach rights through regulation or law, you go in and look at the real content to see what really serves the purpose best. Because I think everyone who's engaged, and who has knowledge of what it's like to be in a prison and what it does to both prisoners and the family, sees that there's a lot of pain here, and that we have to take in knowledge. I think it's also wise to look at it a little bit across the sector. In any case, my experience is that with the law on public health, very many municipalities have seen the challenges of living conditions among their citizens, but I have never seen that children of prisoners have been raised as a matter of their own. Now I haven't seen everything, but I think it's also out there, because they're some of our most vulnerable inhabitants, and as both Kari Henriksen and the Council of State said, they need the attention that big society can give, to lift them up and help them get the best life and growth possible, and preferably without ending up in a criminal racetrack. Because we know that this is often inherited. I have made contact with the West Crime Centre, and they highlight Ålesund as one of the cities that has launched general measures aimed at children who have difficulties. Then it's not just about addressing issues related to parents and relatives who are in jail, but simply inviting them into positive arenas, such as sports and culture. So I'm going to ask the Council of State to look into that. The Bergen prison spent some of the money they got in connection with the financial crisis making a visiting home. I've been there myself. It's a sober standard, but it's bright, it's pleasant. There it is possible to make dinner, play cards, it is possible to reestablish relations that are damaged, it is possible to build new relationships. Everyone who's been in a prison knows what physical framework does, and I think that having to visit mom or dad or uncle or aunt in normal surroundings does something to the prisoner, that they feel that they can do something, but not least do something to the kids, who might catch up with the frames a lot more than what we do. The best interests of children should also be at the root of the policy we are now pursuing. I also reported that more people were involved in this with closeness, and I think it is quite essential that when we look at the future prison structure, we have to see if there are not only opportunities via Skype, but simply to have physical contact, that when we see where we are going to establish a prison – not least for those who are going to return to Norwegian society – we have to see if there is an opportunity to put it in the community, where there are relationships that should be reestablished, and not where there should be a distance. But it's not just proximity; it's also important to have prisons that have a professional environment that are able to facilitate it. So there's a balance here. Professional environments do not always depend on size, but very often, because there are a lot of reasons to go to prison. I also think it's very good social economy to bet more on how we can bring the prisoners back to society, both for the children involved, and not least for themselves. I have been a part of visiting prisons, and some of the worst is just the contact they have with children. Finally, I would just like to say that it is gratifying that in recent times there have been a number of television programmes that have raised and interviewed some of the prisoners and some of the relatives. Maybe this is also an arena that manages to reduce taboo and vulnerability. So there's a lot of positive happening, and we're looking forward to further follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e601	I would like to thank Mr Henriksen for addressing this important issue and, not least, thank you for the Minister's reply. Being in prison is a punishment that the criminal must take for his or her actions, but the extra penalty that it is to have his or her mother in prison is an extra burden for a child – for the child, but also for the prisoner. Crime prevention has an important role to play in doing all they can to help the prisoner get the best possible conditions under the current circumstances to rehabilitate — to obtain education, to ensure that drugs and, consequently, the threat to prison are not present — so that the prisoner can come out and be a social resource further and be a part of the parent of his children. It is also important to be able to have contact with the young during accompaniment. At the same time, it is important that the child’s experience of being in prison is not difficult for the child. The child’s sense of security is important, while at the same time ensuring security in prison, and it is important to be able to find good solutions to these two issues. Therefore, it is important that criminal justice solves this task of ensuring that children are not subjected to an additional burden because of their parents' crimes. At the same time, efforts are being made by several non-governmental organisations, including: For Fang's relatives, important in the rehabilitation. I note that the Minister of Justice refers to examples where this is well solved in today's criminal justice system, and it is important for me, as a justice politician, to follow up on this along with all the other necessary conditions in the criminal justice system, which will help to ensure that the conditions in prisons are of such quality that we do not produce new offenders. But most importantly, as this interpellation travels as a theme: Children of prisoners are important to take into account. They are totally innocent in this, and it must be ensured that they are not exposed to unnecessary risks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e616	First, I would also like to thank both the inter-pellant and the state council for their excellent contributions and also for the fact that it may seem that there are things going on. It is a very important matter that is being raised. It's an important issue for the kids involved, and it's also important in the perspective that several people have come up with, that one avoids the kids ending up in a criminal racetrack when they get older. I checked in the 2004 Fafo report that the interpellant pointed out, and I see that this concerns approx. half of the prisoners – about half of them. Half are in fixed conditions when entering prison, and about half are in prison. half have children. What's interesting is that seven out of ten fathers had contact with the kids weekly or more often before they entered prison. For the mothers, this number is a little lower – four out of ten. It shows that this is a problem that affects a lot of people who are in the hospital, and a lot of kids. In this perspective, if you look at the relationship between parents and children in terms of, for example: education, professional choice or e.g. We know that children tend to do much of what their parents have done. This is why it is very important, both from the perspective of young people, to have the best possible growth and to ensure the quality of life, and also in terms of prevention, to avoid crime. For me, this shows the width of the field with which we work in the Justice Committee. One can easily talk about the conditions in prison, but it only shows how important it is – as others have been in it – that one ensures that these children are followed up well in school, that child protection comes early in where there are challenges, that they get good follow-up for health, that municipalities draw up their own plans, as well as a good report here. Prevention is the key. But I especially want to raise the content of criminal justice. The Minister of Justice has been commendable in pointing out that there is too much evidence, that there is a job that needs to be done. Because we know that the challenges when it's so high are that employees are struggling to get time to follow up the programs that a person wants to ensure the best possible rehabilitation, but also that distances are long. This is the case, for example. in my own territory: many from Agder as sons in prison must go to the Åna prison or even more. Then it becomes more challenging also for the kids. I visited the Åna prison on Monday. Child-responsors are a good move, and I'm glad that the interpellant is so clearly raising it, and that the Council of State wants to look further at this. I think it'll be important to have this in all prisons. In Åna prison, they didn't have the economy to implement as many of the programs as they wanted, and there's a well-known feedback we get from people in the criminal care community. But they had one program, and there was Dad in prison. I'm glad it was a priority task for them. One prisoner I met, who had been in prison repeatedly, had hung up 20-30 pictures of his daughter in three years. It shows how much it means to them when they are in prison, that they are allowed to maintain contact. He took my hand and promised that he would never go to prison again. I hope it's a promise he's making. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would also like to stress that the path that the new government and the cooperation parties have shown in terms of increasing efforts also on the voluntary organisations must continue. Several have mentioned the Fangers' Family Association, the Church's Bymition, WayBack, the Salvation Army, the Red Cross, etc. They also do a very good job, and we should not underestimate that either. It is also an aspect of the implementation of penalties: an SSB report from 2013 showed, for example, that: those who carry out punishments with electronic footlinks and community sanctions are less likely to lose contact with society and working life compared to those who are in prison. If you look at the relapse rates in the same report, from 2005, it was after four years in freedom 55 pst. who had committed a new crime and was re-aimed. That was 42 pst. That got a verdict, and that was 33 pst. who returned to prison. One also knows that the numbers are much lower for alternative forms of reconciliation. The inclusion of both rehabilitation and the situation of children is a good perspective in the debates we are going to have on criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e639	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Henriksen for raising this important issue. Focusing on the needs of young prisoners in both prevention and good parental relationships is important. Step Skei Grande had a similar interpellation about this in 2004. It shows that this is not a new issue and a challenge we have yet addressed. It's probably a long time before we're satisfied, but that's something we need to work on continuously to get better. Kids shall not suffer from parental faults. It seems to me to be a good principle to work from this point of view, too, because even if parents have committed a criminal act and have to take the consequences of it, it is important that we, as a society, facilitate young people to suffer as much as possible for it. Being in prison is tough for many. It has to be, because you pay a penalty. However, losing contact with or reducing contact with the young is an additional burden for many prisoners. Contact with the children and the mother of the children on the way is important for different reasons, not least for the relationship between parents and children. But that's also important for rehabilitation for the prisoners. Having contact with their kids along the way gives motivation in the room and until you go out again. We've heard many people who have told us about the good measures there are different places. It is about facilitating visits to visiting rooms and holiday homes. It is about facilitating various activities outside prison. It's about making sure that kids can get into prison and see how mom or dad does it when they're working, where they're working, where they're studying, where they live, etc. Not least, it is also about the job that voluntary organisations do for these relatives. I think it's important that we keep working on this, and I'm very happy that the Council of State is so clear that this is something that needs to be prioritised. From the left hand side, the important thing is that we do something about this. Whether it is a law or a regulation – the important thing for us is that we get programs, and that we have responsibility in prisons that have the task of ensuring that the relationship between children and parents can be maintained under atonement. We look forward to the further work, and we have faith that the Council of State will follow this up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e660	I would also like to start by commending the interpellant to raise an important issue. I want to mention a moment that I miss a little bit in the debate. What we're discussing are kids who are in a difficult situation, and I think it's important to remember that the best thing for the child is to spend time in situations where it's not for the best for the child to have a relationship. Maybe we'll discuss this a little too rarely. I fully agree that it is incredibly important to make it possible for both young people and parents to have contact in difficult situations in life. But to ask the question, is it sometimes such that a person thinks that it is important for the rehabilitation of parents to have contact with the children? Then it's also very important to ask questions about whether it's for the child's benefit. The Labour Party has been in Copenhagen and visited the Fangers Family Association there, and it was a theme that we also discussed there, and I feel that many are busy with. A one-sided focus should not be on parents’ needs for rehabilitation. One must also focus on the importance of being on and having good system and competence on what is best for the child. There I think we might be able to raise that issue to a greater extent in this debate and maybe look at how other countries are working on it. We know that Norwegian criminal services are very good at facilitating visiting rooms and keeping children visiting prison. In Telemark we have a large prison in Skien. There I feel that there is a good cooperation between the prison and the host municipality and between child protection and criminal services. Some of the kids who are related are often inside the child protection system, and I think it is incredibly important that a person also locally set up a good cooperation and good contact between the criminal services, the municipality and the systems to take care of the young. It is clear that for some young people it may not be best to go to prison. We must also bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e674	Thank you for a very good debate that I think has fanned wide. There is currently a television programme – in connection with our anniversary of the Constitution – that has shown the history of criminal practices in Norway. In the world context, it was first banishment, then it was linking, then we got cells, and then it was a very belief in isolation, and now we've gone on to electronic reconciliation. All these are methods to prevent people from repeating crime. That is why I am very pleased that many – I think almost all the representatives who have been up – have pointed out this with the content of prisons. It is important to combat crime that you have a strong and powerful focus on this with rehabilitation and what actually works. I also want to bring forward the representative, Grung, who pointed out this with professional environments. Weakness was inside of his post, and I was also a little bit into it in my post, that it is the best thing for a child to be in focus, not the parents' need to see the children. But it requires that you have professional environments and knowledge. If you want to be clear about the knowledge you have, you need a staff as well. This is why it is important that prisons are put in place and cleaned up in such a way that you get enough staff. They must have sufficient knowledge. And when it comes to prevention, it's incredibly important that this also happens in the municipalities, and that these children sort of get a place in the public space when discussing prevention. The representative, Nybø, was involved in this with the law and regulation and said that in a way, it's kind of the same shape that it comes in. I want to say that if you're going to give some strong signals to society, I think that's what I'm still more likely to do. That means that this room and the representatives sitting here will be responsible for changes in the law that we have. I think that's a very powerful signal to give, and that's maybe what these kids really need. Regulations can be changed without going the way about Stortinget. In the end, it's always hard to reconcile two conflicting thoughts and ideas at the same time. We have a notion that those who are criminals are evil and have done evil deeds, and at the same time we have a notion that they are fathers and mothers and very similar to us. I hope that the debate we will have in the future on both reconciliation and this with children can help us to reconcile these two ideas both in the public debate and in our own minds.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e687	I would like to thank you for a good and really very comprehensive debate on a very important area. I believe that most of the speakers have shared both the concerns and opinions about the challenges we face, and have also largely agreed on solutions. That's very good. As far as the discussion of law and regulation is concerned, we will come back to it, but initially, and as we have to take part in that assessment, it is probably faster to implement regulatory changes than legislative changes, which still have to be followed up by regulations. But that's what we're going to get back to, because the purpose will be the most important thing to do. Then I want to say a little about the representative Grungs post, she said something about the whole thing. It is extremely important, also in this area. It's a general, important challenge. Going around and seeing how the visiting facilities are in some prisons gives some experiences. Many of the visiting facilities are quite poor and are poorly suited to receive special children on visits. The representative mentioned, inter alia: The mountain as an example of a place of visitor residence. It's also elsewhere. Ringerijk, Halden, Bredtveit and Åna, who the representative Ropstad had visited, also have similar visiting facilities. It is clear that having good visiting facilities when visiting a father or mother in prison is an important measure in itself, because it should not be a frightening and negative experience for the child. Other examples are that one has implemented parental groups, where one has several children together, and where one does a normal activity, which means that the children do not feel so strongly the limitations and limits that lie within such a contact point with mother or father. The robberies were also concerned with high levels of cover in prisons. It's extremely high -- too high compared to what you would want. It is also demanding for the content that one should contribute to creating within prison walls, because it takes a lot of resources when prisons are as full as they are. It's a focus on which the government has a lot, a lot of pressure, to improve prison capacity in general. Finally, briefly to the representative Wagslid, who is in the midst of a very important point that both the interpellant and I also affected in our posts: that it is the best of the child that should lie on the ground. It is not always best for the child to have contact with his or her father or mother in prison. It is therefore important to have both the necessary knowledge, insight and capacity to carry out a thorough assessment of how this is to be carried out. I would also like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e698	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e714	Today I promise an interpellation on an incredibly difficult topic, but I feel that it is important that we discuss it ‘in peacetime’ when we have the opportunity. Before Christmas, the Belgian Senate voted in favour of a bill that very sick kids should be able to get active death support. The House of Commons shall vote on the matter in the first half of 2014. The country will then be the first to open up death services without a lower age limit. People elected in Belgium want to give freedom of choice to children who are able to make their own decisions. In order to be granted death care, young people must suffer severe pain, be cut off from other treatments that can help, and they must be able to understand what death care involves. The child's doctors and parents must consent to this death grant. Active death grants, or euthanasia, for adults were authorised in Belgium in 2002. 1400 made use of the option in 2012. The number has increased every year. In the Netherlands, death care is lawful for children up to 12 years of age, with the consent of their parents. The Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, which are the three countries in Europe that allow active death grants, have relatively similar legislation. They allow both euthanasia, which involves death by putting an injection, and assisted suicide, where the patient does it himself. That is, the patient is given medications that allow a person to actually commit suicide. In order for active death aid to be granted, the doctor must, through conversations with the patient, feel convinced that the patient is suffering completely unbearable, and that the condition is incurable. Another doctor shall also examine the patient and must agree to this assessment before being given the law. 3 pst. all deaths in the Netherlands are caused by this legislation. Last year, 42 people with dementia and 13 people with severe mental disorders were given help to end their lives. In Belgium, there is a debate on the relaxation of the rules on active death aid. One has, among other things: the question of active death aid should be addressed to people in prison. A prisoner in a Belgian prison says that the conditions that have caused him so much psychological pain that he asks the courts to assess whether he can be granted active death help. So this creates precedent. In Switzerland, it is not punishable by unselfish assistance to someone who wants to commit suicide. That is to say, there are others who help with the practicality of assisted suicide. One of the organizations that does this is Dignitas. They also accept foreigners. Just over the New Year we heard about this particular institution, because in all the newspapers of the country we read about Danish Jane who ended her life at this clinic in Switzerland. She was 53 years old. She suffered from the severe nervous disease ALS. She stood up in the media because she wanted active death aid and that it would be legal in Denmark. She's one of several who's been standing up lately. In Norway, we know that we have our own association – the Association of the Rights of a Worthy Death – which works actively to ensure that death aid is allowed in our own country. We in the Christian People's Party fear that the demand for active death aid will push ahead and grow in Norway because of individual matters, and that is why I am taking the discussion now, before the individual matters come. We don't see a whole debate. That is why I feel that it is important that we take the debate. If we look at the glass ball, we see that this is a debate that can get too full in Norway. In any case, stories from individuals must not cause us to change the law as a matter of urgency, because the consequences are so great. When the debate on Jane went to Denmark, I met one of my best friends, who has ALS. He's been a crack man, written books. There's been a TV show about him, he's been a school principal, he's been a politician. I told you about this debate. [[rightens the thumb down]] Then he did that. Experience from countries that have allowed active death help shows that there are no pains that are the main cause of people choosing active death help. There are completely different reasons. It's loss of self-righteousness, it's loss of self-righteousness, it's loss of dignity – or they feel they've lost dignity – and not least, it's the fear of being alone, the loneliness. Therefore, we should rather see if we can facilitate better endings in people's lives. It is impossible to limit when active death aid is permitted. It becomes a society where the solution is to take life when it becomes difficult. Where shall the limit go between who shall live, and who shall die? Is it only physical pain that we have to decide whether to take life? Should children up to 12 years of age decide such things, as in Belgium – when they are not even old enough to vote for their own national parliament? What about people who are sentenced to life in prison? And what about mental pain? 5,000 Northmen are trying to take their own lives in our country. We'll save 4,400 of them – 600 will do it. Shall we let them do it because of mental pain? Who's going to define what pain is? When active death aid is permitted for some groups, there will eventually be a requirement that we extend it to other states. I think it's going to be a slope effect It's going to be just like in Belgium -- we're going to go to the end that it includes people who don't even have authority, i.e. children. The consequences of such a change of laws are completely unknown. According to the Association of the Rights of a Worthy Death, more and more Northmen order places each year at Swiss clinics, and possibly the number is higher than what we know. As an equivalent to active death aid, stands for the Christian People's Party and for me the word "life aid". Life help was provided, among others: See the 1999 survey, which is still on the table. The individual must be met with is such good treatment, good care and care that life becomes meaningful even if one knows that it goes to the end – despite limited lifetimes, despite major changes in function. Life help is to listen to the desire for help to end life, accept that it exists, find out what is behind it, and stay with the patient in the middle of what is difficult – even I have been sitting at many beds like that – dry to sit in it and say, "We can't do more, but we'll follow you into the last one." Palliative, or mitigating, treatment is given to persons who have a short life span remaining and diseases that are impossible to recover from. It is usually done at hospice, or in hospitals, municipal institutions or at home. Palliative treatment does not accelerate death or prolong the death process, but sees death as part of life. It is a treatment that also includes grieving and follow-up of the survivors. The reason why it came to relief treatment and that it was created hospice in London was that we weren't good enough to do this. That's the way I see we have to go in Norway. We have to look at how we can face the fact that death is part of life. Before we let people lie open at home, and we were around the dying. We've kind of made death a taboo. We must dry to sit there, relieve pain and relieve grief, and dry to be there. Per Fugelli has received the Free Word Prize for his openness on cancer and on death. He's concerned that we don't have to hide this from us, but that we have to take it as part of life. My question to the Council of State is today: What can we do to prevent the demand for active death aid from pressing forward in Norway? What can we do? Because we're not good enough to facilitate life's help. We're not good enough to face the pain, the grief, the dignity despite the loss of function.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e760	The representative of Bollestad today raises an important issue about what can be done to prevent active death services from pushing ahead in Norway. Let me state immediately: today's legislation is based on respect for the dignity and inviolability of human life. Health professionals are obliged to provide adequate health care, and active death care is punishable by Norwegian law. I want to be quite clear that this government will not change that. What we are really discussing today is that people in the final phase of life need and need relief and care, and that they will have a worthwhile end to life. For most of us, experiencing sickness, suffering and grief will be upsetting and painful. It's about being met with respect, and caring for physical, mental, social and spiritual needs. It assumes that everyone dealing with the patient has the same holistic and predictable approach to the sick and to the relatives, so that they can master the situation in the best possible way. The goal of the relief treatment is that the patient should be able to spend the last time he or she feels safe. For some it may be in hospitals, for others in their own homes or in hospitals. Patients and their relatives’ views should weigh heavily in the decision on treatment and care, and they should be well informed about the situation on the road. If there is no prospect of recovery or recovery, dying patients have the right to refuse life-long treatment. It's important to respect. Much good work is done in municipalities and in specialist health services to facilitate the provision of a decent and dignified service to people in the final phase of life. Health authorities have also contributed to lifting this field. The interaction reform, which will provide citizens with more and better services where they live, also applies to patients in the final phase of life. Many of these patients need complex and individual, organised services. Important measures here are individual plan and coordinating unit in the municipality. The cooperation agreements between municipalities and healthcare companies and the obligation to provide guidance to specialist health care should help to strengthen interaction and competence so that a patient is given good patient treatment for these patients. Local authorities have also gained better skills in relieving treatment, and they have strengthened professional development. This is known from experience gained following the introduction of grants for empowerment measures for relief and care at the end of life, which came in 2002. The Health Directorate has developed a national action programme with guidelines for palliation in cancer care. I would like to stress that the general conditions mentioned in the action programme also apply to patients who have diagnostics other than cancer and who are in the final phase of life. The Health Directorate is also working on a professional guideline for alleviating child care – regardless of diagnosis. It is planned to be completed during this year. In recent years, a specialised offer has been developed in the treatment of drug users on a country-by-country basis. Almost all healthcare companies now have their own teams for relieving treatment. All health regions have established networks of expertise with nurses in the care of cancer and relieving treatment. The regional centres of excellence for relieving treatment established in all regions are of great help in building skills in municipalities. They also provide advice to healthcare professionals on individual patients receiving treatment in their own home or in their homes. I would also like to mention the Centre of Competence at the University Hospital in North Norway, which has created its own manual in relief treatment. Voluntary, non-profit and private organisations are making great efforts. The Government will facilitate the strengthening of cooperation between public and voluntary organisations in this area. All these are good measures, which have contributed to better services for patients in the final phase of life. But – as the interpellant was about – this is not enough. We need more knowledge and more competence. We have started this by providing increased resources to improve skills. The size agreed to allocate another 50 million. SEK to Competencelift 2015 and SEK 2 million. to strengthen knowledge of relief and care at the end of life for children and young people. These last funds shall be allocated to non-governmental organisations, to information and to information activities in this area. We have also considerably strengthened the investment scheme for happy places of care, including: to allow municipalities to provide more places for relief and care at the end of their lives. We've increased the grant per hospital space from 40 pst. to 55 p.m., and we have increased the 2014 framework for how many lucky day care places that can receive grants. Through this, we help municipalities expand and strengthen their service provision also to patients in the final phase of life. The government platform states that we want a variety of offers, including hospice. Interpellant referred to the United Kingdom. We have a lot to learn from other countries, and we need to be better at taking over the experiences of other countries. Here it is important to think that each person has different desires and needs. Then, in this area, we must not give up a one-sided service, but a diverse service, and also let go of volunteers and ideals who want to be part of and contribute. So to the long-term effort: how to target and adapt the provision of relief services to the needs of patients? Here I would like to say that I want to follow up this interpellation by strengthening the expertise in this field. That is why, as a concrete follow-up to this interview, I have asked the Health Directorate to prepare a separate professional report. This report will provide the basis for how we will organise and design palliative services in the future. The technical report will provide us with an overview of what knowledge is available in the field, how users and relatives experience, how we organise the service in different ways — both professionally and administratively — and how it affects the quality of the offer. The professional report shall also assess the specific needs of children and young people. I also want the technical report to say something about how to achieve good and systematic cooperation between the public health and care services and other actors, such as volunteers and non-profits. In order to ensure that we have the right competence in this field in the future, the report will also address this issue. We need to know what competence we have today, but, not least, what competence we need in this area in the future. The reason for this is simple: we need to be sure that patients in a vulnerable and difficult situation, with complex needs, are met in the best possible way. Of course, patients, users and relatives should contribute their knowledge and experience in this technical report. The interpellant was aware that the last time we had a major review of this was in 1999. It's been 15 years. A lot has happened during these 15 years, both in Norway, professionally, and in other countries. That's exactly why we now need to get new, up-to-date knowledge in this area. We have a lot to learn from other countries. I have therefore asked the Health Directorate in this work to acquire knowledge from, among other things. Denmark and the United Kingdom, who have extensive experience in developing palliative services. I have given the Health Directorate a deadline of 1 December 2014 to deliver the technical report. The last time of life must be discussed and promised. People in the final phase of life will meet with respect and get good help. We shall contribute to that. The report will provide us with more knowledge of the field and will be an important contribution to preventing the debate on active death aid from pressing forward as an alternative in the debate on how to meet people in the final phase of life. It is a goal for us to make such a good offer and to create so much transparency around these questions that we avoid the kind of solutions that push, but get good solutions, which ensure people a decent end to life – good solutions for them, but also for those who stand around.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e806	It's someone who's said, "I will use my abilities for the best for my patients in accordance with my skill and judgment and never harm anything. I will not give mortal poison to anyone who asks for it, nor give advice on how they can end their lives. Sometimes couriers, often sooth, always comfort.’ This said Hippocrates – ‘always comfort’. What I want to thank the Council of State for his reply is that he wants to get a professional report. That's how we can figure out where we are, where we're going, and, not least, what we want now -- that we have an aspect here that is that we want to care for all the mental, physical, spiritual and social needs of the final phase of life. We know at the same time – the council also said it – that sometimes the patient says no, now I don't want any more. We need to respect that one doesn't want more treatment, when one knows it means one doesn't get better. We know this is happening in hospitals, we know this is happening in hospitals, and we know this is happening in the home. If we know death well enough, we also know that someone stops eating, not because they don't have appetite, but because the process in the body is so that it goes to the end. Then, as we stand around, we should have respect for such choices as well. But that's not what we're talking about today. It's about prolonging people's lives, not about death. One of the biggest problems I see, and on which I want to challenge the Council of State, is that I hear in meeting with health professionals: I would so much like to have more time, I would so much like to meet both the spiritual and the social needs, but I run, I don't have time – he's alone, she's alone. Therefore, this becomes a question of professional competence and of education, but also of resources, so that we have time to sit with those who are going to leave life – in respect of the one who is going to leave life, but also in respect of the family that is standing around, so that they feel good-bye.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e824	I very much agree with the considerations put forward by the representative, Mr Bollestad, in his statement. I have suggested that we define health differently from what the World Health Organisation is doing. There creates an illusion that a human being can live a life without plagues, listens or burdens. None of us will be able to live such a life. What's good health is mastering. So one can say in many ways that if we help people master that death is now coming, we help people to good health. This is precisely what Per Fugelli's important message is in the book 'Death, shall we dance?' that death can be a source of good health if one meets it with openness and not with fear and fear. This requires competence and experience. Not least, there is a need to involve the patient and relatives in a completely different way from what we are doing today. The national report on Norwegian cancer treatment, which we very often refer to in the case of deficiencies in diagnosis and treatment, also showed a different situation, namely that there was a high risk in Norway that many patients were overtreated in the sense that a driving treatment for as long as the treatment did more harm than benefit to the patient. There is also an important question in this context. I believe that if one more involves the patient in an assessment of the treatment method, the course of treatment and the alternatives facing it, it is not that the patient will always choose the most intensive treatment possible into the final phase of life. On the contrary, a lot of patients will want and rather choose to get a decent end to life where a person concentrates on what they think is important. Therefore, this technical report will also be an important basis for a new foundation for a good discussion on how to develop these types of services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e833	Despite the fact that the Norwegian health service is doing an excellent job of saving lives and improving the health of our Nordics every day, there are many patients who get the heavy message that their serious illness cannot be cured. Death strikes us as human beings and society every day. The debate on active death help flares up at regular intervals when bad patient stories come to light. The debate is demanding, precisely because it is about life itself – nothing less – and evil stories are a reality precisely because life can also be difficult. The working party is for many different reasons against making active death help legal. A legalisation will be almost impossible to enforce, and as the interpellant Bollestad is also concerned with: who should define the boundaries and how? Who shall determine whether active death aid is permitted on a case-by-case basis, and will active death aid only apply to somatic disorders, other suffering, specific suffering or no suffering at all? The questions are endless, and the frontier rise is so gray that no law will be able to protect either the patient or the health care staff fully, precisely because the patient will no longer be there to tell his story. In a legalisation, society wants to put enormous pressure and responsibility on Norwegian health professionals. It can't be that there are health professionals in a grey zone who are going to have the power to decide what is a worthy life. Many believe that the debate on active death care in many cases is about pain for the patient, but in those countries where active death care is allowed, pain is rarely the reason that patients ask for it. Often it is about existential problems — hopelessness, disability, feelings of unworthiness, loneliness and an experience of being a burden on society and its environment. Legalisation will therefore give the weakest and most vulnerable of us an opportunity to ‘give away space in the lifeboat’ and to choose a simple and painless death, rather than to continue to be a burden. We therefore do not need active death support in Norway to secure our patients a worthy death. Norway has one of the world's best and most liberal legislation in terms of patients' self-determination. Norwegian patients have the right to refuse life-long treatment, so that they can die a natural — and usually peaceful — death when they themselves are ready for it. The responsibility that rests on us politicians is therefore to make the time that a patient has left of his life, the best possible, and the most dignified possible. None of these processes will be the same, so the follow-up of this patient group will require a step-by-step approach. There must be interaction between the patient and relatives and also between the services in the municipality and in the specialist health service on the basis of a philosophy that the palliative bed is at all times where the patient is located. We have to make sure that health professionals have good enough knowledge to organize a good and soothing care at the end of life. Fortunately, most politicians in Norway agree with their views on active death aid — including the Minister of Health, as I perceived him in his reply to the interpellant. It is therefore surprising that the Minister himself, without any particular pressure from others, now seems to be the one who increases the pressure in the debate on active death aid when he sent out on 21 January a note of consultation that allows the determinations not only to be able to reserve themselves against referral to abortion but also to active death aid. Points 3.1 and 3.3.2 of the consultation proposal refer to active death aid together with abortion. Active death aid is currently regulated by criminal law and prohibited. It is therefore necessary to understand that the government either does not respect the basis of today’s abortion law and/or wishes and considers that active death aid is being provided. Such references should be removed. Addressing active death aid issues in this consultation note seems strange. It does not seem appropriate to have to consider in advance the reservation rules for any future amendment of the law, and it seems pointless to limit such a discussion to fixed doctors only when one first chooses to take it up. However, if the government wants to discuss the reservation for active death aid, the proposed booking rules seem to be inconvenient because the consultation note is too narrow and poorly explained, for example. by not mentioning the conduct of the action itself or of other health professionals affected. The Labour Party finds it somewhat regrettable that during its first months as a health minister, the Minister chose to give priority to taking a step closer to legalising active death aid when it is now proposed in such a narrow way to organise the law on active death aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e861	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Bollestad, for addressing a very important issue. People affected by a serious illness change their overall life situation. Life swirls down, and dreams crumble. For many, it also means that you become heavily dependent on others. You lose the ability to make your own choices, and the experience of controlling your own life is weakened. As human beings, we meet these challenges very differently, depending on how prepared we are, the life situation we are in, how the environment reacts, and not least the help provided by health care. Respect for human dignity is put on a serious test when we meet people in the final phase of life. It's just close to the extremes we find the value test pieces in our society. In order to counteract the demands for health care to contribute to the self-chosen end of life, it is important to ensure that the offer given to humans at the end of life is as good as possible, both human and professional. As others have said before me, the desire for active death help must be met with active life support. The demand or desire for death help often comes out of an experience of unworthiness and pain, and both the representative tongue and the representative Bollestad have been involved in several other situations that also make you want help to die. But as both of the two representatives have been involved, there are several other factors that also determine, namely the desire to escape from the mental distress associated with a very difficult life situation, and to be a burden to others. The Hospice philosophy has shown us an important way. The value base here is optimal treatment and care and care aimed at patients’ physical, mental, social, spiritual and existential needs. We know that good, thought-out offers create trust and security for patients, but also for relatives and health professionals. There are increasing numbers of relief units and palliative teams out in the municipalities. Here is an important work to be done. Many patients and relatives find safety, tranquillity and acceptance for the final phase of life, precisely because they meet care and competence to deal with the situation. We must meet the uncertainty of security and competence. In the Government Platform, the Right-Fremskrit party government has clearly indicated that this field should be better organised, with a greater diversity of offers and a clear expectation that knowledge and competence, research and professional development in palliative treatment should be better developed. In the 2014 budget, all parties supported, very positively, the Government's proposal for a 2 million allocation. to promote increased knowledge and information on relief and care at the end of life for children and young people. The YES voluntary association for children’s relief and care has done a considerable amount of work over the years to increase knowledge and improve care provision for seriously ill and dying children and their relatives – a work that helps to strengthen knowledge in the field, and which adds a new and important dimension to relieving treatment, namely that health services can better meet children, young people and their relatives when the need for relief and palliation occurs. We have to make sure that dying and seriously ill people feel that they have several real choices as to where and how they want to spend the last days of life. This is particularly important in the light of the fact that we are a multicultural society, where there are different views of what a person experiences as a worthy end to life. Professional and political priority must be given to building a better, safer and more dignified care at the end of life. It is, in my opinion, the only answer to the important and demanding questions from Bollestad in this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e878	First, I want to thank Olaug Bollestad for seeing this topic on the agenda, and also thank the Council of State Höie for his answer and his view on this important topic, because it's about us, it's about us all. We need to focus more on relieving treatment, on the organization of a worthy death, both for the person in the situation, and for the relatives. In my work as a nurse for many years, I have learned that just proximity, openness and being present are important. It's demanding, but we humans are whole people and have different needs. Difor is this very important. Outside the municipalities, based on the frameworks, try to provide relief units, for treatment in local medical centres, in hospitals, in home care. But this often has to be taken from the general framework. One must give a high priority to these units and outpatient teams, dementia care, long-term care, short-term places, rehabilitation. Creating a good supply of resources requires professional competence, but time is also needed for these vulnerable situations. I'm glad the council says we still have things to do. Many people have been made clean. Local authorities, professionals and volunteers will be in the front line; they will be involved, but, as I said, more resources are needed, both for the operation and to gain competence. Finally, it is the budget that governs the priorities. And I know as a saying that being a local politician is a tough thing when one is there and is going to be a priority between vulnerable groups. That is why we also need better financial instruments. I hope the Council of State will take back that these groups are especially resource-requiring as well. The active death help feature is not the solution. There is no alternative in the final phase of life. We need to secure a worthy end to life, and we also need to be dependants. Active life support, on the other hand, is what we need to focus on. In the beautiful text «But I go over the meadows» there is something important. And President, is it allowed to sing a stanza?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e895	I'm sure you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e898	Thank you very much – then I would like to do it: So I am on my paths towards the past and the harvest, [[The representative sings in dialect.]] not afraid of the outermost grinder – That’s what it’s about: ‘not to be afraid of the outermost gate’. We're going to have active life support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e909	The President will note that you must sing, you must have a good voice – we now know that the representative has that!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e913	It's a little downhill for me to come to the pulpit after this, but I'm also from Hordaland, so I'm a little tired of that song voice! I would like to thank the interpellant for including an important theme. She told me about what's happening in Belgium now, I thought I was pretty scary. I'll be very clear that the Center Party in its program has established that we are against active death aid. I can agree with what Bollestad says, that one can fear that the demand for active death aid, if not now, could push itself forward using individual things. It is important, then, that we debate this in peacetime, and it is important that both society and health care have thought well through what kind of restraints, frameworks and laws we should have about the issue of active death aid and the grey areas around it. I want to show you that the Christian People's Party delivered a Document 8 proposal to get a life support plan. In it, there were several good measures. I haven't checked how the reconciliation went, but at least there are good intentions there. One pointed to the need for more devices for relieving treatment, and that more people needed good help to die at home. So there's one point I want to deal with with today's Minister of Health, and that relates to funding. The Christian People's Party then pointed out, and I very much agree, that the piece-price financing that one has on this kind of treatment on relieving units should be removed. These units should be fully financed over the framework of hospitals. I also mean, we said it well in the settings at the time, that we have to evaluate the funding of these. I could imagine asking the Minister for Health about just that: how is a fund for relieving units in hospitals? Are they part of the increase in the price of the current government change or not? Otherwise, I found it very positive that the Minister of Health stated that active death aid will not be a matter for this government. And then I realize that the Minister of Health is talking a lot about the framework of the final phase of life and how to make the best of it. A great deal has been said about both empowerment, better interaction, guidelines for palliation and guidance for the relief of children and the escape from voluntary and non-profit organisations. Then I thought it was good what the health minister said that he had asked the directorate to prepare his own technical report on palliative services in the future, where one should also consider children and young people's professional needs. I also agree with the Minister of Health that there are good professional services and offers that can just prevent a demand for active death aid in the future. But it is a matter I want to raise, and as I ask that one also look at in the technical report, the practice of Norwegian hospitals when serious sick children are born. We often talk about the elderly who die, but we should also talk about sick children who are born. Siri Birdem Berg has shared his experiences from when she got Evy Kristine. She has written a book on the right of a different child. They are experiencing a strict practice, which is supposed to be in line with the current routines of Norwegian neonatal wards, where a do not treat babies with trisomy 18, one should not provide any life-saving or life-prolonging treatment, no fluid and nutrition, no simple non-invasive diagnostics. There is no provision for a minimum of normal measures, no support measures – the child will die. There has recently been an article from two large institutions in Japan, where there is standard treatment for babies with trisomy 18 – full treatment as for all other children. In Japan, the one-year survival of trisomy 18 is approaching 50 pst. I can't do enough about this, but I want the Minister of Health to go into this, go into the procedures and see if there's a good enough practice. If a child who knows he or she may not live, he or she should also feel that he or she is being cared for, that he or she is doing so in the best possible way, and that there is a worthy death for newborns.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e934	I am very pleased with the interpellation of the representative of Bollestad. It gives us the opportunity to discuss human life and human dignity. Personally, I have a non-religious approach to human dignity, and I believe that since Norway is a secular and multicultural society, we should also have a non-religious approach to this debate. By just having such an approach, we've made it a little difficult for ourselves, for what is human dignity? I'll come back to that a little bit. In Norway, Section 236 of the Penal Code prohibits the taking of life and the carrying out of a compassionate drop in Section 235. Under the law, the drop in compassion should be punishable. The European Court of Human Rights has so far ruled against an alleged right to death aid, but at the same time acknowledges that prohibiting individuals from receiving or providing help to die is an infringement of the right to privacy and freedom of conscience. Therefore the court leaves a certain room for interpretation to us nations. As the interpellant and several others have pointed out, the answers, which patients give as a reason for the desire for euthanasia, are somewhat alarming. Pain doesn't come first. They answer that the loss of dignity, independence, the desire to avoid the decay and the experience of the pain that pointlessly precedes. It's a little cross of thought when the fans often argue that it's just about the pain. Studies from the Netherlands show that the medical profession is too euthanasia, but many do not want to do this themselves. Many people talk more about greater emotional stress and stress when they've done this. In the criteria for euthanasia in the Netherlands it is that the suffering must be unbearable. At the same time, we know that research shows that palliative treatment can lead to unrest, hallucinations, affect and delusions that, in addition to the pain problem itself, make it quite difficult for patients to make a rational and clear choice. Studies also show that terminally ill patients are often clinically depressed, and that this group wants most euthanasia. It's no human right to be free from anything that's unpleasant, but it doesn't mean that we're not going to give good care in the last chapter of life. We also have to remember that someone's right to die in the same way is someone's duty to take life. Who's gonna be the executioner? Who's going to make the decision? Where are the limits going? And how much weight should we put on the value of human dignity and human life and the consequences of making ourselves the guardians of death? The question I ask myself is whether death is something we can put under human control. Or is there a limit to what is right or wrong, and does that limit go right here? Even from my non-religious perspective, I believe that life we've been given is a gift. And the fact that it will once be taken from us is part of the basic framework for a human life. Thus, I believe that raising oneself to lord of life and death does not coincide with my view of human dignity. My no to euthanasia is no sovereign recognition of human dignity if we do not have a good palliative treatment in Health-Norway. My no to euthanasia is also based on the fact that I believe we have research evidence that it is more problematic to introduce euthanasia than not. My no to euthanasia is a recognition that I believe human life is worth more than escaping pain in the final phase of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e953	I'm not going to sing. I'm glad we can play on many talents in the Christian People's Party, and one of them is Astrid Byrknes, who sings, and I'm very happy about that. I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. This debate is not finished, I think, because we'll get it back when the report comes up with what we can do better, and what we can put away. What the Council of State said, as others have said, and I want to focus on, is to involve the patient much earlier than we would like to have done today. What does it mean when I have a disease, which makes me maybe get a perspective on that long or that long life? How long does nobody know, but what we know, is that it's going to go one way. And how do we put up that race, the difficult conversation and the plan? When it comes to dry sitting and looking in the ball at what we know is difficult, along with the patient, I think we actually have a lot to go on in the Norwegian health care system. And even if we add a plan, it's not always that the plan goes the way we think, because every body is not the same, and everyone goes out of life in different ways. So I'm very happy, while we're getting a report, that the representative Toppe is taking up the issues of those who come into life, with different assumptions. It's going to be the same with criteria, with what we say yes and no to when it comes to who's going to live, and who's going to be put away. It's a very difficult choice, because sometimes we have nothing to do with and then we have to say, here we have nothing to do with. But at the same time it's about giving a good finish then as well. And if we have something to do with, which means that mother and child and family get a longer time together than they would otherwise have, it will also be a good end for both mother and child. So I think here's a lot of things that have to go in, and that I think the Council of State has brought with it. But what I think has been great is that we have actually found that we want and dare to stand in the debate and at the same time say that there are not individual things that are going to force something, but that we have a thought for this long before the individual things come. They will come, and they are difficult to see, but we have to take the debate. So thank you so much for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e964	I would also like to thank you for a very good debate, and then I would like to thank the representative of Mr Byrknes for a small mini-iconsert. It's not that often a person experiences it in Stortinget. It was a great voice, but it was also an important message in the little song. I feel that there is broad support for what was also interpellant and my approach to this issue, namely that active death aid is not a current policy in Norway. But it gives us a considerable responsibility to work better with what is the good option, namely good life support even towards the final stage of life. There have been many good and important contributions to the debate that I would like to take on board. So I also believe that this debate is a start to work, and that is why I am also following up the interview and the debate with the preparation of a technical report, which will affect the issues raised. It will give all of us a better basis for discussing how we're going to follow it up further, and in what form it's going to happen. There was a question about seriously ill children being born and their follow-up. I have stressed that special children should be part of this professional report. Here are some of the most difficult questions, because this is about, as I was also in my reply, the danger of over-treatment. This is, of course, a patient who can't even give a message about pain challenges. That's why it's also very important that one in that phase does no more harm than joy. That's why you're in that area, one of the most difficult, and I'm glad someone's taking this up. This is also a very difficult professional question, and that means that we, as politicians, need good advice. But as I said, in December we will now receive a hopefully good professional report in this area that provides both me and the Stortinget with a basis for further work and discussion on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e977	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e991	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e1006	No one has asked for the floor. After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e1011	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e1125	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e1135	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e1337	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e1347	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e1356	Case No. 7 and 8 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legal acts 31 and 32. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-30.ana.ud1100e1425	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
