ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e55	The representative Sigurd Hille, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. From the representatives of Kari Henriksen, Tor André Johnsen, Tone Merete Sønsterud and Kjell-Idar Juvik there are applications for leave on the 20th and 21st of March – all to attend the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Copenhagen and Warsaw. On the proposal of the Presidents, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the West Agder County: Linda Verdal 20 March For the Hedmark County: Hege Jensen 20 March and Thor Lillehovde 20 March For the Nordland County: Tone-Helen Toften 20 March
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e102	Line Verdal, Hege Jensen, Thor Lillehovde and Tone-Helen Toften are present and will take the seat. The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e107	Today, on behalf of the Green Party, I am delighted to present two representative proposals – the proposal by Mr Rasmus Hansson to stop the allocation of new blocks in the 23rd round of the Norwegian Consecution, and the proposal by Mr Rasmus Hansson to withdraw Statoil from tar sands in Canada.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e112	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e115	I want to put forward, on behalf of the representatives of big business, Jenny Klinge, Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundteigen and myself, a proposal for a five-year municipal health promotion plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e120	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e134	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the main speakers of the parties and a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e145	The treatment, consultation and discussion of Document 8:16 S has been very interesting. The nucleus can be summed up in three points. Point 1: We, the Storting, the Norwegian people, own one of the world's largest funds, with the responsibility and opportunities it gives. Paragraph 2: In the consultation and debate, everyone has actually agreed that there should be ethical limits to what the community should earn. There were some shades of consultation and debate. I would like to stress that the Progress Party's Germund Hageseter problematized a little around it. But the bottom column and the core is that a total accumulation represents ethical boundaries – that we are on the line that started in 2001, in terms of what Norwegian society is going to make money on. Point 3 – which has been circulated in the debate – has been whether the fund should be used more actively in climate change than it is now. The notes show clear differences. All parties discuss investments in fossil energy and coal and the challenges it presents. But there are two different entrances. The majority place the highest emphasis on financial risk. What is the financial risk of being so heavily weighted in fossil energy sources? Also in the hearing it was promised that when we have so much of our capital otherwise, for example. bound in Statoil and on Norwegian pedestal, what is the total financial risk associated with it? Can it make our wealth more vulnerable, when so much of our capital is tied to this sector at large? The minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, do not raise the financial risk as our main argument for less weighting within e.g. coal. There we have weighted climate as our main argument for possibly selling out of different fossil energy sources and have concluded that we believe that we should sell out of clean coal mining companies as soon as possible. So it's a very clear distinction in how to argue. Are you arguing ethically/ethically from a climate perspective, or are you arguing from a financial perspective and what is economically most profitable? There is a distinction between the minority in the Committee – I would also like to count on Rasmus Hansson in the Greens – and the majority in the Committee, who have taken the economic dimension into account. I really don't think it's surprising that the Right Party and the Advance Party are doing that, but I think it's amazing that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are taking this into account as their main argument for perhaps selling off in the long term, for the first time in coal, or perhaps in other fossil energy sources. I really don't think the main argument of the Left and Christian People's Party is a financial risk. I think the real motivation of the Left and Christian People's Party is climate and that we argue from the tradition we've had in managing the Norwegian oil wealth, that we're going to have some ethical boundaries. But it's very hard to see in the comments that the Left and Christian People's Party is behind here. Here, the economic arguments are the dominant ones, but I don't think that's what reflects their actual attitude. My conclusion is that the Left and Christian People's Party uses the so-called freedom they have in Stortinget, not to promote climate, but they use it to promote a cooperation climate with the Right and the Advance Party – that it has become more important, that you are afraid to vote for what you are for, and therefore that you arrive at an informal investigation instead of concrete action. For the majority of the sitting here, the conclusion was reached at No. 1, that we should sell ourselves out of clean coal mining companies. The left is for what the Christian People's Party is for what the Workers' Party is for what the Centre Party is for what the Green Party is for it, but you vote against it. I think it is sad and sad that the Left and Christian People's Party, which has now said over the year that they are not an active owner of coal companies, now puts the cooperation climate ahead of the climate, and that they argue from a purely economic perspective, and not from a climate perspective. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e168	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e171	There is broad political outreach on the broad lines of the management of the State pension fund abroad and that the investment strategy should be based on a sound, well-founded and knowledge-based basis. How does Battle Violence Vedum feel this is consistent with the proposal of the Centre Party, where the State pension fund is actually abroad in a few weeks' time to withdraw from coal mining companies? Is it that the Center Party connects with a well-founded and knowledge-based basis, and is this typical of the quality in the preparation of matters in general in the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e178	I think we had a very good process in the committee, not least during the hearings on this matter, where both Yngve Slyngstad and the Ethics Council leader, Ola Mestad, were present and gave their opinions on the consultation proposal. What was made very clear through the hearing was that it was very difficult to set the boundary between clean coal mining companies and companies engaged in coal in general. During the hearing, it became very clear that it was easy to conclude – even with the background of the Yngve Slyngstad – that it was possible to sell out of pure coal mining companies. It was a small part of the Oil Fund portfolio – according to what Slyngstad said at the meeting approx. 2.5 B.C.E. kr. Therefore, the centre party believes that it would be unproblematic to give it the signal, because it was made so clear that it was possible to set that limit. It had little economic effect, but it could have a strong signal effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e185	In the same hearing, I realized that the head of the Ethics Council, Professor Ola Mestad, felt that it was more complex to deal with issues related to the extraction of the coal industry than the tobacco industry – issues such as: what is a coal company, what is the purpose of the extraction, and shall it exclude an entire sector or only individual companies? Nevertheless, despite the views of the Ethics Council President, is the Centre party ready to withdraw coal companies from the State pension fund abroad in just a few weeks through the proposal put forward by the Centre Party today? Does that mean that Battle Violence Vedum believes that Professor Ola Mestad of the Ethics Council has overlooked anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e190	When you read the comments and setting, you will see the green thread that is there – it is that we have just followed Ola Mestad’s recommendations. What he said was that it would be very difficult – as I also said in my previous answer – to define the weight of companies in terms of coal. He divided into different categories, and one of those categories was pure coal mining companies. There was no doubt that clean coal mining companies were only dealing with coal. So Slyngstad subsequently made visible in the hearing that when it came to pure coal mining companies, it was an investment portfolio of about 2.5 B.C.E. kr. That's why we're going to conclude on just the narrow part. In the proposal for conclusion point 2, we are asking for an investigation to establish guidelines on which other coal mining companies we are going to withdraw from, because we believe that it is too premature to conclude with now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e197	It was interesting that the case rapporteur spent most of his time on the Left and Christian People's Party in his post. One more hopeless claim after another, I am happy to come back to the post. But if we are to follow the reasoning of the Battle of Vedum, that is, that someone is setting the climate of cooperation in front of the environment – in the light of the message we received in the Stortingen less than a year ago – I would like to ask, and I expect this to be a clear answer to: When was the Center Party decided to put the environment ahead of the economy or the cooperation climate in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e204	The attempt at indignation that Hans Olav Syversen here is trying to do, the representative dresses very badly. We clearly went through the matter in the file comment, and some of the most interesting thing at the end of the case is that the Left and Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against what they are in favour of. I understand that's exhausting, but it's a fact. Now you have the opportunity to show the way, to take a decision and get a majority to pull us out of the coal. But you don't use that opportunity. Then it is natural, as the rapporteur on the matter, to highlight it – that there was an opportunity here. This opportunity was not used, and the climate is behind the cooperation climate. For the centre party, we have always been involved in ethical guidelines for the fund, and it has been a gradual development. We pulled out of the tobacco as we ran, now I think it's important to get out of the coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e213	The Representative for Impact Violence Vedum placed great emphasis on climate and environmental considerations in its contribution and toned down the economic aspects. Then I would like to ask and ask for an explanation of what are the purely climatic differences between investing in coal companies and operating coal mines, as we do at Svalbard. The Lunckeberg mine was approved under the red-green government, and it is estimated that eight million tonnes of coal can be extracted by 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e219	It is not very often that consultations around a Document 8 proposal in Stortinget raise awareness of the other side of the Earth, and that the World Coal Organisation, the coal lobby, chose to take the trip from Australia to our hearing – precisely because they saw the signal force in our proposal. The reason why the proposal is coming now is a joint declaration of will between the Nordic Prime Ministers and President Barack Obama that we should try to have less investment in coal companies over time. We believe that this was a good and correct signal with regard to it. It was obvious that the world’s carbon lobby also made it strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e224	It is nice to say that the Center Party has now received such great care for the climate and the climate argumentation. At the same time, there is a big logical flaw in the reasoning of the representative, Battle Violence Vedum, for a few months' delay in extracting coal cannot be decisive if the result is that one gets a multiple for extracting fossils. If I interpret Battle violence Vedum right, both he and his party agree with the Left in that it must be the goal in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e229	We are voting in favour of the non-binding majority vote. The reason is that we want to get these issues clarified. We have not concluded on which other energy companies we think we might sell ourselves out of, but we see that the investigation that has been started will certainly be able to light it up a little bit. But it's very non-obligatory in its form. What we're sure about is that the most polluting energy source of all, coal, is not part of the solution for the future. That is why we thought it was right to withdraw from clean coal mining companies now. It was such a marginal part of the investment into the Oil Fund that it had no financial risk. Nevertheless, it could send a signal that the climate was the most important, and then we sold ourselves out of the worst source of pollution in fossil energy, and it's coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e234	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e237	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this setting. The investment strategy for the State pension fund abroad is the highest rate of return over time to moderate risk. It's a principle that a broad majority in the Biggest has put themselves behind. Similarly, we gather that the fund should be managed responsibly, and the ambition that all parts of the management of the State pension fund abroad should be in line with leading international practice. The Fund aims to manage our oil and gas revenues for the benefit of future generations. It is not and should not be a tool in foreign policy or in other sectoral policies, just as we have always sold our oil and gas on business principles. And here, too, there's a broad consensus, and it should go on. This does not mean that we as a society are indifferent to where the fund invests, especially in view of the fact that the fund is intended to last for generations. Therefore, ethical guidelines for the Fund were introduced in 2004. An extractive mechanism, ethical criteria and an independent ethics board have been established. We will respect obligations of international law, including human rights. As a result of a broad evaluation, tobacco was proposed for exclusion in 2009. The size joined. The fund has recently sold itself out of 23 palm oil companies as part of its active management, among others. due to illegal logging and environmental damage — wise decisions. Norway’s Bank also became a member of the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2011. It is a project supported by more than 600 international investors, working among others. to improve companies’ reporting on climate change risks. In other words, the state pension fund abroad, the property of the people, is managed wisely and in the long term and in line with important values that the Norwegian society is behind. It is not managed in a vacuum. It is this line that we have a responsibility to continue – a comprehensive and responsible line for a fund that is meant to last forever. Then we also undertake not only to look at tomorrow's markets and surroundings, we must have the ability to look towards a wider horizon. Knowledge leaves no doubt: climate change is man-made. The combustion of fossil fuels is a major source of greenhouse gas CO2 emissions. Coal is in a particular class the source that accounts for the largest emissions. The International Energy Agency believes that the share of oil and gas in the global energy mix may be at present levels between 2030 and 2040, but coal must fall. All 45 pst. of the global energy-related emissions of CO2 are derived from coal and coal consumption is increasing strongly in the emerging economies of the world. This has serious consequences, and that trend must be reversed. Norway and other countries have joined concrete targets to mitigate global climate change. If we are to have a chance to achieve these goals, world emissions from coal must be severely limited in the next decades. There are many ways in which this has to happen, and the way in which the State pension fund invests abroad is not a main strategy. But more and more people see that action is required. In June 2013, President Obama said that the US will stop financing coal-fired power plants abroad. During the summer, the World Bank and the EU Investment Bank announced that they would significantly reduce the funding of new polluting coal projects. The US Export-Import Bank has signaled the same thing. At home in the last year, Groetbrand has moved out of a number of coal companies. Just before the elections last September, Prime Minister Stoltenberg and the other Nordic prime ministers met President Obama in Stockholm. The Joint Declaration of the meeting agreed that countries should endeavour not to finance new coal-fired power stations abroad and to help other countries and multinational companies do the same. How does Norway respond to this objective? A natural follow-up – as the Labour Party sees it – of this statement is that we are asking for a thorough investigation to draw the State pension fund abroad from coal companies. The fund currently holds shares in over 7,000 companies. One overview suggests that about 1 pst. the current capital of the fund is linked to investments in coal companies. The pension fund belongs to the Norwegian people and is one of the world's largest investors. We're going to act as a responsible and long-term investor. We then have a special responsibility to reflect on what is the right investment behaviour. How we choose to manage our wealth is noticed in the world and can be a signal of a shift that is not only desirable but absolutely necessary for us to succeed in climate policy. We have had a thorough hearing, and I thank those who contributed to it. On the basis of this consultation, and based on discussions with the Norwegian Bank, which manages the pension fund, the proposers believe that there is sufficient knowledge today to enable clean coal mining companies to undertake extractions already in the spring’s communication on the State pension fund abroad. This does not mean that they will be withdrawn the day after the notification has been processed, but it would have given the government time to identify the clean coal companies that the fund also today shows an increasing reservation against investing in. What, on the other hand, requires an investigation is the demarcation issue of companies that have coal as part of their activities, and – as the Minister of Finance said in a previous debate on this matter – that engage in many other activities in energy, including in renewable energy and in technology development. Ownership can be a more natural strategy. It requires an investigation. We agree on that, and that is what the proposal is now based on. It is fine for us to support the proposal in the vote on an expert committee to assess the financial risk of exposure to fossil energy – the proposal on which the majority parties have agreed. From our point of view, the professional administrators of the fund are well aware of such risk balances, how the financial risk should be assessed. But external assessment of risk balances does not go against it. However, there is a slightly different debate than that resulting from our proposal, which is justified in terms of climate. I believe that we should not underestimate the signal effect of the actions we are doing with our pension fund. It is internationally recognised. The big, serious actors are looking at what the fund is doing. This was also the message from the coal lobby that flew over half the world to present its views to the Financial Committee at the hearing. I notice that two of the parties that up to spring after their own statements were for an extract from the coal, now have turned around. I assume they're still in favour, but I want to wait for the overall assessment to be made. I respect that agreement with the government has been reached on the majority side, and we also support that investigation. But I believe that here we had the opportunity to get to both sides, namely a thorough investigation of risk balances and the whole complex of the fossil investment profile, but at the same time being able to send a signal now about coal. So this is going to look like a missed opportunity. The Left and Christian People's Party could have met the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens and both got an investigation and also an excerpt already this year, but thus chose to bet on the government parties – for which I have an understanding. I also note that none of those parties were concerned about having a dialogue with the proposers about how the proposal could be followed up, and take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e277	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e280	You could get an extract already this year," said the representative Gahr Støre. At the same time, he said in his post that it should also be a thorough investigation. Everyone sees that it would be unrealistic in the short time available before the announcement comes to the Stortinget. When the representative in his introduction talks a lot about the Workers' Party being behind the mandate, about the predictability and the investment practices that have been in place, I have to say that I am surprised that, having managed this country for eight years and presented the annual reports that we have largely agreed on here in the Stortinget, the investment will now be managed suddenly through representative proposals in the Stortinget. Does the representative Gahr Støre think that it is a predictable and responsible way of managing the oil fund on the part of Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e287	As a representative of big business, I am a little worried to say that what we adopt in this Chamber is not responsible and predictable. I believe that we are actually elected by the people to make long-term decisions. But I have said in previous debates here that we should not manage the State pension fund from this room. We're not going to make individual decisions about companies. We're going to respect and set up a scheme for responsible, long-term investments that we've made. But it was a political development that led to the fund withdrawing from tobacco. It is unreasonable to assume that the fund itself comes up with the idea of managing it. I repeat that I had lived well with the fact that after the processing of the landfill message it could have been a few weeks and perhaps a few months before one was ready to decide to withdraw from the clean coal companies. But the decision that that was the way we could go, we could get together. It could have been anchored in the main message, and then you could take the details afterwards. I have full respect for the fact that an investigation into what is the best impact strategy for companies that are complex and complex requires more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e296	I find it reassuring to hear that the representative Gahr Støre now talks about knowledge being important, and that the Storting should make long-term decisions. But it was not the scheme that lay in the proposal the Workers' Party actually promoted. The Labour Party has now been given the opportunity to go ashore on that proposal and on our proposal, which will use knowledge, which will use an expert group to look at just the problem and risk of future investments in coal and other fossil energy. Then I would like to repeat my question to the representative Gahr Støre: Does he not think that the decisions we make – whether they are in the Storting or anywhere – should have a good knowledge base when we look forward to making long-term decisions, which he himself is concerned with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e303	It's almost an ironic question, because would the representative have expected me to answer no? I answer a loud yes, and I don't know who it is that is on land or on water here in this case. In the proposal I have promoted together with two co-representatives, first of all I have asked for an investigation into this issue. After the hearing, we see with clarity that the marginal investment we have in clean coal companies is possible to clarify based on knowledge and the extensive experience in Norway's Bank Investment Management and make a decision now. So we're going to have a broader investigation of the entire complex. What I'm curious about is where we are in one year, in relation to the Right and the Advance Party, when the conclusion of this investigation comes. Will there be an investigation that will lead them to agree with what all the other parties on the Stortinget have said, namely that, in the case of coal, at least there are good climate policy assessments that we should take a different course. This is going to be really exciting. We will have a lost year on that issue, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e312	In 2009, the oil fund sold itself out of the tobacco industry, and the Norwegian people have so far lost some. 10 B.C.E. kr per. Then you have to look at what you've achieved by the fact that the oil fund was selling out of the tobacco industry. One thing you can see is that marketing to children in the third world has increased after the oil fund sold out. There was something that the oil fund was busy about not to happen. Then my question to the representative Gahr Støre is: can he take an example of good, positive things that have happened because the oil fund was selling out of the tobacco industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e320	This is a good confirmation that the Progress Party believes it is wrong, and I assume that they had a majority, they had bought themselves into tobacco, and there have been a lot of other interesting sectors to go into. The calculation piece doesn't last. Yes, the tobacco stocks that we sold out may have increased correspondingly to that sum, but how Yngve Slyngstad and his skilled employees invested the money they received when they sold out, neither Hageseter nor I know. But what we know is that the fund has increased by several $10 and a hundred billion dollars because the bulk of the population did not agree with the Progress Party on weighting 40/60 shares/debts, but turned to 60/40 shares/debts. So when it comes to what the Norwegian people have got back because of wise investments, I think we're on a safe footing. There has been a strong signal for tobacco: the behaviour in the Third World was in full swing long before the oil fund was sold out. I don't think there's going to be any more marketing for children in the Third World because the oil fund has sold itself out of some shares, but the signal is that responsible investors shouldn't go into tobacco. More and more people are going out of tobacco. This is a long-term job, but the results also — in the long term — come when wise investors make such choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e329	It could be an advantage for the debate to refer to other parties fairly correctly. This applies to both Battle Violence Vedum and now Gahr Støre. I would like to recall last year's debate on the fund, where the Left and Christian People's Party alone stood on the following: ‘These members will therefore assess the financial and climate policy risks involved in SPU being heavily invested in oil and coal companies today.’ This is our position, which, for some reason, both the Workers' Party and the Center Party want to distort. I guess that's because today's point is that the Left and Christian People's Party gets through exactly what we stood for last year. So Gahr Støre says you lose a year. This must be because the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV last year voted in favour of this proposal. So my question is, When did the Workers' Party see the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e341	It was in 1887, and every day since then! Was it a suggestion or a comment? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e348	That was a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e353	It was a note, yes, and not a suggestion. So we haven't voted it down. I am in principle to acquire more knowledge, and I think the proposal on which the parties of government, the Left and the Christian People's Party have agreed is okay. I think it's a little strange, and I'm very much in doubt about how the treatment of the conclusions of it will be, but I have full respect for the fact that it reminds me of the proposal that the Seven promoted last year, and that he is pleased with it. What I mean to have understood – but I'll take it to myself if I've seen it wrong – is that the Christian People's Party has now thought that out of the coal we can go. It's a right decision isolated from the big issue of the entire fossil sector. There I am more in doubt. But if it's the case that the Christian People's Party doesn't have that vision, then I'm going to take it to myself, but I've therefore believed that it was that way, and I also perceived it this way in the social debate in the autumn. When we promoted our proposal, many in the Christian People's Party and Left said "welcome after," but it may be a different attitude. I mean, here you could have gotten both of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e362	Welcome to an investigation, which you have left now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e367	To continue a little where the representative Syversen left off: Had the Labour Party and the representative Gahr Støre meant the same thing on 19 December that he is taking up today, the government had just been given the task of bringing the extraction criteria for coal in the Great Britain message that is now being announced early in April. And even though extracts of pure coal producers will certainly have a great symbolic value, what Gahr Støre now is so busy, after all, is just 0.08 pst. of the fund's management capital. So what's interesting is what the Labour Party thinks it's gonna do when the independent expert selection comes back with extraction criteria -- and not just for coal, but for fossil energy like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e374	I have respect for the knowledge, so I'm not going to conclude this right now. Now I'm going to try to follow up the good spirit by waiting a year for it. But let me just say today that the Workers' Party has not in its programs, or in its papers, taken the attitude that we should out of all fossils. We believe that there are sensible positions to take in oil and gas today, but having an investigation of this – in a total risk balance of where the community of Norway is invested – can make us wiser. But I notice that the Breivik Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed on the investigation with two parties that are against all ideas of extraction, including tobacco, so how this majority looks when we are going to evaluate this matter in a year's time will be very interesting to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e383	The cord shift is over. Before the representative Gahr Støre goes down, I would like to remind you that the proposals No. 1 and 2 have not been taken up, and perhaps the representative Gahr Støre would bring up the two proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e388	Then I take up the two suggestions that are presented in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e393	The starting point for the investment strategy and the mandate for the SPU is to seek the highest possible return in moderate risk and that this return depends on sustainable and economic development over time. This has underlined to us once again today the Workers' Party's speeches, Gahr Støre, that he agrees with us. Then it is a paradox to promote such a proposal as what we are dealing with today, because it is unrealistic to aim to make an extraction of specific investments in the short time ahead of the year's announcement. The fund is a very big player in the world's marketplaces, and the signal that the Norwegian giant would send by adopting such a proposal would be a signal to the world and the value creation we invest in, that our fund will no longer be governed by the institutions that the Storting has adopted and established through many changes by a large majority, and also go over to rule through representational proposals in the Storting. I am amazed, as I also said in the change of lines, because this in many ways violates what the Workers' Party has been doing for many years. It's surprising. Then I'm glad the Workers' Party found that the majority position was a good place to save themselves ashore. There we have reached an agreement, in the Committee's position, on a sound, knowledge-based process in the future, and the governmental parties and the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have underlined that assessments of changes in the investment strategy must advance beyond time, through thorough treatment in government and accumulation, with professional knowledge at the bottom, and then the realistic time will be in a year's time. I perceive that the Workers' Party is also on the run here in terms of time – you talk about weeks, you talk about months – and then we are immediately where we are going to be, with the necessary knowledge acquisition. We believe it is right to pay more attention to issues in investment strategies that affect both the returns and the risk of the fund's resources. Climate change and its impact are such an element in economic risk and the economic risk is also climate risk. This theme has been reported in the annual communications, it has been a topic in the report of the Strategy Council on how to strengthen responsible investment practices, and it is also a theme in the ownership exercise of the Bank of Norway. It is therefore important to assess the risks of our investment in oil and coal companies through research and professional work, especially when this is seen in the context of the significant share of oil in the construction of the fund, and not least as part of Norway’s economy and well-being elsewhere. That is why I believe that our proposal, which is unanimously adopted – perhaps it does not sound this way in the debate here – is important. This is a group of experts to look forward to the next communication, in order to acquire knowledge and advise on how to minimise the risk of investment in coal and petroleum companies. The red-green parties characterize the proposal they're on, as non-obligatory, but they still join it. They say that the Christian People's Party and the Left lack the will to settle and have a low level of ambition in such an important matter. But the Christian People's Party and the Left do not lack the will to settle – they just lack the will to settle with the red-green ones. This is quite another, fortunately, because it would mean voting in favour of a populist political proposal that was to have been investigated and politically adopted by coal companies, without any necessary professional assessment. I am very pleased that the cooperation parties – unlike the red-green – see the importance of acting with a knowledge background and of being aware that over the years and over time we are making ongoing decisions for one of the world's largest funds, and that we are responsible for what position it should have in the international investment environment. In that respect, I believe that it is primarily technical knowledge-based risk assessments that apply – not political impulse actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e414	I think it's a bit striking that the fleet in its post is talking little about the matter itself, but it takes a lot of time to put forward procedural arguments. We also heard the representative Meling in the line change with the case rapporteur earlier today show that Mestad stated in the hearing that it would be more complicated to extract SPU from coal than tobacco. No one denies that there is a demarcation issue that requires further investigation, but both Mestad and Slyngstad also demonstrated very clearly through their posts that pulling the SPU out of clean coal companies will be unproblematic now. I'm recording that the Right is laying on a very problematic line. My question is: if we put aside disagreements about investigation needs, does the Right Support the purpose of this proposal, namely to extract SPU from coal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e423	What we're supporting is a professional investigation around this. Marthinsen anticipates the events, for she wants to conclude. She wants to talk about how Mestad and the Ethics Council, which is an advisory body, problematize boundaries. This is not the case. The issue is whether or not we should send a signal that our handling of the SPU will be professionally thought out and knowledge-based or not. When we are going to make changes, it will be through messages to the Storting, where these assessments have been taken in advance. I see that Marthinsen will not discuss it, but it will be, because they themselves agree to this proposal – it says in the vote. I think it's very wise of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e432	This claim that the Labour Party saves itself ashore by voting in favour of the majority proposal falls on its own unfairness. We are going to vote in favour of the non-binding proposal because we have nothing against getting an external risk-spread assessment. But it is a proposal we are voting for in addition to – not instead – our own proposals. It is not the discussion about risk spreading that we have tried to raise through this proposal. We've tried to raise a discussion about whether SPU should invest in coal on the basis of climate-related ethical grounds. It is a political balance that we should be able to have a political – not a procedural – discussion about. So we don't know what the Right actually thinks about that case. There's a debate that the Right has constantly turned away, and where they've been hiding behind a need for investigation. I am once again trying to ask: does the right support the objective of this proposal to extract SPU from coal for a climate ethical reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e443	We support what we ourselves are for in this setting – as opposed to the Workers' Party, which says that they also vote for their own proposal. But they are also responsible for voting for the majority position. That means they agree with this. I believe that the Workers' Party puts this completely on its head. I repeat once again, for this is the central thing in the matter: we want the Storting to have the necessary knowledge of possible extractions of coal and oil-related companies through an expert group that has knowledge of this, as opposed to representatives in the Stortinget on one sheet – although investigations do not have to be long in order to be knowledgeable. That's the difference between us and the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e452	We don't get an answer, do we?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e457	Both Mestad and Slyngstad categorised the coal companies in a consistent manner during the hearing. It was a very clarifying hearing, and it showed a way, if there is the will of the Storting to withdraw from clean coal mining companies. The two heavy, professional recordings we got from our own organs showed that way. I think it's going to be too easy, as it's said here, that it hasn't been shown a way. It was shown by both Slyngstad and Mestad. They expressed themselves equally in their categorisation. My question to Svein Flötten is: Does the Right believe that the most important thing to focus on is risk spreading or climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e464	This also took Battle Violence Vedum up in its original post, and he says the big difference between the parties here is that we're talking about the economic risk, while the red-green parties are talking about climate policy. No, that's not the difference in this debate. The difference in this debate is that we are talking about both the economic risk and the acquisition of knowledge. But it doesn't want the red-greens to talk about, because they want to conclude. They want to use Mestad in the Council of Ethics and Slyngstad as a witness to the truth that you can do that and that. We've just heard Gahr Støre say that NBIM is just operationalizing and working on these things. They can't give us these advices. We need independent advice, so that we can make decisions that can work over time, that are predictable and not least responsible. [[President clubs]] That's not what comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e469	This is not the first time that it is used as a criticism from the Right against another party that one is too ambitious on behalf of climate, ethical considerations or other. My question to the representative Fleet is simple: can the representative Fleet point to some significant differences in how the Right argues now against the Storting being able to make such a decision that we are considering today, and how the Right in its time argued against ethical guidelines for the Oil Fund, which was also opposed for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e476	Just as with other parties, our positions and attitudes over time will also be moving. There's no doubt about it. I admit it. But I think I dare say that they do not slip as quickly as they do in those parties, especially the Workers' Party, who have proposed this – from the red-green stability that is about following up the management of the fund in the annual notice, to want to steer this through representative proposals in the Stortinget. Right positions will change in all policy areas over time, but we use knowledge before we change our positions. This has not happened in this case with those who have promoted the proposal or to those who are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e483	The question of the impact of the coal on the climate of the earth hardly needs more investigations, which makes it quite obvious what is the effect of investing massively in extracting more coal. It is therefore interesting that the representative fleet – on questions from among others. Marianne Marthinsen of the Workers’ Party – still refusing to clarify whether the Supreme Court’s intention with the majority proposal is to get the pension fund out of the coal, or to find out if it is a good idea to withdraw the pension fund from the coal. There is a big gap between what the Fleet expresses, and the representatives of the Left and Christian People's Party express it. The question to the Fleet is then: Is the presentation by the Left and Christian People's Party of this proposal – which is to get the pension fund out of the coal – wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e491	When I read the comments on this setting from all four parties, I think you've come together well on what you really want with this in the future. You want a good, professional, knowledge-based investigation from expert groups to get this discussed in the 2015 Communication. I don't think the debate or line change has revealed any major differences between these parties. We're completely in agreement where we want to, and what we're going to do now. Then the Stortinget – and all the parties – will have the opportunity to go through this carefully when we get that far. I understand the need for SV, the red-green and not least Rasmus Hansson to make differences between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party. In this case, there are no such differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e496	The Financial Committee has recently examined a draft representative from SV to phase out investments in fossil energy from the State pension fund abroad. One of the proposals contained in the representative proposal was to ask the government to assess whether it would be appropriate to phase out investments in coal, including extraction and electricity production. It is by far the same proposal that is now being put forward and re-examined with this proposal, now from the Labour Party. There is no fasitisation as to whether there is extraction or ownership that best promotes environmental and climate concerns. The assessment has now been that there is no basis for negative filtration from the coal or petroleum company fund. Ownership practices and impacts have been considered as a more effective strategy than extractions to address climate issues and contribute to change. In fact, at least large parts of the world, especially Asia, depend on coal as an energy source. At the same time, fossil fuel combustion is a major source of greenhouse gas CO2 emissions. Coal is in a particular class the source that accounts for the largest emissions. Coal power today covers 40 pst. the need for electricity from the world. 45 pst complete. of the global energy-related emissions of CO2 strains from coal, and carbon consumption is increasing. In fact, Norway is also a major exporter of coal. The tunnel system in Svea North of Svalbard has recently been expanded. In 2012, a new opening – Lunckefjell. This is where the mining company in Great Norwegian is estimated to be able to take out more than 8 million tonnes of coal by 2019. They've invested $12 billion. kr in whole new equipment, infrastructure, road installations and wreckage. In return, Great Norwegian gets five years of coal operation. Daily 10000 tonnes of coal shall be transported out of the mine. Large Norwegian estimates that the coal in Lunckefjell will cause emissions of 5,5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year. 37 pst. of coal exports from Svalbard to Germany will be used for electricity generation. Half of the coal from Svalbard is sold to coal-fired power stations on the European continent. The electricity produced by these European coal-fired power stations will be used, among other things. sold to Norway. This is particularly true in so-called dry years. Then Norway is dependent on being able to import coal power. There is therefore no doubt that Norway, even outside the oil fund, has a heavy commitment within coal. The management of the investment portfolio of the oil fund shall be based on the objective of maximum returns within an acceptable risk. So far, the oil fund has given Norway a good return. How good the returns will be in the future, we don't know, but the more areas that are extracted from the investment capabilities of the oil fund, its more difficult it will be to deliver good returns. In 2009, tobacco was extracted. It has a lost approx. 10 B.C.E. kr. So far, and it's hard to see what we've achieved with it. There is, as I said, no fascination as to whether extraction or owner-management produce the best results in relation to the measurements you want to achieve. The coal industry with which the Committee has met underlines that responsible and serious operations in the coal industry depend on one also having responsible and serious owners. If the oil fund sells out of coal, there will be other buyers for these axes, and they will probably be far less concerned with the environment and climate than Norway and the oil fund are. I have no doubt that those who have made this proposal have good intentions with it, but the image is complex, and therefore it is not certain that extracts will benefit the environment and the climate – perhaps on the contrary. That is why I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus about setting up an expert group to assess these questions, when it comes to both coal and petroleum ovens. That's good. Then we get new knowledge, and when those assessments lead, we'll probably have a much better basis for making good decisions on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e529	It was interesting to hear the representative's warm commitment to coal, because before Christmas, the representative Hagesetter thought that pulling the pension fund out of fossil energy would not make the world a better place. He saw no positive effects or effects – I stress no one – and he compared the proposal to sell out of tobacco, which the representative believes and has repeated today, is a wrong decision. My question is, what has changed since the last time, since the representative today votes to consider an exclusion of coal and petroleum companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e536	What we're doing today is we're putting down an expert group to evaluate these questions. I think it's important that you get good, objective knowledge of these things. That expert group shall take good time to do so, so that one does not receive the urgent treatment provided by the working party. So they're going to spend about a year on this evaluation. Then one shall come back with an assessment of the effects it would have if the oil fund were to sell out of both coal and petroleum. That knowledge I think we can all benefit from getting, and when we get that knowledge, we're going to review it. I hope that the Workers' Party will also do it on the basis of the knowledge that will then lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e541	Here I think there is a need for clarification. Setting up an expert committee must certainly be mandatory – also for the Progress Party. So by voting in favour of that group of experts today, the Advance Party is actually opening up to assessing the exclusion of coal and petroleum companies when knowledge is in place. Is it that the Progress Party can vote in favour of a fossil energy exclusion in a year's time? Or is it that the representative still believes that there is a proposal that will have no positive effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e546	My starting point is that we can't see that it's a good idea to withdraw from coal and petroleum. But then we will set up an expert group to assess this. Even if we put down an expert group, that doesn't mean that no matter what they come up with, we will vote for or against. It is precisely the work and assessment that the expert group comes up with and presents to the Stortinget, which will be decisive for how to vote, for example. shall withdraw from a pure coal-mining company or shall be extended. But we're not locking ourselves into this. We do not do that in any way. We'll evaluate this every now and then. I also thought that all the other parties did – that one has an unbounded position, at least not when one is going to get an assessment and distribution of the theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e551	When you think about what a party really means, it's interesting to read what the party has meant over time. I remember from the first period I sat at Stortinget together with Gjermund Hageseter the following remark, which was long, but which had as its end: ‘The excessive mix of ethics and shops of the Government is increasingly perceived as foreign policy signals’. [[...]] My question to Hagesetter is: Does the Advancement Party still believe that it is wrong to involve ethics when running a store?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e566	We have an ethics board that's going to evaluate this. I can't quite remember the wording in that comment, but I assume he was read correctly. Of course, this is how it was called: interfering with foreign policy in the management of the oil fund is unfortunate. I may feel that some representatives would like to do so. However, the oil fund shall provide the best possible return at an acceptable risk. One shall be careful to interfere with foreign policy. The more areas one excludes when it comes to the ability to invest in the oil fund, the more difficult it would be for the oil fund to provide a good and stable return to the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e571	The new enthusiasm of the Progress Party for the representative of the Hagesets Group calls good objective knowledge from the expert group can, of course, guarantee that the UN Climate Panel can also soon make an impression on the representatives of the Progress Party. That would be a lucky development. As the Progress Party argues today, they shouldn't have any scruples in investing in anything, as long as it yields returns in the Oil Fund. Large investments in landmine production, for example, could be seen, which had given even more money to the Norwegian people. My question to Hagesetter is this: Have I interpreted the representative correctly: is it that the Progress Party will follow the expert group's recommendation in one year, no matter what they come to, even if it was that the group recommends to withdraw from all fossil exposure in SPU?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e581	The progress game doesn't have the habit of locking ourselves in positions – what we're going to do in time, in a year. I think that's also the case when it applies to SV. We've said that we want to put down an expert selection to evaluate these questions. Then we have to get their answers back and do a political treatment of what this group of experts will find out. Then we're going to say what we're doing and what we're doing. Before that, we can't conclude with what will happen in one or two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e586	The representative, Mr Hagesettet – and I believe the representative, Mrs Flätten and many others – has, earlier on in the debate on the oil fund's relation to climate, constantly warned against using the oil fund as what is called a climate policy instrument or a political instrument. At the same time, it's pretty obvious that what you do with 5,000 billion. kr on the world market, or what you don't do about it, has a political effect, whether you like it or not. Now that Hageseter is opening up to make this assessment of the extraction of coal from the oil fund, does he agree that the oil fund must be considered as it is, in fact, also a political instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e591	The oil fund has withdrawn from some areas in which we're not going to be involved. This applies to land mines and some other areas. One should be very careful to use the oil fund as a political instrument. It will have many unfortunate sequences. First of all, we have to look at what we achieve by selling ourselves out of coal. The point is that others want to buy these axes. They may not be so busy with the environment and climate. So this we need to evaluate in a good way. Then we have to fall on it. The more areas you move out of, the harder it will be to maintain a good and stable yield. One is also at risk of the oil fund becoming a political fund, which will cause one to have problems investing in some markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e596	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e599	The rapporteur said that it is always a good idea to see what parties have meant over time. These are really true words in this matter that we are now dealing with. Let me go back one year. Then we will deal with the annual report in this room. Up to now, there has been a consensus that this is the time and the matter we are discussing regarding the longer-term issues related to the fund. Then the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left wrote in a note the following: ‘These members will therefore assess the financial and climate policy risks involved in SPU being heavily invested in oil and coal companies today.’ It was, to say it in line with Støre, a comment that invited to dialogue. It was not even promoted as a proposal. There was a note written to get the red-green parties on this if possible, so that in connection with the message that comes in a few weeks, we could actually have a factual basis for going into this. The red-greens wouldn't join in. They haven't yet been able to explain why they couldn't be around that time. But the reason is probably self-evident. From the Christian People's Party we are very pleased with the final result we have received. We have always said that we want an investigation, both from the climate and the environment perspective and the financial risk, that we take up oil on the one hand and on the other hand use the same crowns to invest in oil companies – a double risk if prices fluctuate. We're getting that through what's going to be decided here today. It's not that it only applies in the financial field, as the red-greens have claimed. No, it is also from a climate and environmental perspective. So now we get a selection of experts, and that would give a completely different assessment than what was in the original proposal of the Workers' Party. The original proposal, which I said was positive, had the effect of asking for an investigation, not just an investigation, but a thorough investigation. This is a departure from the Labour Party in what is now coming from the three previous government parties. Now it just has to be done. But then we have heard that it has now been said that it does not have to happen in the day – it should happen after a few weeks or maybe a few months in the case of pure coal companies. So I have to say I am surprised at the way in which at least the Labour Party has handled this matter. When we discussed SV's proposals a few months ago, the majority of us, all parties except SV, said that ‘Any changes to the Fund’s guidelines shall be made in the annual management communication submitted each spring. The majority would therefore point out that it is unrealistic to ask the government to carry out an in-depth investigation with a view to drawing out the investments of State pension funds abroad by coal companies.’» [[SPU]] It's a glider. And now it's almost slipping back – that you realize you can't do this on the first day. So I'm not impressed at all. And then you can ask yourself why these three parties that ten months ago couldn't even be involved in a comment on having this evaluated – they rejected it blankly – now have a completely different view. I end by reading from a management article in today's business that I think sums this up well: ‘While the Ap is left with a hectic and rescuing demonstration proposal, the Left and the KRF have been implemented for an investigation that will provide a good basis for the decisions to be taken in a year’s time. That time it's worth taking. In the interests of both climate policy and the oil fund.’ Yes, the Christian People's Party has ambitions, but those ambitions should also be accompanied by a minimum of accountability.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e630	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e633	I understand that you in the Christian People's Party are questioning whether we know enough about the effect of the coal on the climate to draw the oil fund out of clean coal companies now, and so you want an investigation. Just before the elections last September, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and the other Nordic prime ministers Barack Obama met in Stockholm. In the joint declaration of the meeting, countries agreed not to finance new coal-fired power plants abroad and to contribute to other countries and investment banks doing the same – as the representative Gahr Støre was involved in his intervention. So they decided this without a thorough investigation, I am familiar with it. Does the Christian People's Party question their knowledge, too, when they could go in for such a statement over the table in Stockholm?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e638	It might surprise me if this happened over the table. The representative Gahr Støre said that the Workers' Party saw the light in 1887, but I understand that the light was seen after meeting Obama just before the election, as he is now being drawn out in all the contexts of this matter. If that was what the representative Johansen is talking about – that one had decided – why was it not mentioned in one word in the draft state budget? It was not a single word that the Workers' Party now intended to withdraw all clean coal companies from the oil fund. At least you should tell the voters if you didn't want to share it with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e645	The Christian People's Party has emphasized the investigation very strongly. The party also had a remark last year about it, and I understand that you are indignant that the Workers' Party did not support it. But so – a year ago, the Christian People's Party wanted an investigation, and the same is what you want now. Let me ask: has nothing happened during the year that enables the Christian People's Party to support the proposal to withdraw the oil fund already now? And what does the Christian People's Party expect from additional knowledge about coal in this investigation that we do not know today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e650	This is incredibly interesting – how to turn things around in your head. It was the Workers' Party, at the Minister of Finance, which in its time put forward a strategy for this room, and agreed to look at the influence of ownership, to exercise the opportunity of ownership – so it was agreed – but then, if it did not, it had to be assessed. So my question is, what is the reason why the Workers' Party just jumps over what you've stood for, and then troubles that the Left and Christian People's Party has kept a consistent line? There are three parties that have to take responsibility for that we do not now have the thorough investigation you asked for in due course – it is the Center Party, it is SV and it is the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e655	It's obvious that we're meeting some very bad conscience or a sore nerve at Hans Olav Syversen. I have almost never experienced the husband of indignation, frustration and bad climate being spread in the hall of the Christian People's Party in this debate, so it's obvious that we're hitting a nerve. And I understand that, because this is probably an example that one is more concerned with the collaboration with the Advancement Party and the Right than with the content of the matter. I also met Trine Skei Grande in a debate, and what she was most concerned about was: now we've been pulling the oil fund out of the coal for eight years, and now we've got the jam to get me a majority – then we vote against. Wife of Frekkas, you finally agree with us. But if you've been so hard to get out of the coal for eight years, why don't you vote for when the opportunity is there? And if the government announces that we're going to get out of the coal? But you don't want that, because you're more concerned with getting some non-obligatory investigations, and if you read the statement, the financial risk is the emphasis, not the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e670	‘Frekkaser’ is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e673	Yes, I'm indignant, because I don't think that's a defamatory argument. And the representative of Battle Violence Vedum knows that it's something I'm being indignant about, when I feel that the argumentation is not despicable. First of all, you don't even want to refer correctly to what we've stood for and what we stand for. It's a consistent line in what we've stood for, and now it's getting a majority for – and then later it's also the representative Battle Violence Vedum as if we're responsible for something other than what we've done. So that's absolutely correct -- then I'm indignant, because I think it's inappropriate in a debate that's important, and where we're going to get a really big deal of evidence to see how we're going to manage our oil fund. We've definitely done it in the past, and we've agreed that this is what we do in connection with the messages. We have agreed that we want a thorough investigation. Then come the red-green and are indignant that we stand firm for what we've always meant. No thanks, I won't let myself in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e682	I share with the representative Syversen's commitment to back-up reasoning. Therefore, I just want to make it clear in this line that it is such that the SV in Mode 96 S also determines: ‘This member will underline the need for a thorough review of this theme in the context of the annual management communication on the State pension fund.’;» SV is as firm as anyone else that it is in connection with the notification that these matters should be dealt with. We're just going to write it at some other place in the setting. I'm not going to put myself in the polemics between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, but I want us to be quoted correctly in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e692	I referred to what was the majority position of the committee. I take note of it, of course, if the SV has meant anything else in the setting. It is quite clear that I trust what the representative Valen says.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e697	We are now receiving a professional investigation as a basis for a new discussion on whether the pension fund should be withdrawn from coal in one year's time. From the Right and the Progressive Party, we have heard clearly in this debate what they have said all along, that they are extremely sceptical about withdrawing the pension fund from the coal. The question is, then, to try to understand: what is the Christian People's Party and the Left actually achieved? Do they have any signs that the Right Party and the Advance Party have any plans to change their mind on this issue during the coming year and in the coming debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e704	I hear what both the representative Fleet and the representative Hagesetter say, namely that they will listen to the advice of the expert group. It means to me that then you don't go in with a closed mind, but with an open mind and are willing to reconsider any positions you have had until this day, by getting a different basis of fact. I think it serves the Right and the Advance Party to the credit that it has also agreed that there is an independent expert committee to make these assessments, related to both the ownership management – what we can achieve through it – and any criteria for extraction, which we know will be a really great job for such a sample. I take them by the word, that they go into this with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e716	The oil fund is an ingenious tool to help future generations get the same benefit from the oil wealth we have today. The two main threats to the fund are climate and financial. To avoid a serious climate crisis – and we should – capital must be moved from fossil to renewable sources. Combined with the fact that the Norwegian economy is highly oil dependent, it is in Norway’s interest to reduce the investments made by the oil fund in coal, oil and gas. It should take place in a combination of hall and active ownership practice. Therefore, the Left is very pleased that we, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right have agreed that both the financial and climate risks involved in SPU being heavily invested in oil and coal companies are to be thoroughly addressed. The decision we are making today, goes even further than the Left and Christian People's Party last proposed a similar proposal, 19 December. Now there is an independent expert group to look at the issues and advise – it should not just be an internal government assessment. Then I record that both the Labour Party and the Center Party call an independent expert group ‘incommitant’ and have much greater confidence in government spending. Better proof than that can hardly be given to Minister of Finance Jensen and the rest of the College of Government. In addition, next spring, in the context of the SPU’s monitoring message, Stortinget will have the basis for creating an own mandate within renewable energy. The left is clear that the objective is for the SPU to liquidate investments in both coal companies and oil-related companies. The score is not 'out of coal', but to make the community less dependent on fossil sources of income, in the broadest sense possible. We have always been aware that we have greater ambitions to use SPU as an environmental and climate hub, and so ensure future returns than just extracts of coal – which, said in parentheses, in the broad context is quite insignificant, i.e. less than 0,08 pst. of the investments of the fund. As a shareholder, a company is also supported by a company that owns. For the Left, there is probably an argument that SPU cannot be a shareholder in companies that have a future service associated with a failed climate policy. When managing SV's almost identical Document 8 proposal 19 December, a principle was crammed upon a proposal from the case-speaker at the time, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, that all changes in the investment portfolio of SPU take place in connection with Storting's annual treatment of the management of SPU in the previous year. Understood: if the investment strategy of the SPU, the largest institutional investor in the world, needs to be thoroughly assessed. The leftmost heart supports such a principle before New Year's Eve. We are not directly weakened in the belief that this is at least as important as three months — and some media redundancies about the fund's first investment in unlisted axles — later. So we note that the cork of the saxor, his party or the Workers' Party anymore shares that over-interpretation. Applying the fund's extracts from entire industries over the night, as they are now mentioned, is at best populist and short-sighted – at worst directly irresponsible. I say hello – finally – of course welcome the fact that the same batches now have changed their view of getting oil and gas extracted, as well as coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e737	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e740	Still, there is a moment until the debate is over. I have experienced earlier that the Left has turned around in the hall. I remember one thing in particular – it might be the only one. This was the case with the Directorate of Economic Management – 13 December last year – where one first gave praise to the Left for not participating in the government's centralisation. But then the Left turned and secured the majority of the government. I understand that it is demanding when you have a cooperation agreement – so that is said – but now I hope for a new turnaround, with the opposite sign, and that today the Left votes for what I perceive is Left's policy. Is it too much to expect? That's my first question. What are the left-to-right expectations of the final outcome? When we hear the views of the Party of Advancement put forward today, would not the Left feel reassured to have a decision that the Red-Greens are in favour of, at the bottom of the further process?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e748	The left is very pleased with – as I just said from the Chair – that we are now in the hands of the Christian People's Party and the Government Party on a proposal that goes significantly beyond what is contained in the Workers' Party's Document 8. We also have great expectations for the selection of experts. It comes with factual evidence that supports what has been held by our Left all the time, that the Fund should be drawn out in favour, and that one exercises more active ownership with regard to fossil energy than has been the case at present. As my co-representative Syversen said instead, there is a great honour for the stalls that the Right and the Advance Party have expressed from the Chair today; not to have a dogmatic hold on what comes from the expert selection, and to wait for it – contrary to what I believe the party to the questioner has actually given a signal from the same spokesman today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e755	I would first like to make it clear, in the name of exasperation – which many have been concerned about – that there is unanimous support for the non-obligatory, independent expert group on which there is a proposal today. I still don't fully understand the representative from the Left, because today it could have been both Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve at once for the Left. One could have been passed on to an expert group to assess fossil energy exclusion, for which all vote. In addition, one could withdraw the pension fund from coal companies this year, which I understand at least that the Left has expressed its warm support for. Can the representative clarify why the Left is unable to vote in favour of both of the proposals they have expressed that they are in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e762	Again, it is tempting to put the question back again. If the representative had meant the same thing on 19 December as the representative and his party had come to an end today, we would have had this arrangement, so that we had a basis for decision in connection with the SPU's notification today. As the case is now, we are very pleased that we have been given a proposal for a decision in this Chamber with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party. Honor also be the Labour Party and the Center Party to support its integrity, that it is now a collusion that makes a decision against which it was in fact plural – with the Labour Party and the Center Party at its head – December 19, 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e769	It makes sense that the Progress Party, which is not particularly concerned with the climate – they may now recognise that there are man-made climate change – does not want to vote to withdraw the oil fund from coal in the context of the consideration of the Spring communication on the State pension fund abroad, which is this proposal. But my question to Terje Breivik, who represents a party I thought was concerned with climate – that is, I still think – is: What is the climate-related reason why the Left does not want us to give a signal when treating the State pension fund abroad that we are going to withdraw from the coal this spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e776	The reason for climate change is that when we apply to the proposal that we are now making a co-congratulation, we get a proposal that goes considerably beyond the possibility of making an extract from coal. Now we also have an independent assessment of the climate risk associated with our exposure to other fossil energies. In addition, as I have said to the representative of the Battle of Vedum in many debates in the last weeks, a few months' postponement of coal extraction, in the worst case until April 2015 – the majority of this room does not change – since there is no decisive significance given that there is also a decisive basis for establishing a multiple to go even further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e781	The representative Breivik says in his statement both that the Left clearly wants to withdraw the Pension Fund from the coal, and – I quote about that – that pulling the Pension Fund out of the coal now at best will be populist and, in the worst case, irresponsible. So the question is, is it to understand that if, for some reason, the expert group now set up by the majority makes a recommendation not to withdraw the Pension Fund from the coal, do we have to be prepared that the Left turns and does not want to draw the State pension fund abroad out of coal and fossil?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e786	Once again, it is tempting to turn the question back a little bit: how does the representative Hansson market believe would react if this room were to take a decision overnight on such significant, large funds on behalf of the Norwegian community and the value loss in it? It is one of the most important reasons why when we are set to manage such large values, it should be done with a minimum of accountability in having a decision base and a time process behind that type of decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e791	I got a question, can I answer it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e796	No, you can't, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e799	President, of course – on two occasions, the representative will return the question to the questioner. But I want to follow up on the question asked by the representative Hansson. This independent selection we all now agree to reduce, what will be the importance of the proposals they promote? See that you can read that selection quite unanimously or at least hard on that they're against going out of coal? We have to weigh it, of course, but how does the representative Breivik think that the Left has intended to deal with this independent sample? After all, this is the seventh and last responsibility of the Stortinget, which we have as politicians, so what is he putting in his hands to the sample? The representative says that the majority in this hall does not change. Well, we've seen some variation on that now. But the majority he is now very pleased to belong to, with the Advancement Party and the Right, does he expect that through the investigation it will change, so that the Left gets them into the policy for which the Left really is for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e808	Of course, the left has great faith that the expert selection will come up with recommendations that will match the Left all the time have meant and said and trusted. What's amazing when we're going to deal with this matter until next year is that it's in connection with the big business message about the management of the SPU. This means that all parties in this room are able to make the same independent assessments and vote on a self-contained basis, completely independent of what the Left and Christian People's Party may mean. It also applies to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e814	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e817	In many ways, this debate is Stortinget's worst. In order for this debate to go as expected, it is necessary that all the figures for all the parties should be a little less. The right must act as if it makes a special difference to them whether SPU is invested in coal or not at all. The working party must pretend to have been very concerned about the exposure of the oil fund to coal for a long time. The Christian People's Party and the Left must pretend that they are absolutely sure that the investigation they have negotiated will lead to something in a year's time. The party of progress must pretend to be the least interested in climate, and I have to pretend that I'm confused with the Christian People's Party and the Left, who make a majority with the Right and the Advance Party today instead of being involved in pulling the oil fund out of the coal. But I'm not bewildered. Today I just don't want to be in any such acting, because the fact is I'm getting a little tired. We could get a majority to withdraw from the coal today if games, positioning and horse trading had been less important, if the Christian People's Party and the Left had put less emphasis on loyalty to the government, but also if the Workers' Party from the beginning would say that they were ready to provide the Christian People's Party and the Left with an investigation of extraction from all fossil energy. I understand well the position of the Left and Christian People's Party. They have done a good job in negotiations with the Right and especially the Advance Party. For many years, Norwegian policy has worked so that a few small, few parties have had to fight for the environment with far larger coalition partners. As a result, responsibility has also been placed on the small parties. The squeak when not enough happens gets the small parties. The small batches are referred to as attacking each other for what they have not received. That is not what I intend to do, because it has led to the fact that the large fossil block parties in Norwegian politics have been freed for many decades, and even reaped the brunt of their efforts for the environment since their expectations have rightly been so low. Every little thing done for the climate in Norwegian politics in the last twenty years has been fought by small environmental parties. The electricity policy, the rainforest billions, the doubling of investments in rail, the increase in the CO2 charge on Norwegian base last year, the rush time charge in my hometown, Trondheim, the phasing out of oil fires, Transnova, Enova, etc. It's the Christian People's Party, it's the Left, it's the SV and sometimes the Center Party that's been in charge of all of these matters and got through to them. Only when the big parties of sincere commitment decide to join and act can we really get an impact on the climate revolution we need. I don't intend to use one more calorie on polemics with Hans Olav Syversen or Terje Breivik or others who share SV's sincere commitment to the climate. Thus, it is certainly tempting to attack the Workers' Party. They have never had a problem with investments in coal before. But life is too short, and the debate here is too long. I think it is fantastic that the Workers' Party has promoted the proposal they have made, and now opens up a clearer mandate for SPU in the service of the environment. There's a chance that should be apprehensive, not arrested for driving polemics against the Workers' Party from the pulpit here because they haven't meant it before. In fact, the Workers' Party is not yet ready to support SV's proposal to prepare extractions not only from coal but also oil and gas, but the logic underlying the good proposal of the Workers' Party will naturally lead us to stop investing in oil and gas. That's where the big money is. Extracting coal will never be sufficient to stop the destruction of the earth's climate. All those concerned with climate and sustainable development, and all those concerned with the responsible and forward-looking management of our oil wealth, should seize the opportunity, congratulate the Workers' Party on having made this proposal and vote in favour of it becoming a majority in the Chamber. The working party has taken the step and turned around in a matter that is important for the climate. The Right Party and the Advance Party should swallow their pride, end up with the fog talk and follow. They could need that. Not on one point has the new government given priority to the environment over other interests. The Christian People's Party and the Left's road choices today are not incomprehensible. They have a cooperation agreement that weighs heavily in day-to-day policy. But it is difficult not to think of the previous statements that they will vote for what they are for, regardless of who is promoting the proposal. Today, the Storting chooses to investigate rather than act. This is not the first time an environmental proposal ends in an investigation. But let's agree and let's hope that's the last time. Let us hope that we do not depend on Siv Jensen's goodwill when the matter is discussed again next year. It's a sad notion we see today when what's really a huge majority for forward-looking and climate-friendly policies becomes a most uncertain future gain. I want to address the SV's proposal. SV is ready to take decisions in this room to allow extraction – not only from coal but also from oil and gas – this year. It is a political issue for which all parties concerned should vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e837	The representative Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e842	In the setting, the representative Serigstad Valen for SV wrote in his own comments: ‘A sustainable and real solution to the climate problem requires oil and gas producing countries that Norway recognises that oil and gas are also part of the problem.’ The representative Serigstad Valen and SV believe that: ‘for a long time, the political majority in Norway has shown a lack of recognition in the design of domestic and foreign climate policies’. I see this as a rather rambling criticism of the ruling political majority in the last eight years, of which SV was part. Perhaps the representative Serigstad Valen, without pretending that, could elaborate on how that recognition was expressed in his own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e857	Now I just made a long post about how meaningless this kind of polemics is. The answer to the question from the representative Nordby Lunde is simply that she can take a look at all my statements and media performances for the three years I was an environmental spokesman for SV. Now Nordby Lunde is doing exactly what I've been talking about: now the Right, the Advance Party and the Labour Party, the three major fossil parties in Norway, for responsibility, while I'm supposed to sit and argue with the Christian People's Party and the Left about who's the best. I don't intend to be on that, and at least not on the premises of a party that has zero – I mean zero! – credibility in the climate field, and as recently as two years ago, proposals were made here in the Chamber to build new gaseous power plants in Norway without cleaning. There is a debate with premise I am not interested in being in, because it stands in the way of proper climate decisions being taken here in the Chamber. And there's the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party just as guilty.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e862	I understand that the representative Serigstad Valen does not want to take responsibility for the eight years they themselves were in government. The proposals state that the State pension fund should be withdrawn from fossil corporations. I wonder if SV really wants us to also get out of Statoil?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e867	First, I would like to take responsibility for the rainforest billions, for the climate communication and all the good measures we put forward there, for the doubling of investment in the railways, etc. What I am not prepared to take responsibility for is the former lack of power from large parties, of which I am not a member. So I have to refer to the previous answer. As far as Statoil is concerned, it's not like the SPU is invested in Statoil, but some of the point here is that if a person makes a lot of money on oil and gas production, it's a bad idea to invest the money a servant makes, in new oil and gas production. Then the risk doubles and makes the world market more vulnerable. That's why it makes more sense to withdraw from oil and gas if one is an oil and gas producing nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e874	Coal is currently 19.5 pst. the supply of energy in the world. Coal is particularly important for China, India and other countries, which need economic growth and increased wealth levels. My question to the SV representative is: what happens to poverty in a world whose coal as a source of energy is phased out globally before reasonable and good alternatives are obtained?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e881	The answer is that poverty and distress in the world will be multiplied if we do not quickly enough to stop using coal as an energy source, for the simple reason that it is the countries with the poorest population and with the greatest challenges that will also be hit hardest by climate change. It is only a much more comprehensive commitment to renewable energy that can ensure that the world's population as a whole benefits from the wealth we create, and can ensure that our grandchildren can also live in such a world and not in a world characterized by storm, lost biodiversity and food shortages.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e886	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e889	I have to say hello from Dolly Talbott. She is a figure for the Australian indigenous group of gomoroi, and, as most in the room know, the indigenous peoples of Australia have been subjected to serious assaults for hundreds of years. Now the Gomorrahs are hit by a new coal mine in Maules Creek. It will destroy traditional land, and it will destroy great natural values. State pension funds abroad invest in this mine. It extracts the coal that all Norwegian climate rhetoric claims to be the worst enemy of the climate. Talbott asks me to ask the Norwegian Storing: If Maules Creek were in their country, would you have wanted that coal mine? The globe is heading for irresponsible heating, and Norway’s oil dependence is increasing. We are well behind the modest targets set by the majority of population in greenhouse gas emissions, and if the Storting will change these developments, we need to adopt more binding climate policies in a number of areas. For this reason, the Green Party has today proposed to stop the allocation of new blocks at the 23rd concession round and to withdraw Statoil from tar sands. Already in the autumn's plenary debate, we proposed to draw State pension funds abroad from coal and tar sands, step down exposure to other fossil energies and increase investment in infrastructure and energy. In addition, Norway has a global instrument, namely the State pension fund abroad. So far, it has been almost unisony mantra that the State pension fund abroad is not a climate policy instrument. It's repeated here today, but of course it's not right. Investing several thousand billion kroner in the international stock market has a climate policy effect – the question is just: which? Therefore, there is an eco-labelling day when the Stortinget is debating climate action through the State pension fund abroad today. There is a great difference between the proposals we are debating. Both the SV's and the Workers' Party's proposals address the crucial question: yes or no to allow the oil fund to invest in coal. The proposal of the Workers' Party ensures a quick, but concrete start, and an investigation with a clear aim of finding ways of withdrawing the Pension Fund from companies with large coal-based activities. The proposal commits, and commitment is the most endangered phenomenon in Norwegian climate policy today. The proposal for a decision by the Parties to the Cooperation Party does the opposite. Nominating an expert group as: ‘shall assess whether the exclusion of coal and petroleum companies appears to be a more effective strategy than ownership’. It means not to decide, that means not to take action, that means not to commit. The whole debate will have to start again when the investigation comes in a year. The Right Party and the Advance Party are thus given the credit for accepting that the issue of State pension fund foreign investment in coal is to be assessed and for having announced a certain mandate for pension fund investments in renewable energy and infrastructure. The Left and Christian People's Party is getting more honor for having got the Right and Advance Party on this. But even the Left and Christian People's Party have never previously expressed the need for expert help to know what they think about the Pension Fund's investments in coal. Both have long signaled a sensible environmental and ethics-based approach to extraction. We do not ask for peer reviews to tell us whether it is effective for the Pension Fund to invest in landmines, child labour and nuclear weapons. We do not ask experts to assess how much money we can make on investing in drugs and prostitution. The size has to be able to decide for ourselves what we want to invest our pension funds in, and whether we want to invest them in the earth's biggest climate problem, namely coal. It is not so often that the world's eyes are aimed at debates in the Norwegian Grand Prix, but today is therefore an exception, even if it is shattered in the hall. The international coal lobby has already been here, one's errand, to get the finance committee from recommending extractions of coal, large financial institutions and media waiting for the signal from the owners of the world's largest investment fund, and all international and Norwegian environmental organisations are asking us to vote to start extractions of coal now. And the Gomorrah people in New South Wales are asking us not to make any money on a mine that destroys their remaining traditional areas. The Green Party will vote in favour of the proposals of the Labour Party, the SVs and the Centre Party and the SV's proposals because they provide the most concrete and committed climate and environmental policies, and then we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the cooperation parties for decisions because at least they keep the matter on the agenda, and that is better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e919	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e922	I appreciated the tone of the post. It was a constructive approach. Then I just get – I think for the third time today – to explain that the view of the Christian People's Party has been consistent. We've asked for an investigation. We did that under the red-green government, and we stand by it now because we believe it is the right form, when we are going to change an instrument as important as the Pension Fund is, for Norway. Then we have clear climate objectives that have also been expressed in the setting, including: a climate mandate of its own, and not least investments in poor countries that come on the agenda at a government change. But my question is, where does the representative Hansson disagree with – what do we say – the framework for the entire management of the oil fund, as it stands today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e931	It was a bit of a question, but the main answer is that the oil fund is today small schizophrenic because it should presumptuously not be a political instrument, but is already highly political and ethically based, drawing from a number of areas defined by the Storting – to a large extent without long and complicated technical investigations, but on an ethical, moral and political basis. But then the climate – and to a certain extent the environment – remains like an undefined area where we do not take an ethical position. And that ethical point of view, I believe, is that the Christian People's Party and the Left have had and should also show and vote in accordance with today's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e936	Thanks for the answer. It's a very interesting question to what extent the fund, which I might now perceive that Rasmus Hansson is involved, is going to be one – and it's almost under pressure – political and foreign policy instrument in the broad political picture of Norwegian policy, which is, therefore, a bit across what a very large majority here have put on the basis so far. So I just want to clarify – fundamentally – whether the Greens believe that the fund as such should be used politically – in so far as both foreign policy and, for example, the environment are concerned. in this context, climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e943	The answer is a roaring yes! As I have repeated several times in this Chamber in the short time I have been here, it is a rather perceptive paradox that we have a kind of majority political consensus that the Pension Fund is not a climate policy or a political instrument. What is it then – to claim that investing such a terrible amount of money in everything between heaven and earth in the world market does not have a political impact? This is a form of political adjective that is completely meaningless, and if we in the Greens/Greens/European Greens can help to overcome this, we are proud and happy about it. And I believe that this debate is one of the good opportunities to get out of the fog and into the fact that we have to decide what kind of policy we want the oil fund to promote – not play that it does not promote politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e948	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e951	There is broad political outreach on the broad lines of government of the State pension fund abroad, SPU. The SPU is managed on the basis of a measure of maximum returns within moderate risk. The financial objective which has been established since the Fund was set up should remain firm. The management of the Fund shall not be an instrument of environmental or foreign policy. We have to be in order that in other countries, in which we want to invest, we follow and interpret the debate we hold as the owner of the fund. Through observation and exclusion guidelines, we have chosen to have certain ethical constraints on which companies the fund can invest. This is part of the framework for the SPU and the financial objective is to be achieved within it and the other management constraints resulting from the mandate and other constraints. Our responsibility for all of us, shared pension savings, is a heavy fiscal responsibility for our generation. The starting point for the share investments in SPU is that the fund owns a small proportion of the world stock market. In this way, we can over time expect a return and risk in line with developments in the world stock market. In general, there should be serious reasons to deviate from this strategy. Changes we make to the investment strategy for the fund are based on thorough professional investigations and a broad anchoring in Stortinget. That is why I am very pleased with both the position of the Financial Committee on setting up an expert group and the broad support this proposal seems to be receiving. The question of the appropriate instrument for dealing with climate risks in coal and petroleum companies was considered when the ethical guidelines were established. But it's been a while. That's why it's time to ask a group of experts to look at this again. I look forward to receiving the group's report once during the autumn and coming back to Stortinget with broad assessments of this when we present the annual management message for next year. Asking something more now about what the report of this group will contain will quickly taste of the preliminary conclusion, and that's exactly what we've been trying to avoid in this case. In a few weeks, the government will present the annual report on the management of the State pension fund abroad. Therefore, today is not the day to bring a lot of other news to the square. Let me just repeat what my starting point in this case has been: I believe that a long-term investor like SPU should follow specific developments that may have the potential to influence the return of the fund in the long term. Norway’s Bank already has attention to this in its ownership exercise, and that is good. The Ministry has previously provided analyses of impacts on the returns and risks of climate change. It's natural that we're also working in the future to get a better understanding of how, among other things. climate change can affect SPU’s returns and risks. Searchlights on this issue and contributions to research are otherwise fully in line with the recommendation we received from the SPU Strategy Council. The Council recommends that the Fund initiate and support independent research in order to increase understanding of the factors that may affect the values of the Fund. We have succeeded in building up a good system for dealing with the oil revenues that has gained recognition internationally. Several governments and magnifications have contributed to this. Now we are asking – to say the least, this tradition of faith – once again a group of experts for an in-depth assessment of a comprehensive theme. So the government doesn't get away with difficult questions, and we don't put them off for one or two major periods either. Overall, I think that the financial committee's position promises good for the further management of the Pension Fund. I look forward to the next milestone in this work: the presentation of the annual paper on the fund that comes just before Easter. Over time, the size has had a tradition of emphasising broad consensus on important road choices for the management of the fund. It has contributed to a robust strategy that has persisted in periods when other funds have had to reverse their strategies in response to unrest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e970	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e973	I think the Minister of Finance gave a good review of what is the mission that is now ahead of this independent expert group, which is a total increase behind it. But it might be interesting to get the Minister of Finance to reason on the concept she used, namely ‘heavy reasons’ – that there should be serious reasons for changing the investment profile, portfolios and models of the fund. What are the serious reasons why the Progress Party and the Government have joined this proposal, prepared the proposal and obtained a majority in favour of it? Is there risk exposure to a country that has oil and gas resources and a large fund, or is it the climate impact of the investments that weigh in the heavy-weight grounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e980	The most serious reason why it is important to carry out thorough professional investigations and analyses before making changes in the management of the fund is the main ambition of the State pension fund abroad, namely to manage the Norwegian people's pension money in such a way that it generates good returns over time. This is precisely why the Fund should not be a tool for ongoing foreign policy issues or for ongoing climate and environmental policy issues. That's because we're going to have a consistent, predictable and credible line in what the fund invests in. If it is to be amended, it shall be done as it has always done, through thorough professional investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e985	It was a useful clarification and clarification that the weighty reasons are to ensure good returns over time. As I said in my post today, we agree on that. I feel that there is a tension between the Christian People's Party and the Left's motivation for its proposal for a thorough investigation and what the Minister of Finance here says is his motivation. It is saddened by the proposal here, which has interesting contradictions in it, but we shall look at it when the conclusions of that proposal arrive. Then it might be interesting to ask a question about the proposal that the representative Hagesetter is constantly addressing, this misguided approach to withdrawing from tobacco. I have asked the Minister of Finance in the past whether she agrees with the decision that was then taken. Would she think that the extract, since she went in to reverse it, also makes sense to ensure good returns over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e995	First of all, I don't feel that there's any tension with the majority consensus in the Stortinge today. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left have very well explained the position they have had today, which they also had last year, and which they have had for a long time, namely a desire to investigate the consequences of something before any decision is taken. As I said in my post, the government parties do not conclude on this issue until we know the professional recommendations that had to come about this. It has also been – I think – the line of the Workers' Party. I think it's a little bit more unclear what is the Labour Party line now. But in view of all the debates on extractions, we know that we are running a risk of a lower return on Norwegian people's pension money. That's why I think it's important that we think carefully before making decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1000	When we see how frustrated the Progress Party has been about what they call the big loss by withdrawing from tobacco, it is a little difficult to believe that the Progress Party has a very open attitude to what to do about coal and the State pension fund abroad once the investigation is completed next year. But I can choose to believe the Minister of Finance, and then the question is: Is the Progress Party willing to listen as much to other independent expert groups, more specifically the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, which is one of the largest and most diverse expert groups in the world? Will the Progress Party also base its policy on recommendations from this group in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1005	This is primarily a debate on how we manage the Norwegian people's pension money. It's a question I'm taking very seriously, because it's about how both the generation that lives today, and the generations that come after us, are going to benefit from a great fortune that we succeed in retrieving. Then it's about trying to maximize the return on that money. Then you can discuss a wide range of different climate and environmental policy issues, but I think that it belongs generally in different debate contexts than when we discuss the long-term management of the fund. So I'm recording that there's now a majority in Stortinget to put down an expert selection. I'm glad, because that means that we can get a thorough review and assessment of how possible extracts will affect the management of the fund. I think that's information we need to have before we make new decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1012	I did not get an answer to what I asked for, and I suspect that if I ask again, I will still not get an answer as to whether the Progress Party will in future base the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on its political choices, so I will try to ask for something else. On the basis of the answer from the Minister of Finance, I interpret it as meaning that the Progress Party believes that the return to the Fund is most important in almost every context. This may also indicate the criticism that we withdrew from tobacco. That's why I want to ask the Minister of Finance the question, when is it no longer okay? What kind of consequences of the money we make is the Minister of Finance not willing to live with? How serious must our activities abroad have for climate, environment, workers’ or human rights in order for the Progress Party to be willing to put its foot down? I ask because the Progress Party has previously impressed with, for example, withdrawing investment from companies on occupied land in Palestine.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1019	The Progress Party has always supported proposals that address issues on which we do not have enough knowledge and competence. And we're still going to do that. So I think having good ethical guidelines for managing the fund is good. But I also believe that when the Storting chooses to make changes to it, it should be thoroughly reviewed and evaluated, so that it discloses all possible consequences of making changes. I think that's the only responsibility given what is the overall goal of the SPU, namely to manage the Norwegian people's pension money in such a way that it gives more returns from one year to the next.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1026	The Minister of Finance once again stresses that the State pension fund abroad should not be a political instrument. To help me understand this assessment a little better, I wonder: Is it not a health policy measure when the State pension fund abroad refrains from investing in tobacco? Is it not a social policy measure when the State pension fund abroad refrains from investing in child labour? Is it not humanitarian and humanitarian policy to refrain from investing in landmines? And, in order to land in this debate we are now in: does it not have a bearing on climate policy whether the State pension fund abroad invests much or little in oil and – above all – in coal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1031	I think I should remind the representative Hansson that precisely because the world's eyes are facing Norway when there are discussions about the management of the State pension fund, that is the best proof of how important it is to have a long-term and predictable management strategy for the fund. It is a large fund whose main purpose is to provide a good return on Norwegian people's pension money. That's the overall goal of the SPU. So it is possible that the Green Party believes that we should change the governance strategy as the debate changes and new, interesting issues arise, either in the foreign policy or environmental policy debate. I disagree. I think it would be a very risky strategy to manage Norwegian people's pension money. Therefore, it is wise to address questions carefully before the Stortinget takes new decisions, based on a broad analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1038	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1041	Earlier this week I met some central representatives from the government party on the right. These people were very busy telling me that the case of the pension fund out of coal companies we would lose the jam so it sang – and if we had thought that there was a majority for that proposal, it was simply embarrassing, they thought. At the risk that there are thoughts and opinions more in the government parties have, I believe it is in place to clarify a few things here today. Firstly, the Labour Party did not promote this proposal for a representative because we wanted to defeat the government. Nor has the proposal been promoted as part of a larger plan to sell more Norwegian oil and gas, which some conspiracy theorists have suggested. This proposal for a representative was promoted because we are behind the policy of the proposal. It might sound unique, but it's actually true. Since the establishment of the State Petroleum Fund in 1996, the Workers' Party has provided for a gradual development of the responsible investment practice. We were there when the Ethics Council was established in 2004. We were then there an excluded class weapon, nuclear weapons and landmines. We were then there an excluded tobacco company in 2009. We were there when the environmental mandates were created a few years ago. Therefore, before Christmas we promoted proposals to exclude coal companies, because we thought it was the right next step to take in this development. And in the name of backwardness, it's this step-by-step evolution that has just characterized the main lines of the fund. So why exactly this proposal about coal? Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. The pension fund is owned by the Norwegian people, and as a society we should not be indifferent to how the fund invests, especially in view of the fact that the fund is intended to last for generations. At the same time, Norway has agreed to reach the two-degree target. If we are to be able to achieve these objectives, world coal emissions must be severely limited in the next decades – according to estimates from the International Energy Agency. Coal is in a particular class the source that accounts for the largest emissions, and environmental organisations were at the hearing we had, making it clear that coal is the right place to start. So it's obviously also hard for someone to understand that this proposal came this fall. But there's not a suggestion taken out of the loose air. More and more people see that action to combat climate change is required. This has been part of an international trend. Secondly, it is not the Workers' Party that is losing here today – it is the environment that loses. Today could be historic. One could set up an expert group and one could start the real action to exclude coal companies. Unfortunately, given that today's Left and Christian People's Party is voting against the proposal they have expressed that they support, I have to ask questions about the will of the Left and Christian People's Party to contribute to good solutions, there are – and especially good climate solutions. But I'll choose to look forward. I hope the will for dialogue gets bigger at both the Left and the Christian People's Party and at the government parties when the Stortinget is presented with the paper on the pension fund in April. The councils were in their posts very concerned with the broad support. Governments have also announced a comprehensive communication to assess many aspects of the management of the Fund. It should then be an objective to bring together the broadest possible majority behind the direction to be taken by the management of the Fund. There will of course be some inequalities, but I hope that there can still be broad political outreach on the main lines of government of the State pension fund abroad – even when the country has now received a new government. Our door is at least open. I hope the will for dialogue is actually present.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1064	Norway is a significant player, including in a global context, in energy production, especially in oil and gas. We have large government interests directly in the industry, and we are reaping significant income from this sector – tax credits, direct income from the state’s holdings on the base, and this is through dividends in companies where the country also holds holdings, mainly Statoil. In total, this represents large revenues to the country. A large proportion of our gross domestic product comes from energy-related activity revenues. That means that as a nation, we are very exposed in the field of fossil energy. We need to have a conscious relationship with how much this exposure is going to be, and how vulnerable we can stand to be. The committee of experts proposed by the majority now reduced will have an important role to play in seeing the whole of our exposure in fossil energy – coal, oil and gas. As the majority points out in its comments, it is important to contribute to research that can reveal the financial risk of the State pension fund foreign investment in oil and coal companies, in the context of the significant share of the petroleum sector in the rest of Norway’s economy. The climate challenge is probably the biggest challenge of our time, and the work on a knowledge-based approach to understanding the physical context, but also what policy action we should take is important. The challenge is great, and then we need real solutions, solutions that deliver results. If we are to believe the climate scientists, we will in the future experience more frequent extreme weather, and in our part of the world it will probably be both wetter and warmer. Other parts of the world will experience greater impacts of drought, and sea levels are likely to rise. This, of course, has great implications for value creation and where money should be invested. The country’s pension fund abroad is a long-term investor and it is right to have increased attention on themes that may affect long-term returns and risks. Norway’s Bank has climate risk as one of its areas of ownership, and it is a very right priority in view of the challenges we face in this area. I record that, through the proposal we are dealing with, the Workers' Party has already concluded that coal companies should be withdrawn from the pension fund's investment portfolio – not as part of a risk-spreading assessment in the portfolio, but as a policy tool for climate emissions. Perhaps this could best be characterised as a strategy, somewhat by the approach of approach – in relation to the fact that the Workers' Party was opposed a year ago, and not least because it is far from a responsible treatment to have to discuss this issue and present the conclusion in a communication to the Stortinge in a few weeks' time, since, fortunately, there is no disagreement that any changes to the Fund's guidelines should be made in relation to the annual management message presented each spring. In the opinion of the Right, this would be an irresponsible procedure. I would like to remind the Workers' Party that in the mandate for the management of the State pension fund abroad, it is established that in the long term, good returns on the investment portfolio are considered to be dependent on sustainable development in economic, environmental and social terms. Ownership exercise and influence have been assessed as a more effective strategy to address climate issues and contribute to positive changes than exclusion. However, it is natural to review whether this is the best approach or whether the exclusion of coal and petroleum companies can be a more effective strategy. As the Minister of Finance mentioned in his reply to the Finance Committee in this matter, this question has been considered in the past, namely in 2003, where the so-called Graver Committee concluded that there was no basis for negative filtration of coal-fired or petroleum-producing companies from the Fund. However, it is not unnatural to take a new review and assessment, as the majority also suggests in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1085	Basically, there's a majority in this room to draw SPUs out of companies that have coals as their core business, and I have to say that I think it's a sincere pity that that majority isn't being expressed here today. Although we all fully agree that there is a need to address more complex issues related to demarcation, it would be entirely possible, if this room wanted it, to make a decision today that made sure that the SPU was quickly out of the coal companies. This would not prevent the creation of an expert committee that would be wider-ranging – a proposal that we will otherwise be voting for. I find that there is no majority to go out of coal companies today, and I share the disappointment that, among other things. the environmental movement has expressed itself in this matter. From the outside, this has to look pretty absurd. It has been a little impressive, I must say, through this debate to see how the Left and Christian People's Party is trying to hide its own retreat behind accusations against the red-green parties, and especially the Workers' Party, because we mean something else now than what we did a year ago. But politics is always moving, fortunately – the year 1887 has already been in the debate – so it has been throughout the history of my party, and I guess it is in all other parties as well. And it's hard to understand the mind that this obviously creates, especially in the Christian People's Party. As I said, we are going to vote in favour of this group of experts. Professional knowledge is always good. We can use it for example. to solve these demarcation problems, but I'm a little surprised that the Left and Christian People's Party expresses such great satisfaction that the government parties say they will listen to this group of experts. The representative Breivik from the Left even states that he assumes that the sample will come up with recommendations in line with the policy of the Left. But what if the group concludes that we should not withdraw – is it this expert group that is going to decide? This is politics. This should be the subject of political assessments. We use experts to help us achieve the goals that we adopt politically, not to make political decisions for us. So it's in itself a good idea to let a selection of experts look at the balances between extractions and active ownership. The fund has succeeded in being ethically conscious and active owners in the past. A lot of solid work has been done in dialogue with individual companies, for example: in order to ensure a minimum of professional rights. The Fund has taken the initiative to work with entire industries, for example: to combat child labour, and initiatives that have made a difference have helped to underpin the overall leadership that we have put on the fund to contribute to sustainable development. So it's quite obvious that direct extraction is often not the best answer if you want to influence an industry or a sector. However, it is difficult to see that ownership dialogue should lead to a case where we have taken an active stand against the whole of the core business. When the fund excluded investment in tobacco, it was based on the belief that the production of the product itself is unethical, and then it does not help to work with corporate culture or environmental criteria. That's a corresponding position we've taken to coal. Coal is in a special position among the fossil energy carriers. Within the two-degree scenario, there is no room for large-scale coal production, and then, as politicians, we need to make a political decision as to whether we believe this is what we should have our future pension funds invested in. The debate on fossil exposure from a purely financial perspective is interesting. Stranded assets and carbon bubbles have become concepts internationally, and it is quite natural and also good that they reach Norway. However, the proposal we are promoting today has a climate-based justification, it has an ethical basis. That's why I have to say that it's so wonderful to experience that both the Left and the Christian People's Party, which has argued over several years to reduce fossil exposure in the SPU just for climate and ethical reasons, ends up voting against this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1101	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1104	It may seem that many were taken to bed when the Workers' Party proposed to ask the government in the spring's announcement on the management of the SPU to notify that the fund is withdrawing from coal mining companies that have the primary task of extracting coal, and setting up an expert group to investigate possible extractions from other coal companies. I think there are several parties here that should be pleased with this proposal, because it is now a majority to do exactly what we are proposing, and that I perceive that the Christian People's Party and the Left have previously meant to withdraw the oil fund from coal companies. But what happens? Well, neither the Christian People's Party, the Left Party, nor the government parties will talk to us about the proposal. Instead of being able to carry out extractions of coal companies now, as I believe they wanted earlier, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been given the advantage of setting up an expert group to assess, up to the next single-year notice on the Pension Fund, whether the exclusion of coal and petroleum companies appears to be a more effective strategy than ownership and influence to address climate issues. In addition, they try to question the involvement of the Workers' Party in this matter and call it populistic. We recognise the Christian People's Party and the Left's environmental exposure, so why try to put the Workers' Party's environmental exposure in a bad light instead of discussing the issue? For the Workers' Party, that investigation supports the Christian People's Party and the Left has got the government on, while at the same time we want to go beyond that and withdraw the oil fund from coal companies now. That's the problem. There has been a broad consensus on the investment strategy of the Oil Fund since its establishment. Environmental and responsible investment have been focused over many years and reflected in the framework of the fund. The main objective of the Fund is to maximise the return on investment within a moderate risk. The proposal to exclude clean coal companies is a continuation of this work. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states that it is safer than ever that the population's emissions affect the climate, and that the time window for turning the global emissions trend is narrow if we are to reach the two-degree target. It is therefore natural that the attention to climate in the ownership exercise of the oil fund is further intensified in the coming years. The proposal of the Labour Party must be seen in the light of this. Just before the elections last September, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and the other Nordic prime ministers Barack Obama met in Stockholm. In the joint declaration of the meeting, the countries agreed not to finance new coal-fired power stations abroad and to help other countries and investment banks do the same. The Workers' Party's proposal is a natural follow-up to this declaration. On the basis of this, the working party will already be involved in the extraction of coal companies. But we did not get that on the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, despite the fact that I perceive that the Left and Christian People's Party has meant this earlier. It is a pity that we have to wait one year for the decision to withdraw the oil fund from the coal. With the Workers' Party, there's a majority on Stortingen to do it now. What happens in a year, nobody knows.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1123	The Workers' Party has promised to become a constructive opposition party. This case shows that the Workers' Party is angled. In December, the Workers' Party voted against an SV proposal to phase out investments in fossil energy. The reasons given by the working party for voting against were that changes to the guidelines had to be made in the annual management message. This actually made sense. For it is not fair to make changes to the fund without assessing first. Now the Workers' Party has changed again. The Workers' Party now requires the government to notify that the oil fund will leave coal mining companies, regardless of what an investigation shows. I'm a little surprised by the new policy of 5,000 billion. kr shall be managed according to the approach. In contrast to the Workers' Party, the Progress Party considers that the Oil Fund should be managed in a responsible and long-term manner based on objective criteria. Management by the containment method is not sufficient. I'm not sure if the world will use more or less coal if the oil fund withdraws from coal companies all over the world. I am also not sure whether exclusion of coal companies is a more effective climate action than serious ownership. Nor do I know how the oil fund will be experienced abroad if the fund has a role as a moral police force. The working party has already concluded on these difficult questions. On the contrary, the Progress Party believes that we should listen to the advice we are gradually receiving from the experts in the Ministry of Finance and from the new expert group.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1139	It has been nice to sit and follow the debate. The temperature has occasionally been slightly higher than the maximum required, for there is no doubt that there is a consensus in the Storting that we should have a responsible management of the State pension fund abroad. No one wants to run that fund in any way, and at least not by the input method, as the last representative here said. On the contrary, there is a strong consensus on the opposite – just to be long-term. It's very good with the expert group that's proposed. It will be exciting to see the consequences — how you think purely financially, about risk exposure, etc. But it will also be exciting in the course of this debate to look at how the climate system in the minds of the political parties in this room is actually when assessing the future of the SPU. That'll be interesting. The signals here are extremely unclear in that respect. What I think is going to be a little bit special is that a proportion that accounts for approx. 2.5 to 3.5 billion. kr, or to put it another way: 0.0065 pst. of our oil assets, must arouse such strong reactions in this room and must require extensive investigations before one can decide on the coal-mining companies and their possible outcome. I'm a little surprised at that. I am at least amazed at those who believe it is a climate dimension in the fact that a large fund gives a clear signal. That's what I think is especially about climate. But I recognize that there are probably some people here who today are voting against proposals that they are originally in favour of. I get to accept it, but at the same time attend the debate in a year and see how the Christian People's Party and the Left will potentially retort their future of SPU. It can be very exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1150	Just very briefly in the end, since it is repeated that someone – read: Christian People's Party and Left, I guess – votes against something you're in favour of. Then, for the sixth time during this debate, I think, I will repeat the following: for less than a year ago, we in this Chamber promoted a note in the hope that the red-greens could be involved in it, which they could not – quite incomprehensible when you hear the debate here today – that we wanted an investigation that was going on climate and financial risk. That's what we've got today's decision. So I hope that's the last time we hear that we're voting against something we're in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1155	I just want to be allowed to say in the end that this debate has been predictable and interesting. I noticed with interest the representative of Syversen's post and tone in it and that he here asks that it is the last time he hears the one and the other. I can assure the hall that it won't be. I respect the fact that he quotes earlier proposals. Once we have seen the Christian People's Party there that they have been for Norway to withdraw the SPU from the coal companies, we are now told that it does not mean the Christian People's Party. That's a pretty straightforward explanation. They're now to have the investigation. We've also agreed on that, we think it can give interesting knowledge. But it's an interesting news the great commitment to clarify that formalism. We await the conclusion of the sample, which will come in a year. It's been completely unclear how the hall and the different parties behind it look at the motivation for that selection. We have been told that today. The Minister of Finance has said that this is about the basis for managing the fund at large. Yes, that makes us wiser, but I don't think we have become much wiser in this debate on the environmental and climate aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1166	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1169	I'm told that parties here think it's perfectly right to say that you mean something other than what you're actually doing. What the motivation for that is, I can't go into, but just so it's clear: what we said one year ago, is exactly what we now stand for, and we vote then. Then you have to say – and clearly know – what we mean in the innermost. They obviously know that better than the Christian People's Party and the Left itself. It falls on its own unreasonableness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1174	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1188	It is customary to thank the Committee for its cooperation in the submission of a proposal for a co-decision procedure. I would like to, but thank you just as much to the previous committee and government, which has developed the amendments to the Finance Act, etc., which has been endorsed by all parties. The bill is about four separate legislative changes that are dealt with in one round. The first has the background of the Banking Law Commission and the Committee on Financial Crisis proposals on new rules for dealing with disputes between financial undertakings and their consumers. The amendments to the Financial Activities Act, the Securities Trading Act and the Securities Fund Act correspond to this. The second has the background of the previous credit supervision, now the Financial Supervisory Authority, proposal from 2009 for a new provision in the property brokering regulation that brokers should ensure that the buyer has obtained the right to the property before the purchase price can be disposed of on behalf of the seller. Secondly, amendments to the rules on professional secrecy are proposed in the Financial Supervision Act, the Central Bank Act and the People's Security Fund Act for the exchange of information and, finally, amendments to the Securities Register Act for the purpose of providing transparency to securities registers subject to the obligation of professional secrecy for research purposes. The amendments to the Financial Activities Act, the Securities Trading Act and the Securities Fund Act provide new rules for dealing with disputes between financial undertakings and their clients. A financial undertaking shall, if it does not follow an opinion of a respondent in dispute with a consumer customer, cover its own and the counterparty's necessary legal costs at first instance of the same dispute between the same parties. This will apply mutatis mutandis to proceedings in higher courts if the financial undertaking is the recognised party. The changes to the property brokering rules of the Property Agent Act mean that brokers must ensure that the buyer has the right to reside in the property before the purchase price can be made available on behalf of the seller. The proposal will include, inter alia: contribute to ensuring that buyers and buyers do not suffer financial losses in settlement. The amendments to the Financial Supervision Act, the Central Bank Act and the People's Rights Fund Act are proposed in order to ensure the necessary flow of information and to take account of clear and transparent rules of professional secrecy – in short, that the necessary information can be shared between the institutions concerned, but that the obligation of professional secrecy will follow both business information in general and information that would be of competitive importance to secrecy. Furthermore, amendments to the Act on the Registration of Financial Instruments – the Securities Register Act – would open up for research purposes in order to provide transparency of information in securities registers subject to the obligation of professional secrecy. There are enough things that create more inspired debate and involvement in the Storting than this. However, the changes to the Financial Activities Act strengthen the legal certainty of the consumer towards financial undertakings, and the changes to the Real Estate Act will ensure more orderly property trading than current legislation. Furthermore, the amendments to the Financial Supervision Act, the Central Bank Act and the People's Security Fund Act will ensure the necessary flow of information, while the changes to the Securities Registration Act ensure transparency of information for research purposes that may have societal significance. There are four things that benefit citizens. I thank you for the preliminary work and the cooperation on this and recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1214	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1228	As rapporteur on the report of the National Audit Office on the control of State companies, document 3:2 for 2013–2014, I would like to briefly explain the matter and the majority comments. The case concerns the control of 44 state-owned wholly-owned limited liability companies, 31 state-owned limited liability companies, 8 public limited-liability companies, 4 regional health companies, 8 state-owned companies, 6 companies organised by separate law, and 24 student partnerships. The verification is valid for the year 2012. The National Audit Office has found the basis for comments on the government administration of State interests under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Transport. Furthermore, the Riksrevision has notes on the implementation of the government’s ownership policy, as formulated in the Notice of Initiation. St.13 for 2010–2011, Active ownership. Under the heading Equal opportunities and diversity of companies with State interests, the Committee makes the following comments: ‘The Committee notes that the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Industry and Trade agree that there has been a positive development in terms of women and employees with a migrant background. The Committee also notes that the Riksrevision study finds that women are nevertheless under-represented as directors and in executive positions and that persons with a migrant background are under-represented. The Committee welcomes the fact that several departments have taken action to strengthen the follow-up in the field of equality. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision points out that many companies do not comply with all the requirements of the statutory activity and reporting obligation and that the Ministry of Ownership has carried out an overall follow-up to the work of companies on equality and diversity to varying degrees.» Under the title of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in relation to listed companies, the Committee has the following comments: ‘The Committee points out that the National Audit Office’s investigation shows that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is principally in the position of ownership of the listed companies in line with the share laws, NUES’ recommendations and the country’s ownership principles. The Committee refers to the Court of Auditors’ assessment that the Ministry may not, on its own initiative, promote new candidates after the deadlines set by the electoral committees. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision study shows that most companies have achieved a low return on their invested capital in recent years. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade shares the Riksrevision's view that over time, the State must continue to strengthen the follow-up to the business operations of the companies in order to contribute to achieving a satisfactory return on invested capital. The Committee welcomes the strengthening by the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the staff of the Section for Ownership from the autumn of 2012.’» Under the ownership exercise of the Ministry of Transport chapter, the Committee: ‘The Committee notes that the National Audit Office’s investigation shows that the Ministry of Transport is in many areas exercising its ownership role in line with the share law and the State’s ownership principles. The Committee also notes that, at the same time, it is considered by the National Audit Office that the continuous follow-up by the Ministry on some key issues of government ownership policy has been weak during the 2010-2012 investigation period. The Committee is critical of the fact that, according to the National Audit Office’s study, the Ministry of Transport had not established a satisfactory practice in the Governing Board’s work, and that the work also did not have an adequate priority, the Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry has taken action in connection with the future work of the Governing Board, and notes that the Riksrevision sees that the measures will provide more systematic, thorough and verifiable electoral processes. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision stresses that compensation for sectoral policy tasks without corporate economic anchoring is not to be granted in the event of reduced returns and dividends expectations, and that this is of particular importance to competing companies. The Committee also points to the Riksrevision's assessment that this has not been sufficiently clarified in the Ministry and that this has also created confusion in the dialogue with the companies. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Transport and the National Audit Office agree that there is a possibility and need to establish more specific procedures for dealing with and following up matters and plans set out in Section 10 of the Statute. The Committee notes that the Ministry and the National Audit Office also agree that there is still the potential for better systematics and coordination related to the ownership regime and the documentation of the ownership dialogue.’;» Under the title of the ownership exercise of regional health enterprises related to activity and the economy, the Committee notes the following: ‘The Committee shares the Riksrevision’s view that all RHFs must include the assumptions of the different health establishments when setting the annual activity targets. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision has noted that according to the Ministry, Health South-East has adapted governance according to the risks of health enterprises, and does not primarily follow up on risks related to the overall performance of the group. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the Riksrevision points out that although the administration receives information on the risks of individual health undertakings, only significant deviations may affect the overall performance of the group of undertakings presented to the Board of Directors. As also stated in Document 3:2 [[2012-2013]] Under the heading Status for the implementation of the conversion mission to Oslo University Hospital HF, the Committee makes the following comments: ‘The Committee notes that the Ministry will continue to follow up the changes in the hospital sector in the capital city area. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision stresses that the OYS remains to introduce many better and more efficient treatment chains as part of the transition, and that there is a significant potential for better use of professional skills and forms of work from the previously distinct professional environments and that the OYS has had too weak overall management across the clinics to remove bottlenecks and provide professional benefits from the transition. The Committee notes that the Ministry and the National Audit Office agree that there have been positive developments in the OYS in some areas. At the same time, the Committee notes that the Riksrevision does not consider that the switchover has made significant improvements in patient treatment or resource utilisation. The Committee shares the Riksrevision’s view that it is serious that such extensive migration is carried out without a plan for improvement in patient treatment or other clarifications as to what should be improved and at what time it should be implemented. The Committee notes that the lack of improvement in patient treatment at the OYS is worrying and should be taken into account before political bodies decide, where appropriate, to initiate other hospital mergers. The Committee notes that from the start of the OYS transition in 2009 until the end of 2012, there are few clear improvements in patient treatment and resource use in the OYS. The Committee points out that the OYS has persistent challenges with bottlenecks, waiting times and deadlines, even though the switchover led to the company being responsible for fewer patients. [[2012-2013]] The OUS had demanding framework conditions for the implementation of the conversion, cf. Document 3:2 An important clarification for the Right part is that this last comment from our side is interpreted as summarising the feedback from health professionals at Oslo University Hospital. It must not be interpreted as a request decision or an order to the government. Under the heading ‘Controlling, achieving objectives and reporting on results related to the prevention of infections in the specialist healthcare system’, the Committee makes the following comments: ‘The Committee refers to the National Audit Office’s assessment that the impact of the strategy on health businesses has been ‘very limited. The Committee also notes that the four health establishments surveyed show considerable differences in the incidence of hospital infections and the Riksrevision considers that there is still a potential for improving the work on infectious diseases in health establishments.» Under the heading Capital formation and management of current assets of companies managed by universities and higher education institutions, the Committee has the following comments: ‘The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry will follow up the comments of the National Audit Office with respect to the institutions of ownership. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision stresses the importance of the monitoring by the owner institutions that the financing of companies is appropriate and contributes to the efficient and economically sound operation of the companies.’;» Under the good activities of the NSB, the Committee shall make the following comments: ‘The Committee notes that the Riksrevision considers that CargoNet will not be able to operate on rail freight for years to come with satisfactory business results. The Committee shares the Riksrevision’s view that the Ministry of Transport should consider whether the continued and sustained reduction of the dividend base would involve illegal subsidisation.’ Under the Chapter Outcome of the Annual Control, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Committee has the following comments: ‘The Committee refers to the Riksrevision study on the proportion of Corridor Asians at Akershu University Hospital HF. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the National Audit Office agree that the negative development in the number of Corridor Asians is unfortunate and that it is important that reasons are identified and actions implemented. The Committee welcomes the initiation of work on the identification of reasons and possible measures.’.» Under the follow-up of previously reported matters by the Ministry of Transport, the Committee: ‘The Committee notes that the Riksrevision’s assessment is that the evaluation of the three companies is not sufficient to assess whether the objectives in the field of performing arts are being achieved. The Committee notes that, in its reply to the Riksrevision, the Ministry has not indicated how to better monitor the use of resources by companies. The Committee shares the opinion of the National Audit Office that there is still a need to further develop the reporting by the performing arts companies and that there is a need for the Ministry to respond to the need to strengthen incentives for efficient operation. The Committee notes the findings of the National Audit Office that the profitability of Statkraft remains linked to Nordic hydropower activities, while the international activity outside the Nordic region has had low or negative returns in both 2011 and 2012. The Committee welcomes the increased follow-up by the Ministry of State to the achievement of its purpose. The Committee refers to the Riksrevision’s finding that Netbuss’ profitability is not satisfactory. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry has underlined to the NSB that the main purpose of the company is to provide a well-functioning rail service and that activities beyond that financial, competent or otherwise need to support the main purpose. In addition, the Committee welcomes the close monitoring of developments in the NSB and Nettbuss by the Ministry.’ Finally, I would like to say that in general, with some significant exceptions, the management of state companies is good. On the points on which the Riksrevision finds the basis for comments, the departments responsible largely agree with the problem description of the Riksrevision, but here too there are some exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1360	The case concerns the Riksrevision's report on the control of State companies in the Riksrevision Act. It deals with a comprehensive report and the rapporteur listed all the items of control in his statement. In the report, the National Audit Office has related comments to four departments and to the implementation of the State’s ownership policy. The Committee shall promote in the suspension all materially unanimous comments. I would like to comment here on the setting related to some conditions with a common comment, and refer to the setting as well. In addition, I would like to mention one comment from the majority who are not supported by the Workers' Party. With regard to the exercise of some aspects of ownership policy, as formulated in the Notice. St. 13 for 2010–2011, Active ownership, shows that work on professionalising ownership is developing positively. At the same time, controls show the possibility of improvements in ownership management in relation to gender equality, governance, ownership dialogue and how national requirements are fully implemented to a single health business. The central findings of the extended controls of the companies were, in the Riksrevisions, four factors: One, that the extensive conversion of the Oslo University Hospital HF did not have a profit-making plan, two, that the national strategy for the prevention of hospital infections has had a limited effect, three, that companies managed by universities and colleges have built up high equity, and four, that there is weak societal achievement in terms of the volume of freight on the road. As regards the conversions at Oslo University Hospital HF, a Joint Committee notes that the Riksrevision does not consider that the conversion has made significant improvements in patient treatment or in resource utilisation. It is underlined that the survey covers the period 2010-2012. We note that the Ministry and the National Audit Office agree that there have been positive developments for the health business in some areas. An overall committee also notes that health professionals have repeatedly identified deficiencies in the planning and implementation of the switchover and that health professionals are concerned about the quality of the switchover. Overall feedback is of such a nature that improvements need to be made in both the short and the long term. On our side, we believe that the Riksrevision report does not indicate how this should be done operationally, and that the Committee itself should not prescribe the recipe. The working party is therefore not concerned with the final remark of the majority, which provides for the reorganization of the hospital. We remember that the hospital has well 20,000 employees, and this report does not assume that the weaknesses of a previously adopted conversion are resolved by proposing a further conversion. I am recording – and I think it is good – that the rapporteur here in the Grand Chamber has made it clear that, despite its wording, the majority comment should not be understood as a request decision. The national strategy for the prevention of infections in healthcare was presented in 2008. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: explain how the strategy has been implemented and what results have been achieved. The Committee refers to the National Audit Office’s assessment that the effects in hospitals have been limited. Furthermore, the Committee noted large differences in the incidence of hospital infections in the investigated enterprises. There is a clear potential for improving the work on infectious diseases in our hospitals. With regard to the establishment of high equity capital by companies managed by universities and colleges, the Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry will follow up the observations made by the Court of Auditors towards the institutions. The national audit considers that there is a weak societal achievement in terms of the extent of freight transport on the road. The Committee notes with satisfaction the assessment of the Riksrevision that CargoNet will in future not have a basis for operating on-road freight with satisfactory results, and the Committee shares the assessment that the Ministry of Transport should consider whether a sustained reduction in the basis of dividends would involve illegal subsidisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1383	I would like to clarify on behalf of the Advancement Party that we share the Right interpretation of the comment to local management and interpret it as a summary of feedback from health professionals and not as an order from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1388	My post will focus on the part of the study called Status for the implementation of the conversion mission to Oslo University Hospital HF. This was established in January 2009 by the merger of Aker, Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet. The mission and purpose of the merger were clearly expressed: better patient treatment through improved resource use and coordination of hospitals in the capital area. This would include, inter alia: better coordination of the professional and research environments, better use of personnel, area, equipment, technology and support functions. But what has happened? The results of the monitoring, as demonstrated by the National Audit Office’s 2012–2013 report and the outcome of the review, clearly show that the planning of the conversions did not take sufficient account of the known challenges of building mass, by having scattered sites, different ICT solutions and economic frameworks. It is also clearly pointed out that the management of the risk was not good enough either. On the contrary, high risk was accepted by the owners. Also in the period up to 2012, it appears that the OYS continues to ‘remain in place many better and more effective treatment chains as part of the transition’. There is no doubt that the overall management has been weak. We record that the bottlenecks are still there, and the gains you had seen in the merger have been missed. In addition, there is a significant economic deficit that has created a situation over time that is also pointed out cannot be sustainable. So, although positive developments have been achieved in some areas, one still — one has to note — is not close to the improvements in patient treatment and resource use that one would see as contributing to the pooling. It is serious when neither the Department nor Health South-East has been able to describe what needs to be improved and when improvements can be made. One is actually a witness that a comprehensive conversion is made without a plan for what is to be changed. In other words, a large experiment is conducted without a thoughtful risk assessment. The challenges referred to by the case-rapporteur are in line and are described in the Riksrevision report: bottlenecks, waiting lists and deadlines. However, one of the most serious things is that although Health South-East has added extra resources to Oslo University Hospital, one has not helped to clarify what needs to be improved and when the results can be expected. So let's see what the health professionals say, and that's referred to in the National Audit Office's investigation. It's serious. The migration process has weakened the quality of treatment and patient safety. We record a different sense of reality, too low capacity, too long decision-making lines and lack of local management, and – not least – lack of local decision-making authority, such as major challenges requiring immediate action, to just solve the capacity and organisational problems pointed out here at Oslo University Hospital. This Christian People's Party has pointed out and asked on several occasions in this Chamber to be followed up. It is therefore important that owners are now required to ensure a necessary basis. This concerns both the Ministry of Health and the South-East, just to follow up on this, so that new measures can be implemented and in fact provide clear improvements in all these important and affected areas. This is about patient safety, and it is about treatment quality. I also refer you to the rapporteur's excellent articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1405	I want to link my post to Part III in the setting: Results of extended controls, Status for implementing the conversion mission to Oslo University Hospital HF. The OUS was established on 1 January 2009 by bringing together the three former healthcare companies Aker, Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet. The aim was very good, namely better use of resources and coordination of hospitals in the capital area. It would have been a big and demanding challenge, and it didn't work as it was supposed to. Since the OUS has the functions it has, this includes far larger geographical areas than the Oslo area. It also includes national functions. So what's happening within the OYS has consequences for the whole country's health services at the specialist level. The company is organised in nine clinics, and in 2012 it had 20,000 employees and a turnover of 18.3 billion. kr. So it is – point one – very essential, our entire specialist health service, and – point two – uniquely large in the country. It is clear that the entity suffers from significant economies of scale, as it operates today, when a reader reads the Riksaudition's very strong observations. This is no new matter. As late as the Inner East. 234 S, issued on 12 March 2013, dealt with the same matter. There were generally critical remarks to the management of the OYS at the time, whether it was opposition or position. From the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party it was said that it was «require awareness to recognise risks and changes in attitudes and culture to improve patient administration». Furthermore, it was stressed that: ‘in addition, adequate training, follow-up and management measures need to be implemented’. As mentioned above, the OUS has consequences for adjacent companies, and as a result, when a patient was held responsible for fewer patients in the event of a change of remittance, there was, for example, a transfer to Aarhus and to the West Viken. There was then a requirement to adapt the capacity to this, i.e. a downboard. The conversion of the OUS should improve coordination of professional and research environments and ensure the proper use of personnel, land, medical devices, technology and support functions, i.e., as mentioned, very, very good purposes. There was a need for change, and that's why the Center Party said yes. I'll include a few quotes from the Riksrevision's statements: ‘ there is a significant potential for better use of professional skills and working forms from the previously separated professional environments. [[...]] OUS has had too weak overall control across clinics [[...]] Further: «For the last two years, OUS has also had deficits that are not sustainable over time». And on the other hand that ‘Overall, the switchover has not yet provided clear improvements in patient treatment or resource use. In the follow-up to the OYS migration, neither the Ministry of Health nor the Ministry of Health nor the HSØ have provided clarification on what should improve and when improvements can be expected. The National Audit Service takes a serious view that such a comprehensive transformation is carried out without a profit-rewarding plan. In the case of major conversions, it is essential, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, that the owners ensure a good basis for following up on the fact that conversions actually lead to improvements’. I have not been in the control committee for many years, but I have rarely seen such strong comments from the Riksrevision. I have rarely seen such strong criticism of the management of Oslo University Hospital, whether it is directly there, in Health South-East or at department level. So what can we learn from this? The Committee has followed up the comments of the National Audit Office, which we have tradition of doing, because we have great confidence in what the Riksrevision is working on. It says, among other things: in our remarks that we should learn from this before political bodies decide, where appropriate, to start other hospital mergers. I'm not going to elaborate on it, but one should learn before going further within the structure – that there are structural interventions that are the most important in improving the efficiency and exploitation of all the personal resources we have in the specialist health service. Then we have the closing remark, where all parties, except the Workers' Party – The Workers' Party did not agree, it is quite real – point out that different realities, too long decision-making lines, lack of local management and lack of local decision-making authority are such that in the short term, a person must have immediate action to solve the capacity and organisational problems by reorganising Oslo University Hospital in order to have local management at all levels. What's at the heart of that comment is that there's a summary of completely specific issues that show management isn't good enough. It says that you have a different sense of reality about what's going on and what to do. In any democratic organization, it is clear that one then faces great difficulties, and if one does not establish a common sense of reality, it becomes quite impossible for the team to work on these matters, to do a good job. For me, it is quite natural that this must be established. I thought it was seaworthy. Not only health professionals, who are the people working in the field, say that, but also from the usual organisational theory, this is well-known. Then we're going to point it out, point it out as a need for change and that local management is an instrument in this. I have now been made clear that the Right is not in favour of that comment, because the Right says that there is a comment that is just a reference to health professionals, i.e. those who work in the business. It's not petty, though. Those who work in the business — in health enterprises, they are very much the ones who are in the business. But that's what it is now. After the assessment of the Centre Party, the wording of the note is clear. It's not about any new conversion, but there are issues about focusing on management. Focus is on the fact that the clinic management that is there today – as it works and the trust it has – leads to so many weaknesses in the organisation that there is a need for changes on that point. Local management is a keynote. I just want to end by saying that maybe Oslo University Hospital could look at the West Viken. Perhaps you could see the Vestre Viken where one of the hospitals is called Ringerijk Hospital. Ringy hospitals today have a leader called the ‘fasilitator’. His name is Per Bleieklia. He gets prizes from one and the other for his leadership. It has not been long since there were also strong tensions in Ringerijk Hospital, where there was a lack of efficiency, dissatisfaction and lack of vitality in the organisation. Per Pinkelia has changed this through his local management. He does not yet, under his local leadership, have responsibility for the entire flock working in the Ringerijk Hospital. Still, those who are in the reception belong to another. But when soft cakes are ordered and the prices they receive are celebrated, the whole flock working at the Ringerich Hospital is usually invited. It's the first bid for someone who wants to gather the flock and get good management. Finally, in my opinion, the majority of the Committee's comments are precise. It's going on what's going on in management. It's management that's the big challenge. Here it points to important things that have to be followed up. I hope that it will be done despite the statements that have come from the government party on the right today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1461	The National Audit Office's study provides a useful review of the conversion so far at Oslo University Hospital. I agree with the committee that shares the Riksrevision's view that it is serious that such a comprehensive conversion is carried out without the owner having been clear on what should be the results of the conversion. This, I believe, was a main theme of the report by the Riksrevision before, and also in the Stortingen hearing on the situation. The fact that the basis for the merger of the hospitals in Oslo and the fiction against Aarhus was not sufficiently established and risk-assessed is something that an overall political environment has recognised for some time ago. I agree with the committee that this is the experience we must learn from. Not least, we politicians must learn from this, both in the role of big business representatives and in government. Major changes in state activities affect many people and large and complex organisations. Health South-East and Oslo University Hospitals have started a number of processes to give us a better knowledge base both to assess history and to better plan the future. I will bring forward two of them: ‘Evaluation of the migration process in Health South-East. Knowledge base for further development towards 2020.’ This started in the autumn of 2012, is now implemented by SINTEF and is a three-year project. The first report was submitted in January 2014. The second is «Hospital mergers – lessons from the past, plans for the future», which is an initiative by the management of Oslo University Hospital. Here is a reference group of hospital representatives who have undergone similar conversion processes in both Sweden and Denmark. This is a project that will be research-based, but will also provide us with the necessary and useful knowledge of the process we have been through and a good basis for better planning for the future. The Committee also points out that feedback from health professionals shows that the nature of the problems in the metropolitan area is such as to require a concrete plan to address them in the short, medium and long term. It's an assessment that I share. That's why this was one of the first issues I raised directly with Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital immediately after I became Minister of Health and Care. Concrete plans were made for the capacity challenges in the Capital Region for 2014. They are in progress, and so far is my impression that this has worked considerably better this winter than what we experienced in the winter of 2013. Health South-East is working on a greater review of capacity needs across the region by 2030-2040. The report will be on my table in June. The results may have an impact on both Akershu University Hospital and Oslo University Hospital. Thus, the Committee’s work here refers to the need, well under way — the short-term challenges, the medium-term challenges and the long-term challenges. It is important that initiatives for further work at Oslo University Hospital come from the hospital itself. I am therefore pleased that Oslo University Hospital has launched an evaluation, which may be followed up with changes in the organisation. Oslo University Hospital is continuing to work on its planned work and will present a case to the Board of Directors on this matter for the summer. I am in the situation that the Riksrevision report covers a period for which another State Council and another government have been responsible, while I myself was the head of the Health and Care Committee of the Stortinge. The National Audit Office is the Grand Duchy's audit of state activities. Because of this change in role, I will allow myself to be somewhat critical of part of this report from the Riksrevision. The National Audit Office has presented Document 3:2 for 2013–2014, where they are critical of Health South-East governance of the underlying health companies. They refer to the fact that the Board of Health of the South-East does not set enterprise-specific performance requirements and rely to a large extent on the follow-up of health businesses to their own administration. I disagree both in the manufacture and in the conclusion. Health South-East follows up underlying health enterprises depending on their risk and materiality, as the other health enterprises do. This is evident in the special follow-up to Oslo University Hospital. In that context, I will refer to what my predecessor wrote about this to the Riksrevision in response to this criticism, and join it. Among other things, he wrote\t\t You can ‘When follow-up by the regional health undertaking varies from one health undertaking to another, this is precisely an adapted governance based on local responsibility and adapted to the risks, characteristics and materialities of the health undertaking.’ I am pleased that the Riksrevision follows the conversions at Oslo University Hospital close. I agree with parts of the National Audit Office's report. Then there are other areas where I think there's reason to think through what the consequence would be if one had achieved what the Riksrevision asks questions about. For example, the National Audit Office says that we now have a good basis for much of what we were to achieve with the merger of Oslo University Hospital, but that one has not realised the full benefit of it. Key reasons are precisely that the building and ICT conditions do not facilitate the realisation of this gain. Demanding results without making it possible to make a profit would quickly compromise both patient safety and employee relationships. I am therefore pleased that the management has not pushed this through. The National Audit Office is concerned that a plan for winnings has not been drawn up and that gains have not been realised. I would like to point out that the Stortinget has not been clear about the expectations about whether and when you are going to win. On the contrary, during the time this conversion process has taken place, five interpellations have been held and about 86 questions have been asked about the capital process. I am responsible for a not completely immaterial part of both these interpellations and the questions. The message that has been given from a broad majority of Stortingen over these years to four different health and care ministers has been that time pressure in the transition should not compromise patient safety and quality. It has been expected that the conversion would be carried out in a proper manner without excessive requirements for progress or economic performance. It's been the Great Government's message. It is this expectation that I believe the Riksrevision must be taken into account, and not that the greater part of the gain, or the effect, should have been removed at an earlier date. Oslo University Hospital will be in transition for many years to come. The changes implemented as a result of aggregation and the changes that would have been made in any case may be difficult to distinguish now. For example, there is a trend towards profit-steering. now through the achievement of the budget each year. For 2014, Oslo University Hospital has a budget that is agreed and that appears to be balancing. I am also very pleased with the clarification by the case-rapporteur and the representative of the Progress Party on how to understand the final majority comment – that it is a reference to opinions among some employees of the company and not a message that a new reorganization work will now be started at Oslo University Hospital. The National Audit Office has examined the prevention of hospital infections and is critical of the effectiveness of the strategy and its follow-up. Prevention of hospital infections is an important area, and I will follow this up in the future. The Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute are working to create an indicator of infections such as: may be used as management targets in the service from next year. The regulatory framework for infections and resistance was recently reinforced by a new regulation on monitoring and reporting in hospitals. The county authorities are now to hold a conference on infectious diseases during 2014. Prevention of infections is also an important input into the five-year patient safety programme that is now underway across the country. One success factor here is good anchoring in each business management. The Public Health Institute is working on a cost model for hospital infections to demonstrate that it is good use of resources to work on systematic measures to prevent infections and antibiotic resistance. Hand washing is – still – a simple, inexpensive and effective tool. It's almost amazing that we have to remember that in 2014. The Public Health Institute has therefore been given the task of implementing something as simple as a hand hygiene campaign in 2014. I would also like to thank you for some of the contributions made by the Committee and representatives in this area. I believe that this report provides a good basis for further work on this process in many areas, although I object to part of the content of the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1511	The National Audit Board has assessed the implementation of the conversion mission for Oslo University Hospital. The aim of the study was to assess the evolution of patient treatment and resource use between 2010 and 2012. The conversion at Oslo University Hospital is a well-known issue for both the Control and Constitutional Committee and for the rest of the Grand Duchy through the treatment of a number of issues and interpellations. At the moment, there is also a proposal for a Document 8 in the Health and Welfare Committee to carry out an external review of the process, and a concrete plan for the further conversion work is being presented – a proposal to be supported by the Centre Party. Although the Riksrevision points out that there have been positive developments in some fields, the Riksrevision is quite clear that the overall shift has not provided clear improvements in patient treatment or resource utilisation. Neither the Ministry of Health and Welfare nor the Health of the South-East have been careful to clarify what is to be better and when it can be expected, and the Riksrevision takes a serious view that such a comprehensive transformation is carried out without a pay-as-you-go plan. I am pleased with the Committee's comments on this matter, where one joins the points of the Riksrevision. The Committee noted that: ‘The lack of improvement in patient treatment at the OUS is worrying and should be taken into account before political bodies decide, where appropriate, to initiate other hospital mergers’. This is a note that I expect will follow and be based on the government's work in other hospital regions and working on a national health and hospital plan. It is the planning of hospital mergers in most regional hospital establishments. In Agder there is a proposal to merge hospitals in Kristiansand, Agder and Flekkefjord. In Hedmark and Oppland, there are plans to merge hospitals in Hamar, Elverum, Lillehammer and Gjøvik into a new major hospital in Mjösa. In Buskerud, there are plans to merge Kongsberg and Drammen Hospital. This happens without us having had a thorough professional-political discussion about mergers and the establishment of a major hospital is the right direction for Sjukehus-Noreg, and whether this actually provides better patient treatment, better quality and lower costs. Evaluation of hospital mergers both in Sweden and England, but also in Norway, suggests the opposite. In Sweden, a researcher has looked at mergers and says that three out of four were unsuccessful. The fact that improvements in patient treatment do not make any difference and savings become additional costs is also the experience of the OUS. I expect the committee comment that we must now learn before we start other hospital mergers, so that the plans for mergers in the West Viken, the Inland and the South will not be finally adopted until the alert evaluation of the OYS has been completed and we have gained more knowledge of the merger process. The merger of hospitals is a decision that must be taken by the Stortinget in a national health and hospital plan. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has agreed that a concrete plan for the OUS migration process – in the short, medium and long term – and a number in the Committee point out that immediate action needs to be taken to address capacity and organisational problems by reorganising the OYS in order to obtain steady rental at all levels. This must be a full-leader lease, both professional, human and budgetary responsibilities. Otherwise, local rental will not have the same value – nor the opposite. Getting a good rent at a hospital is a superior political responsibility. I believe that the Committee's comment must follow the follow-up of the OUS by the Council of State in relation to the requirements for urban leases at all levels. I'm assuming the committee doesn't write anything they don't think it does. The National Audit Office has also looked at the national strategy for the prevention of health and antibiotic resistance infections. Monitoring systems have been established for infections acquired in healthcare and antibiotic resistance, the protection of infectious diseases should be strengthened, the National Institute for Public Health should coordinate, develop and follow up the strategy. The purpose was to reduce the incidence of infections acquired in the healthcare system. National audit studies show that the proportion of hospital infections is not reduced during the strategy period. Neither the Ministry of Health nor the regional health services can do justice to how the work on the strategy has affected the level of hospital infections and the work on infectious diseases in health care establishments. The national audit considers that the effects of the strategy in healthcare professionals are limited. There are also large regional differences, and there is still a potential to improve the work on infectious diseases. Infections resulting from withdrawal in healthcare institutions are burdensome: there is a patient risk and it is also expensive for healthcare. In the Quality and Patient Safety Notice, entitled ‘Good Quality — Safe Services’, it was estimated that 50,000 patients who are admitted to hospital each year receive a hospital infection that will prolong the stay by four days — that is, four days. a total of 200,000 additional hospital days per year. In addition to the direct costs of hospitals, sickness benefits, job losses, production losses, etc. More elderly patients, more advanced treatments in health services and shorter periods of time will mean that the problem will increase in the future, both in hospitals and in community hospitals and outside the institutions. But this is not just a challenge for the individual patient who suffers from a hospital-induced infection, which is serious. Increased use of antibiotics is a sequence and the spread of resistant microbars increases the extent of infections with antibiotic resistant microbars. In Norway, the situation is better than in other European countries, but this may change rapidly if the spread of antimicrobial resistance continues. The problem comes from an excessive volume of antibiotic use in the municipal health and care services and unnecessary use of broad spectrum antibiotics in the specialist services. There is little development of new medicinal products in this area. The world can therefore face a situation where a number of diseases can no longer be treated due to resistant microbars. Much work has been done to put in place an infrastructure to fight antibiotic-resistant and health services associated infections in Norwegian hospitals. We have been described as being regulated by laws, regulations, guidelines and strategies. However, when strategies do not work, when there is still too little robust in the institutions, and there is a lack of action, this is a major health challenge in Norway, both in the short term and in the long term. I mean what the Riksrevision has revealed is very serious, and it is crucial that the government of the Minister of Health ensures that they follow up the work of preventing hospital infections and reducing antibiotic resistance in Norway, and that this is anchored by the individual service location.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1544	I refer first to the rapporteur's good review of the whole setting. It's also about questions other than what's in particular at the focus here now, and I'm also taking the floor to comment, i.e. Oslo University Hospital. Let me first say that I believe that the representative Lundtägen and now especially Toppe, in my opinion, use the experience of Oslo University Hospital as a negative experience for all types of hospital mergers. There are also many positive experiences, from elsewhere in the country, so the picture is not as clear in my opinion as the representatives of Lundtigen and Toppe express here in this debate. Of course, there's every reason for the Storting to have very much respect for how complicated the situation is at Oslo University Hospital, and it's true, as Councillor Höie said in his statement, that there have been many discussions over the years about Oslo University Hospital here in this room. There have been some shared views, but there has at least been a consensus that it was right to carry out the process. I listened intensely to the statements of the Council of State, and I can't say that I heard something I disagreed with what the Council of State now said. In extending these comments, I would like to say a sentence here in Stortinget today, and that is that for Stortinget too, this must be the moment of recognition – in the sense that Stortinget, together with the Norwegian administration, has for many years thought this to be right. We've been behind it, and we've supported it. But then the difficult point comes, and that's the moment of recognition, and it's related to: how could we be so wrong in several areas that we have to re-examine so many critical views about what we ourselves have been behind? That's a very hard question. I was involved in this throughout the last period, I know this whole process, and I know partially the people who are behind it administratively. Everyone has good intentions, and yet it's going to be difficult. And what I hear from the Council of State says today, and that I agree with, and that I agree with, is just this, that now we're going to evaluate, and we're going to run it for years! The perspective I am travelling is just this: it was planned and evaluated – from floor to floor – before we made the decisions, and what is wrong? When we spend billions on billions of dollars, and then Health South-East, which is the responsible administrative body, says today that they do not know when they can present to the overall authority a plan for when it can be better! This article has not been held to criticise anyone. It might be considered as an article held in a little bit off. You almost shouldn't say that in the main hall, but I'm saying it anyway, because it shows that we have a problem, it shows that we have management problems in achieving the goals that we set ourselves. It's not just this case. There will be a few other health-related issues, just after this case, which also present significant weaknesses and challenges. And this has nothing to do with party politics. This has to do with systems. I just have to finish here, without having any point, political conclusion, saying that it's somewhere, between politics and government, that we can't manage to achieve effectively and properly and to control our processes so that we can meet our own goals. I believe that the government only has to – as has been said – follow up on what has been presented, and what the Council of State has said. That's the only way to go. My job, as head of the control committee, is not to have so many opinions about it. I'm just going to check that what's being said is being done correctly. We're going to keep doing that. But I hope that our health policy-makers, who are also represented in the Chamber now, can follow this up in such a way that the Control Committee, the next time we talk about Oslo University Hospital, does not have to have such heavy remarks to deal with from the Riksrevision, as we have so many times done in this Chamber, and as we have to do over and over again, and where we have to refer to new investigations in order to achieve the goal of Storting. It's a big cross of thought, and we all have to take it inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1565	After the last article, a fairly large debate can be opened. I will not try to do that, but I want – from our side – to stress that all kinds of hospital mergers are complicated and therefore need to be carefully planned. What is important now is that they need to be integrated into a national context, and no further such changes need to be made until a national health plan has been presented which also says something about the structure, governance and interaction of the healthcare system as a whole. It's incredibly important. The representative of Kolberg was up and talking about the history of this matter, and it might well be allowed to say that there were a little different opinions about this. There were other points of view that were raised in the discussions, which were put on the table, but which were not taken into account. There are management problems, and SV believes that it has to do with governance philosophy, the health company model and the market management principles to bring us up to these problems over and over again. The task of the Control and Constitutional Committee will be to see that what these models and models say has actually been done. When things don't go so well, we say, "Do more of the same thing, which we might also think is not quite right or hits the goal completely." That's why I'm going to say a little bit about it in the next case. We said a little about it during the examination of Document 1, when that debate was up the last time, but I don't think we're getting out of these problems until we find a governance model for health, which is a management model where it's possible to steer from qualitatively good goals, where part of these market management principles, on which we've now chosen to lean hard, are put in the drawer – otherwise we're going to continue with these reports year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1576	One of the benefits of the control committee's case is that we can go a little bit deeper into them. I very much appreciate that we have such an order of business. The merger at Oslo University Hospital was adopted because it was a clearly defined purpose. Many had seen over time that it could not continue as it did. One had to make changes. Many had the intuition and thought with their health that what was proposed was strange. It was nice that this should be the solution. But we prided ourselves on the basis of decision-making. We prided ourselves on the fact that those who were responsible for doing the job in a knowledge-based way had done it really, as Martin Kolberg now described it. One does not have to be specifically dedicated to academia or health professionals to see and acknowledge that the decision-making basis proved to be too poor — yes, very poor. What is now, in this discussion, quite special, is that we now have a government council that made a very special contribution, in my view. The Council of State is the only one who has criticised parts of the National Audit Office's report. No such criticism has been raised in the Committee's proceedings. Governments from the Red-Green Government were humiliated when it came to the criticism of the Riksrevision and not least when it came to the Committee's position. But councillor Höie thought that parts of the Riksrevision report were too bad. Then the former representative, Höie, took the maritime critical position that it was not just that simple for the Riksrevision, because the Stortinget had not been clear about, for example, whether a person should be able to get the winnings, and when the winnings were to be taken out. He referred to five interpellations and nearly 100 questions, where he sailed was responsible for very many of them. I think it's quite special to say it as the Council of State, while we have the records of what was said in the last period. I can agree that the Storting in many cases is too unclear. One of the major weaknesses of the Storting is that it should be more clear and more precise, and it should have clearer clarifications, because it is not least one of the main prerequisites that the civil service and those responsible for follow-up can do a better job. It will be very difficult for any underlying management of elected bodies to do a good job unless the message from Stortinget is clear. But to say that this is done so badly that the expectation that the Riksrevision has based was not comprehensive, and that the Riksrevision should understand the whole matter differently is to make demands on the Riksrevision that I find difficult to understand how it can be able to follow up on a professional basis. Furthermore, the Council of State, in clarifying the majority comment finally, where all parties except the Workers' Party are involved, said that there was an opinion among some employees of the enterprise. It is a very challenging statement from the senior executive of the undertakings to say that what the Committee has written here is a statement from some employees of the undertaking. I think that, at least for me, is a starting signal to get a much clearer debate about management in the health sector. It was a subject on which the Council of State was not at all concerned: the need for better management. More and more, it becomes clear that the governance model now in the public sector, which is particularly evident in health enterprises, is not working properly enough. The first bid in any democratic organisation is a common understanding of reality between management and those who do the job. We get a number of statements that this is not the case, not least here in the health sector, in the specialist health service, and I am very disappointed that the Council of State does not focus on that point. That is the most important thing, and I hope that the many who hear this debate, and who read these minutes, are now going into that area and get the debate higher on the agenda. Then there was the representative of Kolberg as mentioned mergers, and that the OUS should not, as much as the representative of the Central Party had said, form the basis for negative experiences for hospital mergers. In the setting, a unanimous committee says: ‘The Committee notes that the lack of improvement in patient treatment at the OYS is worrying and should be taken into account before political bodies decide, where appropriate, to initiate other hospital functions.’ It's a careful and sober description that there are problems a teacher has in order to do better. Trying to undermine it, I just don't think I'm right. What is needed in this area, as in several areas, is that we have a much more knowledge-based debate. On March 5, 2014, research.no published an interview with Professor Kurt R. Breek at the Norwegian School of Business, entitled «Gigant Hospital neither cheaper nor better». Breek here says that there are no effects on the quality or cost of mergers. That's the kind of assessment I think we as elected representatives need to put more emphasis on. We need to put greater emphasis on the academy. We need to focus more on stimulating free research, so that we can provide a research-based basis for our decisions. There are many research environments today that come to me and say that for them the basis for providing research is becoming increasingly poor. They say they'll be less heard. There's more superficiality, more vision. Martin Kolberg asked how we could be so wrong. That was good intentions. It was planned before we made the decisions. If it was planned before we made the decisions, the planning was necessarily wrong when you look at the result. I think it was both a bad plan, and that parts of it were wrong. I would like to conclude by saying that, as in the opinion of the Centre Party, the big issue in the public sector is in the case of hospitals – and here I repeat myself – it is management. Martin Kolberg said that this is not party politics, but a matter of system. Yeah, that's exactly what it is. It's a system issue. It's a matter of management system. And as the representative Karin Andersen said, here we need a review. There is no area of society where the system we have today has gone down as far as the specialist health service. I call for debate. I hope that many outside this hall will participate in it, so that we can get a sharp change of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1614	I think it has been interesting to hear this debate, which is now partly more a general discussion about management systems. I would just like to underline in the introduction that it is this government's policy that we should develop the first national, operational health and health plan, to be anchored in the Stortinget, precisely because it is our opinion that it is necessary that the Stortinget participate more fully in establishing more operational plans for the development of the specialist health service at a more general level in the years to come. We also have work related to the governance model itself. I thought, and still believe, that it was right, in a situation where I have gone from the role of head of the Health and Care Committee of the Storting, and have followed that process from that position, to being the Council of State that is responsible for the sector – while one is now dealing with a matter that concerns a period in which I was not responsible – to point out that, in my opinion, in terms of having a profit realization linked to this process, which is stronger than what one has been given, it would, in my opinion, have challenged what was not unclear, but, in my opinion, very clearly informed the previous government, that this process of conversion did not have to be carried out at a pace and with performance requirements that went beyond patient safety, quality and the relationship with the employees. That means that part of the criticism presented in the Riksrevision report, in my opinion, is based simply on the fact that the previous government did not push through clearer performance requirements in this process. It was really a very clear follow-up of what Stortinget meant, including myself as an opposition politician. I think it's right to point that out, and I'm a little surprised that the representative Lundtigen sees it the way he does. As far as management systems are concerned, I believe that there is a need to make changes to the management systems, but it is nevertheless quite right that management – in any case – is the most important, completely independent of the system. After all, a management is also about the overall level of management that has the operational responsibility, providing enough arm's length to actually assume management responsibilities. Therefore, I think it is very clear that it is right that a lot of the work currently being done, both in the evaluation of the process and in the planning of how Oslo University Hospital will develop further, including from a management perspective, that it is primarily anchored in the management and in the organisation that will use it. That's why I disagree with the Central Party's position that one should now lift that process out of the management of Oslo University Hospital and anchor that process in the Stortinget instead. It will just undermine the ability to lead such a large and complex organization. It is very good in the National Audit Office's report that it is necessary to continue working on and gripping, but it is also necessary to point out the areas where a person believes that there is a shade that has not come to a satisfactory conclusion. Part of the background to the establishment of Oslo University Hospital was that there was a border across the capital and between these hospitals. This meant that one failed, within the previous control model, where this limit existed, for example: establishing an overall capacity plan for the metropolitan area, creating functional ICT systems, patient management systems, which ensure that the information follows the patient regardless of whether a patient is being treated in one place or another. Oslo University Hospital operates at 40 different locations today. This is a work that has now come very far. The Management Board shall deal with a matter of response to the capacity challenge during the summer. The patient administration system for Oslo University Hospital is in an implementation phase, and it would not have been possible to achieve any of this if the hospitals in Oslo had belonged to different organisations. That's why you don't just have to draw a black picture of the situation you're in. At Oslo University Hospital, we have some of our top research environments. In cancer research, the OUS has research environments that are far beyond its borders. One has collected important functions and has the ability to see things as a whole. Therefore, there has been a broad political consensus that this was right, and I understand from the debate today that there is still a broad political consensus that it is right that the specialist health services in the capital area are organised under one management, one organisation called Oslo University Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1627	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1630	I am not going to spend time commenting on what I said quite clearly about the lack of consistency between what the Council of State now says versus what he said as opposition leader on the topic. That's what people can read. What I asked for is a management system. Governments said that management was most important regardless of management system. I fully agree with that. Regardless of the management system, it is possible to exercise better or good management within the system. The U.S. hospital was an example of it during July 22nd, when they set aside the clinic model and introduced local management and got a huge result in the terrible situation they were in. The Council of State says that it will now be evaluated and planned. I have the sense to evaluate, plan, think and go to the source of critical sense and do it better. But now the management perspective should be such that it must be anchored in the management involved in the matter. Yes, it must be. But this is what the Council of State said, it seemed that there is no need for the Storting to give any clear guidance on how this work should be done. To repeat: what is contained in the note on which all parties are involved in local management means that management must be present. That's one way to say it. Each Chairperson must be present on a daily basis at his/her level in relation to what is happening. One must be present so that one can give continuous advice, praise and corrections. That is what many specialist health professionals do not experience. They do not experience the presence and leadership of management – something that is absolutely necessary in everyday life. One shall not only lead through overall plans, evaluations, concepts and perspectives. You're supposed to be leading a daily life. A good leader is the leader of daily life – it must be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1644	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1658	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s investigation into the Health Directorate’s management of its tasks effectively, whether management has established appropriate management and follow-up systems and whether the Ministry of Health and Welfare has adequate senior management of the Directorate. The survey covers the period 2009-2012. First, I want to commend the National Audit Office for a thorough review of the Health Directorate, a good transparent documentation of the findings and clear recommendations for improvement where one has found shortcomings in the service. In 2002, eleven existing health and social services were brought together in three new establishments, including one of the new Social and Health Directorates. However, in 2008, the Directorate-General for Health changed its name to the Directorate of Health, while transferring responsibility for the social field to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. The establishment of the Directorate in 2002 established that the core tasks of the Directorate are linked to the implementation of social and health policies. Since 2008, this applies to the implementation of health policy as the social field was transferred to other directorates. Key instruments would be national action plans, information activities, regulatory and grant management. The Health Directorate is a large organisation, and in 2012 there were 712 employees divided into six divisions. The Directorate manages large financial resources, both for the operation of its own activities and in the form of grants and reimbursements to municipalities, non-governmental organisations and individuals. The Directorate’s activities premise the design of services in the health sector, both in the community and in hospitals, and thus have a major impact on the lives and health of the population. Any shortcomings in the activities of the Health Directorate could have significant societal implications, both for groups of people and for individuals. It is a problem that the National Audit Office of the Annual Audits has made more comments to the Health Directorate, including: in the case of accounting and budgeting. This is serious given that the directorate manages large sums of money for different groups and actions, and it should be expected that there is no cause for repeated comments in this area. Proper management and accounting of such significant resources as the Directorate manages is necessary for the Directorate to have the necessary trust in the management of society’s resources. The Health Directorate’s own evaluation studies have shown that the Directorate has challenges related to, for example: processing times and coordination with other departments. With regard to the time of proceedings, the Executive Board itself has established what is reasonable time of action and one may slowly ask whether it is appropriate for the executive body to determine for itself what is to be regarded as acceptable time of treatment of different types of proceedings. The findings of the National Audit Office have revealed that in many cases the directorate’s own set deadlines have been significantly exceeded and the proportion of cases in which the deadline has been exceeded varies from 21 p.m. to 21 p.m. to 83 pst., depending on subject area. With regard to interpretation of the law, it is a major problem that very many of these cases take a long time, and established standard time has been far exceeded. This implies, in part, that the person addressing the directorate, for example: The County also has a long time to deal with its ‘customers’, or one invariably refuses to ask the Directorate for an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework. This, in turn, could lead to different legal practices in different parts of the country. This is unacceptable as it could be contrary to the principle of equal treatment for citizens. The Health Directorate does not systematically examine the impact of grants to municipalities on the target population and the results of the grant schemes. Since the Directorate-General for Health is required to develop future legislation for its activities, it will not have a qualitatively sufficient basis to update the services in line with the experience of the target population when these data are not systematised. This is a large area and in 2012 the Health Directorate managed 171 grant schemes with a total budget of approximately 9.5 billion. kr. With a portfolio of 171 grant schemes, it goes without saying that, without having experience of how to hit the target audience that is intended to be a grant or its effect, there may also be a waste of grant funds that are provided from a health perspective. Thus, there is a large untapped potential in the reporting by beneficiaries that could strengthen the basis for the annual budgetary work and further development of the grant management. The Ministry of Health and Health’s mission to the Directorate of Health is too extensive, too detailed and mainly concentrated on one of the directorate’s assigned roles. In 2012, the letter of award from the Ministry contained 60 objectives and 60 management parameters without defined performance requirements. In addition, the mission included 122 requirements for the performance of specific activities and tasks. This is a large number, and it is after that the department has already reduced by about 10 % over the period 2009–2012. 40 pst. The many objectives and requirements as well as the large element of activity management mean that a large proportion of the directorate’s resources are tied up in tasks defined by the ministry. This limits the freedom of the Directorate to choose the means and activities leading to the overall objective. According to the National Audit Office’s report, the Health Directorate is responsible for 52 national professional guidelines, 153 supervisors, 36 national plans and 40 grant schemes targeting municipalities, and further manages the Directorate no less than 28 health-related laws and regulations. As a result of unbridled planning and grant schemes, with a low level of experience, there may have been too extensive and complicated bureaucracy in the Health Directorate. One should now look at the possibilities of simplifying and reducing legislation and planning in areas where this can be done. Such a review must be experience-based if a qualitative improvement is to be achieved. Such a review may meet the need for better and simpler governance dialogue with the Ministry of Health and Welfare as requested by the Riksaudition conclusions. The Riksrevision report shows that the Council of State broadly agrees with the Riksrevision’s comments on governance and control and activities contained in the letter of assignment to the Directorate. It is reassuring that the views of the Council of State coincide with those of the National Audit Office and that he will help the Department and the Directorate jointly develop a target structure adapted to the Directorate's instrument. With the central position of the Health Directorate as a pre-miss provider for health services in municipalities and hospitals, the comments of the National Audit Office must be considered serious and work on improvements in the areas identified, systematised and prioritised. Since many of the weaknesses referred to can be traced back to lack of activity or understanding by management, it is also expected that development of good management will be prioritised at all levels of management, where one puts the recipient in focus. Finally, I would like to refer to the recommendations of the National Audit Office in the light of their review, to which the Committee subscribes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1694	This matter concerns the opinion of the Committee on the National Audit Office on the effectiveness and achievement of its objectives in the Directorate for Health. The survey covers the period 2009-2012. The importance of the study comes from the fact that the Health Directorate manages large public resources and has a very large number of competent staff, making important premises for the entire Norwegian healthcare system. The work carried out in the Directorate for Health has a major impact on the health of individuals and on the community. The National Audit Office's report has three main findings. The first is weaknesses in business management. One example is that, in many cases, the length of the procedure is too long. The proportion of non-compliance cases varies from 21 pst. to 83 pst. for the five types of cases covered by the survey. In this respect, the Riksrevision believes that the Health Directorate does not place sufficient emphasis on achieving a good target. In everyday speech, this means that the Directorate does not take its own deadlines seriously. Then it's a leadership task to clean up. The study shows that there are differences between disciplines. The study highlights that guidelines are up-to-date and that the allocation of responsibilities between departments is clear with regard to grant management. It's positive. Similar work on management, cooperation and internal guidelines must be carried out throughout the Directorate. Another main finding is weaknesses in the follow-up to professional work. It is linked to the length of legal interpretation procedures, differences between municipalities applying for different grant schemes and the implementation of guidelines. It is not satisfactory at all that the average duration of proceedings in legal interpretation cases is 92 days, and that in three out of four cases the directorate exceeds the deadlines set by the directorate itself, and is considered reasonable. Interpretations of the law are necessary for proper and equivalent proceedings. It is worrying that the county authorities inform the Riksrevision that they have been detained for a long period of time in order to promote requests for interpretation of the law. This can inhibit non-discrimination and have consequences for individuals and is therefore serious. The Health Directorate is an important professional body in Health-Norway and provides professional advice and guidance to all authorities and actors in the sector. In 2012, the Directorate had around 150 supervisors and 50 professional guidelines on its websites. These are professionally important tools developed by professionals and legitimate environments. The National Audit Office points out that only one third of the guides and guidelines completed between 2009 and 2010 had at the same time a plan for implementation. The National Audit Office further indicates that major municipalities are using the publications. Strengthening implementation is important to get the professional message out where subjects meet patients, and will contribute to equivalent services of higher quality in our country. The position of the Committee is essentially unanimous. However, the Labour Party is not in favour of a comment together with the majority parties where a statement that there may have been too extensive bureaucracy in the Directorate and that it should be considered to reduce legislation and planning in some areas. It will be useful for the majority in this debate or in the near future to comment on the elements of health legislation in mind. We believe that the Riksrevision report rather shows the need to have good management throughout the organisation, make use of past experience, share good experience between departments, have good internal control and clear assignments and resources between the department and the directorate. The majority have also called for an assessment of the functioning of the Interaction Reform after two years. This issue is not really included as a problem in the Riksrevision survey, but once the issue has been raised, there should be some brief comments. Interaction reform strengthens healthcare through four main interventions: more preventive health work, more cooperation within and between health care levels, a better health service closer to where people live, and an advanced specialist health service following the research front. The clear main picture is that this is achieved, in small municipalities and in large municipalities, for the benefit of the inhabitants. It is a new giver in local preventive health work and large local involvement. Local authorities know that the most important preventive measures are taken in sectors other than health. Hospitals and municipalities have all made cooperation agreements. More often and more often, the right person speaks in a hospital with the right person in a municipality, so that the municipality can prepare before a patient who needs local treatment or care comes home. Fewer people are in hospital, and only wait for a hospital place that is missing in the municipality, and the municipalities are strengthened by approx. 0.5 B.C.E. kr to be able to solve this problem. More municipalities than before cooperate on local medical centres and in other ways. The pace of development needs to be adapted to the time it takes for a Norwegian municipality to build up its competence in this area. Then I would like to refer to the comments of the Central Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens on changes in the governance systems of the state. I made a similar comment in the debate on the subject of Innst. 123 S for 2013–2014 and Documents 1 for 2013–2014 and then stressed that values and direction are of primary importance at management level, while objectives and internal control are necessary at all operational levels. To bring this over to the matter in question: The matter we are discussing here today would be very abstract – difficult to discuss in concrete terms – if there had not been a target for, for example. legal proceedings. It is useful management information for us to get small municipalities in Norway to benefit less than much from grant schemes. Improvements can then be targeted and provide better services, for the benefit of citizens. Finally, in this opinion, an overall committee considers that the Riksrevision report is serious and that work on improvements must be prioritised – seriously and as a priority. The Committee meets the follow-up of the State Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1715	The Health Directorate has an important, overall role. If the Health Directorate does a thorough, comprehensible and precise job, it's much easier for the underlying organizations to follow it up. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to assess whether the Directorate of Health manages its tasks effectively, whether management has established appropriate management and follow-up systems and whether the Ministry of Health and Welfare has adequate senior management of the Directorate. So the National Auditorate has assessed whether the Health Directorate works on the basis of the intention that I started with. As the representative Are Health said, the Health Directorate will not be particularly well off in the National Audit Office's searchlight – to put it diplomatically. There are significant weaknesses in the management of activities. There are challenges in the management and follow-up of professional work. I stop doing that – at the technical work. It must be expected that the best professional staff are in general positions where they can provide the best professional advice downwards. Such an indication is very important. The National Audit Office also points out that the mission from the Department to the Directorate is too detailed. The comments are not special, but I would like to make a few comments on the comments from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, which once again try to focus on why we are in the situation that there are very many goals and a lot of demands to be met, and that one in practice is doing little good to follow it up. It's nice on the paper, but in practice it looks completely different. I'm not going to keep any long posts, just cold and soberly pointing out that there are increasing numbers who join the criticism of the governance model that is in English called New Public Management. What the Riksrevision does is that they carry out their assessment on the basis of the objectives and governance signals given by the Stortinget and the Ministry for Public Activities. It shows that a sail doesn't manage to follow it up well. The National Audit Service takes New Public Management seriously and says that the way it is practised, it works poorly. What is our special comment is that we still want goals, but we want few and qualitative goals. We want goals – as the representative of Health said – where values and directions must be essential. Our position is that employees must be involved in shaping the objectives within the framework of overall policy and annual budgetary frameworks to be implemented. This is the core of a common sense of reality: one has master messages and draws the whole flock. One gets excited because one is working on this. This implements one with no very many objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1732	The Health Directorate is important because it has tasks of major importance for the development of quality in health services, for the follow-up to decisions, for guidance and for supervision. A little bit about the debate on target management: I fully agree with the Labour Party representative that measuring how long it takes to get an answer to a legal interpretation, for example, is an objective that makes sense to sit down and that can be answered correctly. It's a problem that it takes a long time. This is important to clarify, precisely because part of this interpretation of the law is about issues where there may be particularly vulnerable people waiting for a health service or for help from, for example. Nav or social service. It is very important that the interpretation of the law in such cases goes quickly. When I'm critical of part of this target management, it's not because it's not possible to set such goals in some areas. That's right. The intentions behind this are almost always good. voters and the public are constantly asking: what has the money been spent on? So we're asking for new measurements and measurement parameters to figure out – and give a good answer – what this money is spent on, as exact as possible. It is not always that this provides the best services. I want to mention an example. I was one of the great proponents for us to oversee what is now called Social Services in Nav. This supervision is the responsibility of the Health Inspectorate, and it is the county officials who carry it out. There have been three reports here. The first report is about, by the way, the municipalities are violating the Law on Social Services in Nav. They do. This applies to the most disadvantaged. The offences were quite serious. People were not helped to submit their application in a proper, comprehensive and complete way. It was, for example: not even asking if people had children or not. If families had children, very few found counting these children in height. Something particularly about what these children needed – perhaps something quite different from what their parents needed – was not found out. It was very serious what we found out. I have engaged myself very much in this and entered into it. But after contacting the individual municipalities and individuals about something of this, it is nevertheless not certain that in the municipalities that had the counterpoints in order – had all the systems and everything on their care – people were given good help. But in some of the municipalities that didn't have the counting edges in order, it happened that people got good help anyway, sail if it wasn't listed properly on the form. There's a paradox about any of this, that we kind of think that we can control ourselves to professionalism. Therefore, SV considers that there is a need to have a major review of the governance philosophy. One of the most important things, which I will also get a little bit more back to in the next case, is about trust, some kind of trust reform, and then not only to the management, which I see that our prime minister has now been to the Specter Conference and said, but to the professionals who are actually going to do the important jobs in practice, on the floor of the Nav office, in the municipal health service, in the specialist health service. They actually have to get more room to do their job professionally. But I also need to ask the Council of States a very specific question. We have to supervise, and we have to have good oversight. I listened to the Political Quarter yesterday morning, and there was a debate that I'm not going to get into here, that was about the reservation system, which I'll choose to call it. Then the Council of State answers, when SV proposes supervision that doctors should do what they should, that supervision is like nothing. That's how I perceived the Council of States. That is why I am asking now: what does the Council of State think such supervision should be? Do they have a value and a quality? And is it such that the Council of State believes that if you decide that it should be supervised, for example? that decision-makers do what is their task, shall it be implemented? And if the Storting decides, will the Council of State then follow it up loyally?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1751	The Council of State shall have the opportunity to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1754	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter and the vote. The National Audit Office has carried out a management audit of the effectiveness and performance of the Health Directorate. The report submitted is very thorough and serious, and the Ministry has largely joined the Riksrevision's comments and recommendations. In the governance dialogue with the Health Directorate and in the 2014 award letter, the Ministry has asked the Health Directorate for follow-up. To illustrate this, I will explain the follow-up to the report and highlight some of the measures that the Directorate has now taken. The responsibility for the follow-up to the National Audit Office's observations is anchored in top management, and there are separate processes for the most heavily affected divisions. This year, the Directorate implements a separate management tool for planning, execution, management and management. The Directorate has developed a new strategic plan for the period 2014-2018 and this plan is reviewed annually. Several elements of the strategic plan are directly linked to the Riksrevision findings. Priority areas in 2014 include: strengthening the standardisation role, i.e. working on guidelines, guides and circulars, as well as the need for overall management and governance. A separate project will also be set up in the Directorate for Health to further enhance the quality of grant management. A grant management tool shall be acquired in 2014. This shall contribute to a more effective follow-up and evaluation. This will provide better methods and tools for assessing the arrangements, follow-up and impact of the grants. In addition, a system of dissemination of good results with national transmission value is established. I want to work to improve the governance dialogue with the Health Directorate. It is important to ensure a proper balance in how the activities perform their three main roles, which are professional advice, the implementation of adopted policies and the performance of permanent management tasks. In the 2014 letter of assignment, I have reduced the number of assignments significantly compared to 2013. It is also an objective to establish a more appropriate target structure for activities and to facilitate reporting procedures between the Directorate and the Department. But I must nevertheless stress that we are faced with a significant complex picture of the challenge. As reported in the National Audit Office’s report, during the current audit period, the Health Directorate was responsible for 52 national professional guidelines, 153 supervisors, 36 national plans and 40 different grant schemes targeted at municipalities. In addition, it managed 28 health-related laws and regulations. The list of tasks may be supplemented by a number of other permanent management tasks as well as major and important investigative tasks for the Ministry. The tasks of the Directorate for Health have been delegated by the Ministry and the scope has been accumulated over many years under changing governments. It has not been done in a manual to reduce or reduce established tasks. The health and care sectors are very extensive and consume considerable resources. New offers are being created, the rights and expectations of the population are increasing, and the cost of providing services is also linked to technological developments. Effective use of resources, good quality and reductions in waiting times are required, and priority is needed at all levels. This image keeps changing the service. New measures are being implemented in the service and in the administration to respond to challenges arising from development. At the same time, however, it is important that the Health Directorate prioritises better among the tasks of the Ministry, also in order to limit the growth of central health and care management. In 2014, the Health Directorate has also received an efficiency requirement of 20 million. kr, while requiring better reporting on the impact of the grant schemes. This, in turn, will result in a greater reporting burden for both municipalities and private beneficiaries than they currently have. This is because the Health Directorate should be able to report on the results achieved further to the Department and the Majority. It is also necessary to carry out the necessary evaluations to assess the impact of the different grant schemes. I would like to stress that I want a close follow-up to the Health Directorate's work on closing down the deviations that the Riksrevision here reveals. I have had my own meeting with the management of the Health Directorate and the employees this week, where I also highlighted the importance of the directorate following up the report of the National Audit Office. So the question of national supervision. I have great faith in national supervision when national supervision is used for what is meant by national supervision, that is to give us a good overview of the current rules, and that professional guidelines are followed up, so that we have a good tool to improve the service. We get an annual summary of national supervision. I just want to stress that national supervision does not fall under the responsibility of this case or of the Health Directorate, but under the responsibility of the Health Authority, but since Andersen took this up, I found it necessary to answer. We also get an annual summary of national supervision. The aim of this government is to make its own annual reporting on patient safety and quality. It is then natural that national supervision should be included as part of the annual monitoring message, just as the National Supervisory Authority is included in the annual monitoring message on privacy and data security. National supervision gives us a picture of the situation based on a sample of representative health care units. The placing on the market of national supervision as an instrument for an overview of the individuals currently reserved in breach of the legislation is, therefore, the marketing of national supervision as something other than that. That's the challenge of SV's proposals. Then one more describes this as asking the statesmen to identify the situation in the municipalities. Well, that's what the previous government asked the county officials to do, and so the county officials are local health authorities. This report gave a very small overview – to put it that way – of a requested person, and it has probably also been recognised by the previous government. Then one must come to the conclusion that the legislation currently in force does not function properly whose aim is to have an overview of the practice of individual decision-makers. However, when we have put in place a new legislation that makes the municipalities more responsible to have an overview of the practice of decision-makers in this area, I do not exclude the fact that it is quite natural to have a national regulatory body that investigates whether the new legislation is working properly. In this way, national supervision is an excellent tool, but in the way it is marketed by the Socialist Left Party, it will be a very poor tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1790	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1793	After hearing the statements of the Council of State right now, I think we can agree that there is really a very broad consensus on how serious the situation is in the Health Directorate, and that the Council of State has presented to the Storting all that he wants to do, and take the guarantee that it will be implemented, and that the Health Directorate itself has also taken action. All of this is very good, and it is very constructive, I believe, given the criticism that lies there from the Riksrevision, to which the committee has so emphatically joined – practically unanimously – on all these serious points. It's not in itself a line like that, but I'd like to have the Council of State talk about why it's become like it's been in the Directorate. It's a difficult thing, it's a big thing, and maybe it's a little short in lines, but it's okay to get such an exchange of views between the Council of State and me on these things. That's why I'm opening up with that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1800	I don't think there's any simple answer to that question, but I was a little bit into it in my post. The tasks and scope of the tasks assigned to the Directorate are very demanding, both the scope and the design of national guidelines, guides, plans, etc. These are often plans, supervisors, etc. initiated here in the Storting or by changing governments, and tasks are put on top of each other without perhaps being aware of whether new tasks should lead to other tasks. Then we have a comprehensive grant management. 40 different grants shall be administered only to the municipalities. In addition, there is a substantial contribution to the voluntary sector. When all this is to be evaluated and checked, it becomes demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1807	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1823	The first speaker is Erik Skutle, on behalf of the President-in-Office, Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1826	I would like to make a brief presentation on behalf of the case rapporteur on the Riksrevision's study on effectiveness in Norwegian hospitals, Document 3:4 for 2013–2014, on the matter, on the majority observations in the case and on the comments of the Court of Justice. The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to assess whether it is possible to streamline the organisation of patient care in hospitals in order to improve resource use. Using register data on four treatment modalities, differences in productivity have been estimated between hospitals. Average downtime has been used as an indicator of productivity. The relationship between lying time and efficacy of patient treatment has been further elucidated. A hospital is effective when it has a short bedtime and does not have a worse quality of treatment than the national average. In-depth studies have been carried out in nine hospitals to identify factors that may contribute to short lay times, effective treatment courses and high use of the operating room. The survey includes data from the period 2009 to 2013 inclusive. The Committee points out that there is an objective of providing the population with an equivalent quality of health care and that one of the main objectives of the Special Health Service Act is to contribute to the optimal use of the resources of the specialist health service. The Committee further points out that there should always be good medical evaluations on the basis of which patients should be treated in the specialist healthcare system, and that this is pointed out in the Riksrevision report. The Committee notes that the report points out that many hospitals can improve the effectiveness of patient treatment by learning from others. The Committee has also noted that the study shows that the average lying time varies between hospitals. It should be noted that if all hospitals had had average lay time at the same level as the hospital with the shortest lay time, it could reduce the number of lay days by 34 pst each year. for hip replacements, 19 pst. for hip fracture, 100 pst. for cross-band operations and 24 pst. for colon cancer. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that it is right that hospitals can become more effective by reducing the number of days spent lying and by making better use of operating rooms. The Committee also notes that the Riksrevision report refers to the fact that better use of the operating rooms in some hospitals can reduce health cows. Many patients could get shorter waiting time for surgery if all hospitals had used the capacity of operating rooms as well as the best. The Committee points out that the study shows that short-term hospitals have the same quality of patient treatment as longer-term hospitals. The Committee therefore considers, in the same way as the National Audit Office, that the Ministry of Health and Health and Regional Health should ensure that the experience gained from hospitals with effective treatment and high use of the operating rooms is transferred to other hospitals. The Committee considers that there is a significant point that a more multidisciplinary and standardised treatment process would result in more efficient operation and thus reduce health cows. As with the National Audit Office, the Committee therefore recommends that healthcare companies establish multi-disciplinary standardised treatment courses for major patient groups. Finally, the Committee refers to the response of the Ministry of Health and Welfare to the further consideration of the management indicators highlighting productivity developments, as outlined under the heading ‘Follow-up of the Ministry’. The Committee meets the concrete follow-up of the Council of State to the regional health establishments in the areas described in the report. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Workers’ Party, emphasises that reporting, cost-based financing and patient-based management must never ignore the quality of patient treatment. The patient-treatment meeting should always be the most important. I also read the comment from the Workers' Party. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party stress that reporting, cost-based financing and management per patient should not delay the quality of patient treatment. The patient-treatment meeting should always be the most important. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre point to the fact that, although efficiency indicators cannot always be based on objectively safe comparisons, they provide a starting point for thinking about achieving objectives assessed by the effort of resources. There may be very complex reasons behind the different results. A fair assessment of a hospital and its performance also requires knowledge of differences in framework conditions. In comparison with two hospitals, the same healthcare services may arise with variations due to non-measurable conditions. The right, Progression Party and Center Party further indicate that care weights may vary between individual patients and groups of patients. Different results may also be due to different conditions relating to equipment, buildings and location. Different operating conditions may also be due to differences in the management of the capital side such as investments, maintenance and the operating consequences thereof. The Right Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party will stress that these may be matters that are often outside the scope of day-to-day management, because decisions on such framework conditions are often taken at other levels of government. At the same time, it is also clear that non-physical factors can have a decisive impact on the results, such as management characteristics, involvement, willingness to learn, personnel management and knowledge of logistics and work processes that are not perceived as the core competences of hospitals. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party will point out that, in a comparative Nordic perspective, Norwegian hospitals are not the most effective. Hospital researchers, who are not necessarily unanimous, have pointed to inappropriate political management organisation, central governance, rigid pay structure and low levels of cooperation with private individuals. Furthermore, the Right Party and the Advance Party consider that public-private cooperation should be developed more as a benchmark for efficiency, for learning and for innovation. The Right Party and the Advance Party point out that there is a need for more systematic cooperation with private healthcare providers that comply with internationally recognised certification schemes and that public-owned hospitals should in principle submit to internationally recognised certification in order to ensure patient quality. Furthermore, the Right Party and the Progressive Party would stress that, when patient quality is ensured at a stable high level, resources could be compared on a safer basis regardless of regionality. Finally, I would like to say that the Riksrevision's studies show that a hospital with a short sleep period has the same quality of patient treatment as a hospital with a longer sleep period. There is no significant link between bedtime and the proportion of patients who have to be re-entered and die within one year of surgery. Patients who have been treated in a hospital with a short sleep period also have an equally good functional level one year after the operation, which shows that the capacity of the hospital sector has not been fully exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1864	This matter concerns the referral from the Committee to the National Audit Office’s examination of the effectiveness of hospitals. The aim of the study has been to examine whether it is possible to streamline patient treatment in hospitals so that even more people can receive treatment. The survey covers the period 2009–2013, and on the basis of four treatment modalities, average hospital lietime is compared and a long lietime/treatment outcome relationship has been investigated. Furthermore, the Riksrevision has conducted an in-depth study in nine hospitals to identify factors that can explain good results. The main findings of the study are that hospitals can become more effective. Hospitals can learn more from each other in terms of management and organisation, and two quality indicators should be clarified. For the most part, most of us think that our hospitals are quite similar when it comes to choosing and implementing a treatment course. The National Audit Office shows that it's not like that. Some hospitals spend many days repairing the cross-band in my knee, while others do it in one day without accommodation. This happens at the same time as there are waiting times and shortages of many types of professionals for hospitals. Therefore, the study is relevant and important. The Riksrevision has shown that the average bedtime varies from three to eleven days for the insertion of a new hip, from five to ten days for the hip fracture surgery, from zero to four days for the knee thoracic cord surgery and from seven to eleven days for the colon cancer surgery. I believe that the political understanding of numbers like this should be the following: we should neither expect nor strive to see that there are variations in bedtime. Some hospitals may have several patients who need more follow-up, and geographical variations may lead to differences in printing practices. But the variation shown here is too big. They simply express that others who are waiting are not getting help because the treatment schedules are not good enough everywhere. The study covers only four treatment forms, but the findings may be totally or partially representative of the whole. As mentioned above, the study shows that a minority of hospitals perform knee-to- knee-to- knee surgery, while a majority use hospitalisation for up to four days. Right now is interesting as such, but the crucial thing is how fresh we get. Can this knee be used for a Sunday tour? This study shows that day-care hospitals do not have a lower quality of treatment than the others. What can explain that hospitals choose to organize themselves so differently? It may be related to the following: until 2010, hospitals received the same appropriations through the payment system for operations regardless of whether they were hospitalisation or day surgery. From 2010, this has changed and the payment has been adapted to the estimated costs of the hospital, which are lower in day-care than in hospitalisation. At the level of the department, this may have been an economic incentive to switch to day surgery until 2010 and an equivalent economic incentive for post-2010 accommodation. I would like to raise the following points: For this very reason, the use of payment systems is entirely at department level as a general error. The National Audit Office has also examined the use of training institutions for hip patients after hospitalisation. The findings are quite surprising and show that some hospitals refer one in ten patients to such training, while others refer nine out of ten. A normal stay will last from one to three weeks. I expect that it can be professionally clarified what should be the main recommendation in this area in our healthcare. As I said, lying time is one thing, but the Riksrevision has fortunately searched for answers to the main question: Is there a relationship between how long we're hospitalized and how fresh we get, for example. after an operation for colon cancer? By looking at the number of persons re-entered after discharge, the number of persons required to operate once more, death within 30 days and death within one year of the operation, the answer is that hospitals with short-term admissions have as good results as hospitals with long-term admissions. The national audit has produced an important report, which needs to be followed up. The findings are clear and methodological nuances do not change the overall picture. At the same time, there is also optimism in the report. Many hospitals have already received a lot of brief introductions, at least as good results and freed up hours and days to help more people. Many steps in this matter are simple: to clarify the use of indicators for hip fractures and colon cancer, to correct the understanding and use of the day-care payment system by management, and – I believe it is crucial – to give status to a culture in which departments and hospitals learn from other colleagues who have come the longest with the best organisation – to the joy of patients. To conclude, as the rapporteur said, there is an overall committee in the vote that we are attending the concrete follow-up of the Council of State to the regional health companies in the areas described in the Riksrevision report.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1890	I will essentially join the representative Are Health's experience, knowledge-based introduction. It did good to listen to. It is a health care objective that the population should have equivalent good quality healthcare, not least in any place of residence, which is a major challenge for the population of Norway. It is one of the main objectives that we should contribute to the optimum use of resources in the specialist health service. This study examines the fact that many hospitals can make patient treatment more effective by learning from others. And as the representative of Health said, the study shows that a hospital with a short bedtime has the same quality of patient treatment as a hospital with a longer bedtime. This is a master knowledge to which the Center Party subscribes. In the setting there are some majority and minority comments, and we have a special majority constellation and a minority constellation in two sections that ends up with the exact same sentence, where it says: ‘The patient-treatment meeting shall always be the most important’. I guess that's the most important sentence in this setting. If everyone who works both politically and professionally on these issues, that's the focus, that's to encourage everything a doer does to make the meeting between patients and treatment the best possible, and that everything that's involved in deceiving that meeting should be gone or improved, then we're on a path that's pointed to those degrees and that easily creates a common sense of reality. I think the sentence that not least those who sit in the diplomats should notice after this debate is that there is the meeting between patients and treatment who should always be the most important, and that all the management philosophy in this sector should focus on it. So let's see how much you have to develop it in order for it to be practiceable. Then I have a few brief comments on the question of shorter bedtime. It's very dependent on a municipal offer, as the Center Party points out. After all, it was the important objective of the Interaction Reform that a person should be given a better municipal offer and, as a result, also a shorter lay time in the specialist hospitals. Not least, it was essential in many hospitals — to put it that way — where one might have been influenced by the culture of having a local hospital as a relief for what was municipal responsibility. When one then gets a shorter bedtime, there is a need for fewer beds, but one must also have the need for capacity for emergency reasons. So one has to have more thoughts with it all the time. I would also like to stress that those who have a long journey to their specialist hospital will in many cases need overnight stays before and after treatment, and it would be unfortunate if patients had to take costs if they had a long journey. In the end, I just want to say that the study, as I said, is relevant and important, but it needs to be interpreted with solid knowledge of practice, and a holistic patient approach is crucial for the overall quality of treatment provision where the body, mind and social situation are seen in the context. When comparing individual factors across regions, it is important that one interprets this critically and looks at different disease pressures and different socio-economic and other relationships between regions in order to obtain the best possible picture of the whole. However, as mentioned, the study shows the need to look more closely at each other and to learn more from each other on the basis that there will be a meeting between patients and those who will be in the centre of the sun.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1910	I agree with the post that Lundtägen had just made. Sickhouse is one of the most important things for people, and you want to go there quickly if you need it. I don't think anyone wants to stay in hospitals for a long time, but I think there's a little difference between people. Some people need longer time, e.g. to be reassured or comforted in retrospect. That is why I am also pleased with the nuances that have been here today – effectiveness must be that the patient is receiving the best possible treatment. I think we are struggling a little with some of the language in these matters. It is again linked to these new – or, they are no longer new – governance philosophies where, for example: talks about ‘profit-making’, which I respond to. That must be good patient treatment we're going to talk about. And when there's something wrong, it's not about closing an anomaly, but about giving a patient the treatment the patient should have, whether it's medical or human. So I think we need to review our language a little bit when we're talking about health policy and health efficiency. Effectiveness is important, but it is also important that a person has management systems that make a person feel that it is most important to achieve efficiency. Many systems have been put in place to incentivise hospitals to become as effective as possible and to compare hospitals, for example. in the course of treatment and the kind of things that you do in this report from the National Audit Office, I think are very useful. I believe that the argument that patients such as enter femoral fractures, not to lie down for hours, not primarily about effectiveness, but about the patient’s treatment that people need. To put it that way, you don't just have to be concerned about efficiency to think that it's wrong for an old man with femoral fractures to lie for two days before he gets treatment. I think it is politically important that we see that. However, some of these governance mechanisms that we have put in place to motivate it to become more effective are, of course, grounds for questioning. We in SV made a big report a couple of years ago. There we went through a lot of this. Among other things, we had contact with the Medical Association, and three out of four doctors believed that the hospital’s financial priorities largely prevented them from carrying out the work in the best possible way. So there were some steering signals that prevented the professional, medical – what you were supposed to be there for – from happening. Models, e.g. with input-driven funding, we have had examples of hospitals distorting their attention, use of money or efforts towards the area where best income is obtained. It's wrong, and it makes sense to check whether this can be done in another way. I'm not going to go back in time, sail if I was in the hospital for eight years when we had them in the county council, and probably think it would have been quite possible to get both modern and efficient operations with another owner. But the main problem here is the way we're dealing with it. In this context, SV – and many others, I know – have seen what has happened in Scotland. In Scotland, they have closed the business model, they have closed the single-price financing, they have cut out ordering-executor models, and they have taken over large private hospitals. They have even removed excesses in health services, both on medical visits and on medicines. Some of us were on a study trip there last week. Everyone there agreed that the transition to framework funding had been a success, and they are now using the DRG system just to get information, which does not affect funding. They believe that it was easier to prioritise health properly when they removed what they called ‘perverse incentives’. They had also taken the initiative to remove more layers of bureaucracy, and that must be something that this government must be willing to look at, because it is possible when you do it another way. Of course, they have also put in place mechanisms so that the downside of framework funding, namely that hospitals tended to run out of money at the end of the year, has been countered by various measures. They are allowed to raise money or borrow, and they also have to have a type of long-term budgeting. A common claim for the benefit of the governance mechanisms we use to a large extent is that they need to be available to reduce waiting times and increase efficiency. But in Scotland, it turns out that with a completely different control model, they have reduced waiting times and are much more effective with patients. The important thing is to put professionals in the centre – that those who are going to meet patients will have time and space to use their professional judgement to run the healthcare system. I'm not going to spend any more time on this right now. I just want to say something about the reason why SV has submitted these comments in these cases. It is precisely because there is a need for other governance mechanisms if we are to reach what everyone here agrees on, namely that it is the meeting between the patient and the therapist that should always be the most important thing. Then we need to have more trust and more armaments, and not have economic incentives that allow us – to say that – to look for profit realization and not for the very best patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1923	In the study of effective hospitals, the National Audit Office has found that many hospitals can become more effective by learning from hospitals with short lay time, effective patient conduct and high use of operating rooms. The National Audit Office has produced an interesting, concrete and relevant report. I am concerned that the specialist health service becomes familiar with and learns from this. In the business meeting that I had in January, the report was distributed, and I encouraged the hospitals – the new boards of health regions – to use reports from the National Audit Office and supervisory authorities as a basis for their improvement work. The study shows that an effective course of patients does not go at the expense of quality in patient treatment. Operational rooms can be better used. Many hospitals can increase productivity if they learn from short-term hospitals, effective treatment courses and high capacity utilisation. I therefore agree with the Committee's recommendation that health establishments should establish multi-disciplinary standardised treatment courses. This I know you're doing well with some places in the country. Health West has created its own progress manual that describes the preparation, introduction and follow-up of standardised patient courses. The members of the Committee from the Centre Party, SV and the Green Party express their concern that hospitals should become ‘body workshops’. That's exactly what it's going to prevent, that one sees the course of the individual patient through the treatment, through the hospital, instead of the hospital being organized according to body parts, or what may be even more common, after what education those who work there have. I also fully agree that the most important thing in our healthcare system at any level is the meeting between patients and health professionals. That's what I pulled out in my hospital speech in January as the moment of truth. This is when the individual patient experiences the quality of healthcare. Many of the quality indicators that we have, and which are given great attention, are very much about medical quality, but we also need to integrate patient-experienced quality into the way we evaluate our hospitals and healthcare. Then, not least, the moments of truth, the meeting between patients and health professionals, are crucial. It is a management task to facilitate the best possible use of these meetings. Of course, the resources of society must be used in the best possible way, and no one is served with a low-efficiency specialist healthcare service. Health undertakings have the overall responsibility for operating and investing within the limits set by the Storting. Bad equipment and after-shave shall neither be an explanation nor an excuse for inefficient operation. Hospitals are large companies of competence. Dedicated employees contribute to continuous improvement. Akershus University Hospital had lower results in 2010 and 2011 than the national 30-day survival average after hip fractures. In 2012, they improved and reached the national average. In 2013, the hospital has taken more measures to further improve the quality of these patients, and even better results are expected. In the area of cancer, we shall reduce waiting time that is not medically justified. In case of concrete suspicion of a type of cancer, the patient shall enter a package course. This implies a national standard for the duration of the different elements of such a process. The Directorate for Health is now preparing the package for the different forms of cancer based on Danish experience and the Norwegian treatment guidelines. A separate cycle of distribution, or metastases, without specifying the type of cancer, and a diagnostic cycle shall also be established for patients with non-specific symptoms of severe cancer. These package trajectories will be completed in 2014 and can thus be implemented in 2015. Once they're implemented, we can complete today's standard trajectory. Many ask, then, whether this will mean that cancer takes advantage of other health - care diagnostics. My answer to that is no. This will mean that cancer becomes a locomotive for how we want healthcare to develop in other areas. I am therefore pleased that the Committee is so clear that looking at patient history is the way in which health care is organised in the future. The Government shall also introduce free treatment choices. The waiting time has to decrease and the quality has to rise. That is why we will also use all the good forces and let go of those who want to contribute. In order to ensure a highly publicly funded health service that is trusted by the population, we need to focus on improving public health services. We must create a better offer for patients through increased competition and freedom of choice. In this way, we ensure that public hospitals are the cornerstone of a public system in which the sick are first treated. Now we are preparing for the introduction of free treatment options. Proposals for legislative changes will be consulted this year, and my ambition is that we can introduce free treatment choices in the field of drugs and mental health in 2015. The Riksrevision study shows that it is possible to use the capacity of public hospitals by making public hospitals better and more efficient. Free hospital choice shall be an incentive for public hospitals to become better and more effective. Several patients want to be treated at their nearest public hospital, but if the quality is not good enough and they experience unreasonable waiting, yes, then the hospital deserves that the patient chooses treatment from others. I believe that there is a link between the previous case, this case and the results we have received from the national quality registers. In the previous case, we were concerned that the directorate's treatment guidelines are too little implemented in the service. In this case, we also clearly see that the hospitals that implement what is recommended treatment and implement it also experience higher efficiency and better quality. Just before Christmas, I opened the first national portal for the medical quality records. This report shows that there is too much variation between hospitals in the use of good and effective treatment. The national medical quality portal shows that there is too much variation between hospitals in the quality of treatment. There's a very clear connection here. I believe, as I also said in my hospital speech in January, that this inequality represents a systematic failure in our healthcare service. It takes too much time before a person implements what is the recommended treatment guideline, and it takes too long before a user uses the knowledge in the medical quality records to change his or her own practice. This also affects the effectiveness of our hospitals. When it goes beyond the effectiveness of our hospitals, it means that patients who should have had treatment do not receive treatment well enough or quickly enough because we are wasting our society's resources. It is not a sustainable situation, so it is important to follow up this report from the Riksrevision and use it specifically in health regions to improve the effectiveness and quality of treatment in our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1959	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1973	As rapporteur of the case, it is a pleasure for me to link some comments to what appears in the present Report. St. 12 for 2013–2014 on the implementation of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act in 2011 and 2012. We are dealing with a matter that is important, but at the same time a little out of date – important because Norway is the world's second largest exporter of seafood and exports seafood for well over 50 billion. kr annually. Exports totaled 61 billion. kr in 2013. From 2012 to 2013, exports increased by 17 p.m., and the increase has also been strong to date this year. In such a perspective, it is important that the legislation relating to this value creation and export is complied with and that the legislation appears to be appropriate. At the same time, the case is a little out of date because, as the bulk of the notification is concerned, as of 1 January 2014, it has been replaced by a new Fish Sale Act, which will contribute to the sustainable and socio-economical management of wild resources in the sea – marine resources – where the quality of raw material is central. I think there is reason to stress the important and good job that the fish sales teams are doing in terms of both resource control and sales control. The Directorate of Fisheries has the primary responsibility for resource control in Norway. In addition, since 1990, fish sales laws have been responsible for participating in the work on national resource controls. This control involves the exercise of public authority. The verification of resources is limited to information naturally resulting from the activities of the sales team, such as quota control. This is a very important job to ensure that fishing resources are harvested and traded in line with the quotas set. There have been only minor changes during the period covered by the notification, and there are no major differences in the Committee's position. To the extent that there is a disagreement within the Committee, it concerns the view on leadership grants and grants to reception stations. The government cut as known in the 2014 budget management grant scheme, while the previous government proposed to continue this in nominal terms from 2013 levels. The left considers that a commitment to a leadership grant and a well-developed network of reception stations is essential to maintain a differentiated fleet structure. Without this, it will be impossible to fish for professional fishermen using small boats in many places, and this in turn will lead to the non-utilisation of valuable fishing resources. For many years we have seen developments in the decommissioning of coastal installations. In order to mitigate the effects of these developments, both leadership grants and grants to reception stations are particularly important. The left therefore proposed in our 2014 alternative state budget to increase the contribution to nutrient measures in fisheries by 25 million. kr. I think it's relevant to mention this. There is broad consensus in the Committee on the setting. There will be other and particularly important issues related to Norwegian fisheries policy in the time that comes, in which there is a potentially much greater level of conflict. For the Norwegian fisheries policy, and in order to exploit the enormous potential of the marine sector, it is my wish that, on these issues too, we can ensure a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, thereby ensuring stable and long-term framework conditions for a long time in the future. It will be good for the Norwegian economy, and it deserves the industry. Finally, it has been signalled that there will be a proposal that the sales teams will continue to report to Stortinget even after the Raw Fish Act has been renamed. I would like to signal such a proposal that the Left will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e1994	Thanks to the case spokesperson for a good and thorough review and from the presentation. First of all, I would like to agree with the last thing the case-speaker said, that when it comes to fisheries policy, it is very important that we get a broad anchor in the Storting and get broad political plurality. It will ensure the necessary care for this industry – a caretakership that goes beyond a four-year or even shorter period. Then it's signaled that there's a suggestion that one should continue with old practice and report to the Stortinget even after the raw fish law was renamed. I would like to draw attention to the fact that both the Labour Party and the Centre Party will support this proposal. The working party fully agrees with the case leader that there is good reason to stress the important and good work done by the fish salads in terms of both resource control and sales control. The difference in this case is the view of the leader's speech and the appeal to reception stations. Everyone here, except for the government party, thinks it was wrong for the government to remove the $10 million. kr in the management bill which the government had in its budget. Then we've seen an unwanted and unfortunate development along the coast, where more and more plants are being laid down. It's just like a tool to dampen this unfortunate and unwanted development that the lead style had been an important piece to bring with it. Ten million dollars. kr would be a loving contribution in that way. The Labour Party also believes that a leadership effort is decisive to maintain a differentiated fleet structure in the future as well, and that it is important to have a network of reception stations to deliver, as pointed out by the case-speaker. Without this it would actually be impossible to fish for professional fishermen with small boats. What's the consequence of that? In fact, valuable fishing resources are not being used well enough, and the small coastal fleet we have is muttering away. So I'd say that the differences aren't always giants in what we're talking about, in fisheries and aquaculture. But then we have to bear in mind that the boat actually comes out of course with small course adjustments along the way. And of course, there are also things where we really stand a long way from each other, and I look forward to having good debates in those matters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2011	Most of it is mentioned on the occasion of the case, and I will not spend time on the representative Heggøs sleep after the big disagreement. It'll be days enough where we disagree, it'll be fine. First, I'm going to take a little round of what is actually the little disagreement in the message we've been dealing with now. It is based on the principle of leadership grants and the principle of grants to reception stations. It is that the price the fisherman receives for its catch depends on its recipients — so the number of reception stations is important, that there are several of them, and that there is a market there for fishermen is important. Everyone agrees. A grant to reception stations quickly limits that part, because then you control the number, and then you plot where the reception stations should be. A leadership grant, on the other hand, is much more neutral and much better in that part. Then you have a market, and then you get the transport subsidy to move the goods back and forth. So you take the lead while you still have an open market. That is why the members of the Right and Advance Party have said that leadership grants are a good tool, while subsidies to reception stations are not a good tool. It is largely the disagreement that we have managed to settle on the legs in this case. Then the matter is that we adopted a new fishing sale law in the previous period. The old raw fish law had an element in it where the government was going to report to the Stortinget. It wasn't part of the new law. The new law gives quite considerable powers to the fish sales laws. We therefore want the government to continue with some form of reporting to Stortinget, so that we can follow these laws regularly. We have therefore put forward a proposal – probably in the last few years, but at least in time – where we propose the following: ‘The Government is asked to report appropriately to Stortinget on relevant issues related to the implementation of the Fish Sale Act and the Fish Exports Act. The new Fish Sale Act is a Power Act which gives great authority to the fish sales laws. It is important that the Storting receive information and that it comes as early as possible.’ Then in the wording we have made it so generous that the government gets to choose the form and frequency, but it is a clear signal that the Stortinget will still have knowledge of the fish sales laws and the effect of the law. I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2029	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2032	The Government has submitted a communication to the Stortinget on the implementation of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act in 2011 and 2012. The Communication mentions important issues from these two years and some issues from 2013. The main changes in 2011 and 2012 have been implemented under the Fish Export Act. The market charge was increased in two stages and has been harmonised from 1 January 2011 for all fish species of 7,5 per million of the export value. This was done to strengthen the domestic and foreign market performance of fresh and frozen white fish, pelagic fish, shrimp and shellfish. Furthermore, the Committee for Fish AS has changed its name to Norway's Sea Maarta wire AS with effect from 1 January 2012. The reason for this change is that the Norwegian sea wire is a more comprehensive name for the company’s overall operations, both outdoor and at home. I would also like to take this opportunity to mention that an external evaluation of Norway’s maritime network is now being carried out. This is the first evaluation of the Seafood Council since it became AS in 2005. This is expected to be completed on 1 July 2014. The Marine Food Council shall contribute to increasing the value creation of the fisheries and aquaculture industry through increased demand and knowledge of Norwegian marine food in the domestic and foreign countries. I've visited Turkey, Portugal, England and this week Spain, and I've seen how important the work that the Maritime Council is doing is, and I'm very convinced that it's their efforts that now make us also see very positive export figures at the beginning of 2014. The Raw Fish Act was replaced in 2013 by the new Fish Sale Act, the law on the first-hand placing on the market of wild marine resources. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2014 and, in substance, continues to operate under the old law. The new purpose paragraph expands the purpose of the law, and the law will contribute to the sustainable and socially viable management of wild marine resources. Furthermore, provision was made for the establishment of a mediation mechanism in the event of disagreement between the fishermen’s and industry’s sides on the fixing of minimum prices. A process has now been carried out between the Department, the Riksmekler, the Sales Act and the Industrial Organisations for the establishment of two mediation topics. Members of a Pelagic sector and one for the whitefish sector will soon be appointed. I would also like to point out that the new law allows the sales laws to impose controls on the quality of raw materials. Work is under way on the regulatory attachment of the role of sales teams in quality control. The legislation will enter into force on 1 January 20l5, and I stress that this will be in addition to the control activities of the Food Safety Authority and not instead. I would like to point out that the government is concerned with ensuring flexible, efficient and well-organised market places with good resource control. The Committee has pointed out that leadership grants are important, and I share that view. The level of the management grant this year is set approximately where consumption was last year, but I would like to stress that the leadership grant is only one of several instruments that can help to ensure a differentiated fleet and reception structure along the coast. Improvements in the general conditions of the industry will also be important for fleet and reception. The first communication on the implementation of the raw fish law came in 1953. This message has traditions. Subsequently, the annual notification of two-year notifications was combined with the notification of other laws, and in recent years the Fish Export Act has been reported at the same time. Then we just have to assume that in 2014 the flow of information is much faster than before, and it may seem a little out of date, as many people have experienced, that in March 2014, fish exports are being debated in 2011. I have heard that the representatives have been updating and talking about the situation today, and I find that very understandable. Thus, the former raw fish law required such notifications to be submitted to Stortinget, whereas the new Fish Sale Act did not impose the same formal requirements. But I am concerned that the Stortinge will get good, relevant and up-to-date information on the development of the fishing industry and how the different laws work. That is why I believe that the proposal that has been put forward is positive, and I also think it is very positive that there is an overall committee and a total mass – if I understand correctly – that can support that proposal. I look forward to a good dialogue with the Stortinget and the Committee in due course. Before I finish, I just want to share some figures about 2014 development in terms of exports. Several have indicated that a rather fabulous export record was set last year, at 61 billion. kr. What really is the joy of this year is that, while last year the salmon was the big winner, we can this year, at the beginning of the year, see that the cod is now coming after. We see that every week 9 is the export of cod products 43 pst. over the last year, and we see that 30 pst. of what is landed fresh, is also exported freshly. There is little doubt – even from what I could see when I was in Spain this week – that the campaign for fresh screams out to the world, out to Europe, has really turned on, both into supermarkets, into more common consumers and into a restaurant complex, which is an even better paying market for this top-quality fish from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2062	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2068	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2076	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jonas Gahr Støre, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make an assessment aimed at withdrawing State pension funds abroad from investments in pure fossil corporations in the course of the year’s treatment of the notification to the Stortning on the management of State pension funds abroad.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to include in the mandate of the expert group an investigation with a view to withdrawing the investment of the State pension fund abroad by other fossil companies in the mandate of the expert group, including a standard for exclusion from investment based on the proportion of the company’s activities resulting from highly polluting extraction methods such as tar sands and the exposure of the company to abrupt changes in the oil price.» The voting boards showed that 84 votes were cast against and 7 votes in favour of the proposals. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.45.44]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2104	My screen was locked, so I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2109	The president records that Marit Nybakk was not allowed to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2112	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2117	The President proposes that we take the vote again. The voting boards now showed that 72 votes were cast against and 3 votes in favour of the proposals. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.47.06]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2126	This is where we were, but obviously not the technology. Let's do the voting one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2138	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the spring’s report on the management of the State pension fund to notify that the State pension fund abroad is drawn from coal mining companies whose primary task is to extract coal.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up an expert group. The Group shall examine how one allows to withdraw the investment to the State pension fund abroad by other coal companies, including a standard for exclusion from investments based on the proportion of the company’s CO2 emissions from coal and how one can strengthen the ownership exercise and influence of the companies in which it remains an investor.’;» The voting boards showed that there were 55 votes against and 41 votes in favour of the proposals. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.48.21]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2158	I couldn't vote. That was stupid! I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2163	Tore Hagebakken had to vote in favour. The proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left are thus by 55 votes to 42.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2540	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2550	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2606	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to report appropriately to Stortinget on relevant issues related to the implementation of the Fish Sale Act and the Fish Exports Act. The new Fish Sale Act is a Power Act which gives great authority to the fish sales laws. It is important that the Storting receive information and that it comes as early as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-20.ana.ud67e2639	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
