ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e15	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative of Mazyar Keshvari from 7 October until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Vara representatives Aina Stenersen and Peter N. Myhre are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. Aina Stenersen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Martin Kolberg, will put forward a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e35	On behalf of the representatives of Helga Pedersen, Abid Q. Raja, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Karin Andersen, Rasmus Hansson, Gunvor Eldegard, Jette F. Christensen and myself, I would like to make proposals to amend the Constitution § 108 on Sami language, culture and social life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e40	The draft Constitution will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e45	On behalf of the big business representatives Line Henriette Hemdal, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to propose measures to strengthen the fight against undeclared work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e50	The representative Iselin Nybø will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e53	On behalf of the representatives of Abid Q. Raja, Ola Elvestuen, Terje Breivik and myself, I would like to make suggestions on the possibility to reserve parking spaces for car sharing schemes. On behalf of the representative Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for increased recruitment of teachers and reduced bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e60	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e63	On behalf of the big business representatives Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Karin Andersen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to follow recommended measures to achieve Norway's climate change targets by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e69	The representative, Mr Micasen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e72	On behalf of the major representatives of Christian Thinning Bjørnø, Ruth Mari Grung, Trond Giske, Martin Henriksen, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Audun Otterstad, Freddy de Ruiter and myself, I am delighted to propose a better school health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e91	The SSB estimates that by 2032 we are six million Northmen. The next million Northmen need a place to stay, a place on the train, a school desk for their children, and I don't ignore that some of them are going to need a meeting with the law's long arm. The growth is already marked. In the years to come, Oslo Municipality will invest over 10 billion. kr at school. How we're going to deal with that growth, we're going to have to think about it today. We are also facing the so-called wave of old age. The number of people aged over 80 will increase sharply from around 2020 onwards. Over the next 25 years, it is estimated that the number will double. Longer life expectancy means that children and grandchildren can look forward to many good years with both parents and grandparents. Those who have lived a long life must be guaranteed a worthy old age. How we're going to achieve that, while we're getting fewer employees compared to the number of older people, we also have to think about today. At the same time, we are facing major changes in our economy. Oil activity has long been the engine of our economic growth. The revenues and activity have created good jobs and helped to expand our welfare systems. Now we see that the oil price swings again. Norway’s Bank’s estimate of investment in the sector in 2015 is about 20 billion. kr lower than 2014. The oil companies are busy cutting costs, and it is announced that many people will lose their jobs in companies that supply the oil industry. Reduced investments have been notified. At the same time, productivity growth in the economy has generally declined. Higher cost growth over many years causes our competitiveness to deteriorate. Norway has become more dependent on oil. How we will ensure safe jobs in the future and the basis for our well-being, we also need to think about today. Strictly speaking, we should have thought more about it in the last few years. In addition, we're in front of a green shift. By 2050, we will convert to a low-carbon society, where greenhouse gas emissions are no larger than the Earth can withstand. We have to work hard to hope that by 2015 the world will take important steps to achieve the two-degree goal. Increasing emissions globally make the need for action increasingly urgent. But that's also positive signs. Regardless of a new international agreement, more and more countries are showing a willingness to appreciate CO2. A price of CO2 is a powerful tool that makes old businesses lose and new, climate-friendly businesses become winners. How we're going to make future Norwegian jobs a winner, we also have to think about today. These major trends show which major tasks lie ahead of us. They demand that we prepare well, and that we act now. In the years to come, our ability and will for conversion will be put to the test. It will be necessary to give greater priority to how we use public funds. More effort is needed to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. It will be necessary to strengthen the working line. It will be necessary to put far greater power behind the realization of the knowledge society. And it becomes necessary to create the new green jobs. It is important to learn that we need to make a better transition — to a more worthwhile old age for our older people, to new and more knowledge-based jobs and new ways of working. We are the first generation to live with the threat of major climate change. If we get to a green shift, we can become the last generation that has to live with such a threat. If we don't push the problems ahead of us, we can make sure that we leave an even better society to future generations. We have known the need to act for a long time. Nevertheless, in recent years there has been a lack of innovation and a lack of investment in infrastructure. Knowledge and competitiveness, despite strong economic space, have not been invested in, and there has been an exaggerated belief that the interest-rate weapons and the application of fiscal policies alone should address not only the acute but also the long-term challenges of Norway. One important reason why so many wanted a government change a year ago was the expectation that a new government would do what is necessary to meet tomorrow's challenges. In recent years, the census has been used to disseminate an unprioritized list of messages and propositions. This year the government has wanted to invite Stortinget to a discussion about the most important changes our society is facing, and how we are going to change in time. And it's urgent to get started. The time has now to be over for the renewal drought and the passivity of the challenges to the future. Therefore, the new government thanked Norway for preparing for the future from day one. We conduct a policy that stimulates creativity and creativity in society, that triggers forces in people with ideas, and that wants to bet. It is absolutely necessary to create new green jobs in the knowledge society of the future. Major and important reforms are well under way in several areas. Strengthening the working line, including: through increased requirements for activity. Labour market regulation proposals adapted to the needs of our time have been consulted. All over the country, municipalities are now discussing how to organise themselves to strengthen the offer to citizens in the future. The government has started work with a view to a more comprehensive and efficient development of roads and railways. Several good forces need to be released to provide a better offer to train passengers. The State must increase its contribution to the development of public transport infrastructure in large cities. Work on the reform of the free choice of treatment is under way. The reform will make use of the free capacity of private providers to reduce waiting time and increase patients’ freedom of choice. In last year's election campaign, our main criticism of the previous government was about the lack of ability and willingness to renew the public sector, the lack of ability and willingness to tackle bureaucracy and the inefficient use of Community resources, and the lack of willingness and ability to raise investment in knowledge, infrastructure, innovation and research. The absence of action and clear management have made us lose time. I believe, however, that there is room for shopping. We're more busy than we could have had, but there's still time. If we're going to be able to change in time, it takes a lot of us, and the government is set to do what is necessary. Why is it so important? Well, because it's about having room in the future to create a society that succeeds even better in creating opportunities for everyone, a society that succeeds in giving a new chance to those who fall outside. We must ensure high employment and low unemployment even when oil will play a smaller role in our economy in the future. The most important thing we can do to combat poverty and increasing disparities is just that. We must strengthen the commitment to knowledge. We want a society where each one is given tools to shape its own future independently of its background. The school is the most important for those who have a difficult starting point. We need to renew health care, so that we can avoid a two-part healthcare service and only those who can afford it can pay off of the health care queue. And we need to step up our efforts for those who are falling through our safety net. The provision of drug and psychiatry patients and adults with read and write difficulties needs to be improved. That way, we're solving important problems today. I think we all have a common experience here: we meet many people who share their experiences with us, both the people who have succeeded in their lives, and the people who have fallen outside. For me – and I'm sure that for most of the others here too – the desire is to give more opportunities to master their lives perhaps the most important reason why we have engaged in politics. What makes a strong impression on me is that many of the people I've met were really going to be able to master their everyday life a long time ago. But they fell through our safety net, whether it was at school, in child protection or in health care. We need to get better at seeing each person's own challenges. Many of those who fall outside do so because they have challenges that are complex and that are individual. When we're going to fight a Difference Norway, this is among the best places to start. Therefore, diversity and freedom of choice in our welfare systems are so important. Then we see the needs of each and every human being. We can't do that with A4 solutions. The big shifts that I talked about at the beginning are perhaps the most important of all about these people, which we constantly meet. Those are the ones that are most vulnerable if we fail in the conversion. They're only affected if we can't finance our welfare systems. They are only affected if unemployment increases. This is why it is so important that we are finally starting to do both important tasks today and to equip Norway for the future. Finally, let me express our great gratitude to the Nordics and others who are now taking part in the work and the fight against the Ebola outbreak in Africa. In particular, we send warm thoughts to Doctors Without Borders' fieldwork, which unfortunately have been infected and will now receive treatment in Norway. We sincerely hope, all of us, that this will go well. The outbreak shows that the needs are enormous. From Norway, we are now stepping up efforts. There is great respect for those who seek out the affected areas to help other people. On behalf of the government – and I believe all of us here – I will express our deep gratitude and respect for the efforts of all of these individuals to make the world better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e153	Let me join the Prime Minister's last comment: We are all behind the effort that must now be made against this terrible epidemic that can be lasting and very serious. So to the throne: it should be about tomorrow's great tasks. But was it really about that? The Prime Minister says a lot to which we can nod: to see the individual, to invest for the future and take the big questions of the future seriously. But after listening to the persuasion debate yesterday, I ask myself, was that really what we were talking about? Did we really get a description of how to meet more older people from 2020 onwards? Were there any signs of tackling the climate challenge – both our own climate settlement and the international? Well, a government has started. It's delivered about 40 pst. The average number of cases brought by new governments after 2001 and 2005. So let's see if we can recognize that right over here in Stortinget. I feel that there is a government that prioritises tax cuts rather than other things. The tax havens lead to differences. What is the Prime Minister's view of the differences as a modern approach to solving problems in a modern society?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e164	I think the most important thing to counteract differences in society is to build the school that enables everyone to use their possibilities. We know that alongside the family background, the school is the most important arena to reach people and to create social mobility. We're pretty good, but we're not good enough to create social mobility in Norway through school. We have a good deal to do before we do when we know what we can do, to make sure to counteract what is a social background and let everyone live out their talents. These are the steps that this government is taking on knowledge, and that the previous government did not – the grips that make us systematically make sure that all teachers in the future are going up to a higher level of competence, as the previous government said no, and that we are taking care to follow up the demands of continuing education, which the previous government did not increase the money for. It's about making sure that we now have a five-year teacher training in the future to frame the new teacher's effort. We do a lot for some of the most important things we can do to counteract inequality in Norway, that's to lift Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e169	Nevertheless, in the budget for this year, you spent ten times more on tax cuts than there was more on school, police and hospital. It's the most important investment, and it's not much of a talk. We're waiting for something similar to come tomorrow. The question is, could you spend that money better, use that money better to invest in school, make the teacher's promise that the whole Storting is agreeing on, bet on a plan, so we're going to get enough lucky days care places for the elderly from 2020? It's tomorrow. It takes five years to plan to build a new nursing home site, make investments in the infrastructure we need in the big cities, etc. I agree with the emphasis on school, but is the Prime Minister not responding to the international messages coming, the warnings against increasing differences, against differences that make a society lose sight of each other? People don't see the similarity and the community they need to promise together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e178	My main reason for thinking that we should reduce taxes on wealth in Norway is that I want Norwegian national ownership. I want those who own Norwegian businesses to actually be part of the community in which they live, and not be institutional owners, foreign owners, or move out of the country. I think that solidarity with Norwegian workplaces, the willingness to bet more, is just to sit in the same community, to sit in the same sports board, to have that proximity and that view for the others who depend on your investment. The policy of the previous government was to get more of them not to be in their local environment, but to pull out more and make sure that ownership was moved to others. Therefore, it is unreasonable to believe that in the long term we should have investments that really contribute to the new transformations, because it is often not quarterly capitalism that wins, but the long-term private ownership that dares to stand through a storm and creates the new jobs. That is why I believe that we should provide for smaller differences, provide for future tasks, yes, we should actually both reduce and change the wealth tax and preferably remove it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e183	So we're in disagreement. But let me address another challenge when it comes to building the country, and that's the question of who's going to build the country. The Prime Minister mentioned in his declaration of accession last year the need for a professional profession, and it was also mentioned in the census. But what does the government do in that area? We're going to lack 100,000 skilled workers here to land in 10-20 years, and that's the key competence we need. What happens when we lack those skilled workers, and young people opt out of these subjects, is that there will be more temporary employment from outside. This is bad for Norwegian labour culture, and it is also bad for Norwegian productivity. It contributes to social dumping, and it contributes to a lack of knowledge in our working life. My impression is that we need to address the challenges now if we are to be able to respond to those challenges in 10-20 years' time. Had we had similar non-responses within e.g. medicine, then we would have called national alarm. What is the Prime Minister's grip, and what action plan does she have to address this serious problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e192	One of the education we have some of the similar non-response rates in Norway is teacher training. That's pretty much the math base that makes a lot of people work. That is one of the reasons why we wanted to increase the intake requirement, but I registered yesterday that there was relatively high resistance from the Workers' Party. That's interesting. However, as far as the professional profession is concerned, I am pleased that the Workers' Party is now seeing the need for this. What Jonas Gahr Støre has said in the later debates, corresponds exactly to the same thing we said in 2010, when we from the Right launched a professional lift. Then we said that it's not just the non-response issue that's important. It is also self-valued for the professions, because more people have to be lifted. That is why we are concerned that we should ensure that general technical lines continue to develop further. That's why we're going to have more runs through the professions and make it more structured. That is why we need to ensure that the quality of vocational teachers is also improved in the future, and we are making a lot of good efforts. I am pleased that the Labour Party now sees that this is not only a question of non-response, but also a question of status for the professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e199	So this has to do with the conditions in the labour market, and I want to address a question to the Prime Minister regarding the Labour Environment Act. There is a proposal for consultation on changes to the Work Environment Act, and the interesting thing here is that under headings such as contributing to a safe, flexible and family-friendly working life and a benefit for employees and disabled and divorced families, employees’ organisations say no, and disabled people also say no. Now the hearings are coming. The Labour Inspectorate has reviewed the government’s proposal and indicates that 30 p.m. of all the damage to construction that was treated at the municipality of Trondheim, was of the temporary staff, even though they constituted only 5 pst. of the staff. The supervision refers to international investigations, which claim that temporary workers do not report harm because they fear to lose their next job. Is it the way to go into a working life that is experiencing increased pressures from social dumping, insecurity and progressive crime, when employee organisations are so clearly opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e204	It's interesting that Jonas Gahr Støre uses the examples of today's arrangements and damage reports, because they are linked to the hiring of labour. The Workers' Party has not proposed to be prohibited. We also do not propose any extension of the renting of labour. But we have a proposal to increase temporary employment, especially in order to improve the threshold for jobs. We'll have it at the hearing, and then we'll look at the frames around it. But I think it is well documented that it is difficult for some groups who are outside and need to prove their working capacity to employers to enter today's labour market. We believe that a small increase in temporary employment will help more employers to dare to hire disabled people, young people who have had a bit of a broken past, and those who are afraid of having a lot of sick leave, who today do not get a job at all. We think it'll be important to bet on, just to give opportunities for everyone. Many people are parked permanently outside the labour market; we should try more measures to get them in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e212	If this was an expected outcome, it should be thought that employees’ organisations wanted this to be welcomed, and that the disabled felt this was fine. But what international research shows is that increased temporaryity does not necessarily lead to more people entering temporary jobs without jobs, which leads to more people in permanent jobs becoming temporary. We've seen that in Sweden. They have twice as many temporary jobs as in Norway, they also have twice as high unemployment rates and even higher rates among young people. I believe that this is an action that must also be seen in the context of another phenomenon in the labour market, namely the increasing, increasing social dumping, the crime of working life, which the Prime Minister now seems to take seriously, and that there is a link between these two. I also think it is interesting that the letter of consultation from the Department contains a number of warnings about what these proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act could lead to in the Norwegian labour market. It is to be hoped that the government will listen both to its own professional authorities and to the recordings coming from the most concerned when assessing the final proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e219	There are also arguments in that consultation opinion as to why we believe it would be useful to provide easier access to the labour market for many groups that are permanently absent. Now it's like yes, we're going to fight gross work-life crime. It's an important job for the government, and we do it in cooperation with the social partners. We see that there are mafia-like conditions in some parts of the labour market. We see organized crime interfering with a labour market that is more globalized than before. And we know that there are many people who are vulnerable in the labour market, precisely because they don't get into regular jobs. It may be, if there is an opportunity to test these without the same protection on termination as it is on permanent employment, that if organised criminals and mafia-like organisations had had easier access to the labour market, it would be a little less likely to be able to exploit them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e226	I think the Prime Minister made a good point, which raised the challenges for Norway in a good way and in a way that we recognise from the cooperation agreement. Then we will see tomorrow how it is made concrete – we will have to come back to that at that time. The Prime Minister spoke about opportunities for the individual, and I want to address the situation of long-term asylum seekers, who are not least waiting for clarification. We had a round here in the hall yesterday, and this the Prime Minister knows is an agreement between the four parties. I would like to be confirmed that the Prime Minister sees the need for a rapid clarification for the long-term asylum children, and that there is no doubt that the best interests of the child will be given greater weight than with the red-green legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e233	I would like to confirm that we are both going to work quickly on this and that the best thing for the child is to be given greater weight. One of the things the government did for the current year was to change the allocation letter to the UDI, which in 2013 confirmed that it was a priority to send out long-term children, while in 2014 we said that priority should be given to sending out children, but not to focus on those who were long-term, precisely because we have an agreement. The fact that we have returned more children this year includes, among other things: because we have returned many within the Dublin Convention. It's not children who have been here for a long time, it's children who have been here relatively short. We're going to focus on the agreement we have, and we're working on a bomb to put in place a permanent system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e238	The Christian People's Party has worked for a number of years to enable the ideal actors to continue their good health and care services. The ideals were in due course imposed on public equal tariffs in order to obtain operating agreements with the public. Therefore, they now face major pension challenges in the back pocket that threaten their operating environment, and they feel that they are unable to compete in the same way as all others with regard to obtaining tenders and contracts with the public. What will the government do to ensure a level playing field for the ideals and their challenges with the historical pension costs they have in their backpack? When can we wait for a solution to that, because we are totally dependent on them in a welfare society?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e245	I fully agree that we depend on many of the voluntary non-profit organisations in the welfare community. It is also those who have launched many of the welfare solutions we see today in many areas, and it is still those who often develop new welfare solutions and take care of new concerns before the public gets on the road. So you know that this is one thing we're working on. I can't give a deadline for when we're done, because that's among other things. a question of how we take it into account in future contracts. In the case of previous contracts, the challenge has been that for some organisations they have been won in a tendering system, where the others then have lost a competition, and then one has to think about the non-discrimination of these. For others, they're part of a contract, so it's easier to find solutions. But I think one should be aware that the government is very concerned that we should not get into a situation where important actors do not master their obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e252	One of the government's messages in the throne is that there is a worse offer for child-restraint children in the smallest municipalities, and to help vulnerable children, we need community reunification. To date, the government has had no professional proof of the claim that there is a lower offer for child protection children in small municipalities than in large municipalities, which we in the Central Party have pointed out several times. Can the Prime Minister now state professionally why the claim that child-restraint children in small municipalities have fewer offers than children-restraint children in large municipalities, or is it just a claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e257	I have registered that the trade unions representing the child-restraint workers have also intended to have more robust environments. I think it is quite obvious that if you have half a position in a municipality – as you have in some municipalities – and have the breadth and competence and at the same time the legal competence that is attached to what may end up in actions where you deprive parents of care for your children, you need to understand both the legal side and the child-care side. It is difficult to achieve, and it is difficult to offer women – and I say women because there are most women who are educated within this – half-day positions systematically around the country to meet this need. It's a forward-looking statement that we've seen. I have registered that those who work on this have agreed with us that there is a need to create more robust environments. Some municipalities compensate for this well through inter-municipal cooperation, but often the link between what is the municipality and the work done in the protection of children is lost. Then it kind of weakens the relationship in a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e262	It is amazing that FO, which organizes most child protection workers, is completely crystal clear when they say that there is no connection between community reunification and the services of child protection. There is one major technical report on the relationship between small and large municipalities – a technical report prepared by Deloitte for KS. What is it saying? Well, it's on average better vocational education in the small municipalities. There are more interventions per child in small municipalities than in large municipalities — and very often close at home. It also says that there are fewer employees per child in the small municipalities than in the large ones. The report concludes that it is the opposite of what the Prime Minister says. It is a professionally heavy report published by Deloitte that says that the child protection services are best in the small municipalities. Sometimes it seems that if the government just repeats a statement enough times, it's the truth. But the truth is that the trade unions are against, and that the professionally heavy reports contradict. What professional justification, evidence, does the government have that child protection services are worse in the small municipalities than in the large ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e271	In many areas, small municipalities have better and more services than larger municipalities, simply because they have more money. It's part of the income system we have, where in sum per capita small municipalities have significantly more money than the larger municipalities have. In one subject area in Kommune-Norway, an incredible amount of intermunicipal cooperation has been carried out. It is in the field of child protection – precisely because it has been seen to be too vulnerable alone. Sitting alone with a decision suggesting that parents should be deprived of responsibility for taking care of their children is a difficult decision in a small community. Therefore, over the last 15 to 20 years, a large number of municipalities have seen the need to build this up in larger intermunicipal solutions. I understand that the solution of the Centre Party is to move more and more out of the municipalities and into non-politically directed bodies and intercommunal cooperation. We think it's better that the overall responsibility lies in one line, and that you have one common municipality responsible for this, than for example. – as some municipalities are within – 50 to 60 intercommunal cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e280	I think the prime minister heard my post yesterday. Then I tried to go through the censuses over the last nine years. I looked at what focus it had been on climate and environment – from the first Stoltenberg-trontal, when this was not mentioned in a single word, to a certain recognition that it was international agreements that would solve everything, and until renewable energy was mentioned, but where oil policy had a much larger place. So I'm thinking a year back. When the Prime Minister presented this government’s eight main fields of action – climate and environment were not mentioned in one word. Then comes a throne speech that is very good in terms of climate and environment. The Prime Minister gives the king three main fields of action. Climate and environment are in both No. 1 and No 3 of these areas of activity, so it would have been nice to know: what recognition has the Prime Minister had for the last year – as a basis for such a reversal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e288	The languages of the throne refer to three major trends that we need to address. Climate and climate challenges are one of the three main trends. The increase in population was not a field of activity either. Trends are different from those that have been the main areas of activity. I have been constantly concerned that the climate is a continuous framework condition for all of the areas of activity we have. What we're doing, we're always going to be focused on the goal we have, that as a nation, we're going to be climate neutral in 2050, which, in my opinion, is the main objective of the climate agreement and the direction in which we're going to work. In all the areas of action we have, measures must be climate-oriented. This isn't a great recognition, because I've had that confession for a long time. It is the basis of the introductory text of the agreement we have with the five parties, and it is the starting point and basis of the Sunvolden platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e297	It is very good that prime ministers believe this when they are prime ministers, and not just report when they have stopped being prime ministers. But what is also important is to be able to achieve the international goals that we have. And I have great expectations for the state budget based on the wording that's in the throne, so maybe tomorrow we'll know that. The main challenge is that these objectives will be difficult to achieve. What worries me from the Prime Minister's statements, especially when she was at a meeting in New York, is that these goals are so difficult to achieve that we're not going to make it. In my political everyday life, when goals are difficult to achieve, we lean forward and work more to reach them, we don't lean back and say this was difficult. So I hope now that I can get the Prime Minister's confirmation that when goals are difficult to achieve, we don't lean back and say that we don't reach them, but we lean forward and actually do more to reach them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e308	One of my founders as a politician is that it's a good idea to be honest. And I think we're going to be honest that the goals we set by 2020 are difficult to achieve. It takes a lot. Some of the major points of action we have agreed on in the climate agreement are a point that will be largely realised between 2020 and 2030, for example. the great collective effort. So we have to be able to say in a way that some of our instruments are effective after 2020. So my ambition is to be forward-looking and take new action. We have already reinforced the climate agreement in some of the areas that were not included, and we are going to come up with more measures where we can achieve the objectives quickly. But I think we'll be sober enough to say that when we spend billions on bets, for example. on a collective basis for climate change, which is completed a little after 2020, it is not being relocated, but it is actually saying that there are some challenges with the timelines that we have to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e317	That was the end of the support badges! I want to give the Prime Minister a challenge about climate, because the census was full of fine words, but nothing concrete about climate policy. I'm glad the Prime Minister has started talking about climate after a year, but we're now wondering how long we're going to wait before she starts acting. In the spring, the Environment Directorate presented a report on what they are going through to achieve the targets we have set by 2020. Therefore, SV has presented a number of proposals for treatment in the Stortinget today, since the government has not come up with a plan. The Prime Minister has said, and has now repeated, that the objectives will be difficult to achieve. I wish we could hear a prime minister who would instead say that the goals are to be achieved. And that is my first challenge: can we hear the Prime Minister say that the objectives are to be achieved? And will the government support the proposal put forward today by SV on a new target that nine out of ten new cars sold in 2020 should be zero-emission cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e330	I understand that after eight years of government, SV is now incredibly eager to do something about the climate. I am, too, so I will agree with the representative that we are going to be ambitious and more forward-looking than you have been before. So I've been glad to read the previous languages of the throne, because I noticed Heikki Holmås' intimate statements on Twitter that the census was so bad in the climate. Then I found out that it wasn't as much as it said about it in the last few years either. Two years ago, you were to submit a communication to the Stortinget on instruments. Last year you were supposed to meet that message and also do a little more on logging. The languages of the throne don't tell us about all the instruments. There are a number of instruments in the budget. And then I am absolutely sure that SV is promoting good suggestions. Some of these proposals will also be agreed and phased in. I am absolutely sure that many of the measures that we all now think about in the context of climate are measures that we can agree to find a good way to phase in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e339	I didn't have all the world's expectations for the throne after the first year of the government. That's why I belong to those who were very inspired, not least by the Prime Minister's posts now. But then what remains is not the fact that we lack good suggestions on what we need to do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. What is needed is to do so, and what has marked the last majorization period – the previous two majorization periods – is that we have had a government that has not implemented the measures, and then we have an opposition that, with respect to reporting, has not exactly yelled and startled in the hall to whip the government's climate action in the future. So the big question is, what is this government going to do to implement the climate measures that we all know there are long strips of in all offices, and that were not done in the last period? What's the big difference going to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e346	Some of that tension I think we have to wait until we present the budget for some of the areas. But I want to say that we've done something. We have e.g. had a significant follow-up to the opposition's agreed to strengthen the fund in order to invest in environmental technologies and research into them. It may sound very boring, but that's what's going on – that we can help the companies that are going to use fossil fuel to use less of it or more to use electricity. When you now work in Tyssedal with completely new technology to get much less emissions – to cut it big – it is important that this fund has enough resources to carry it over. When Karmøy is going to get big money to make a big pilot work, these are the important changes. If we are to get to the environmental technology changes, yes, the state must be a partner in that work. If not, it's going to go too slow. Then we have significantly larger investments, for example. on collective and railway, now that we had earlier. And continuance follows tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e351	This means that the cord shift is over. The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad will present a proposal for a representative, which fell out at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e356	There is room for forgiveness in the Christian People's Party. I thank you for the flexibility and put forward a proposal on behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Steinar Reiten, Line Henriette Hemdal and myself on measures to create a new green growth in Norway and a level playing field with Norway's neighbouring country for the establishment of green data centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e361	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e364	The Prime Minister claims that several temporary jobs give less rent and more jobs to vulnerable groups. Where is this documented? I guess all of the research shows the opposite. The truth is that the government has decided in any case – more use of temporary jobs, increased use of overtime without extra pay, more work on Sundays and lower pay for temporary workers and emergency guards. Ordinary people get less to say about their own everyday lives. The protection of the health of ordinary people is weakened. The ability of ordinary people to increase their skills is reduced. Family and equality policies are being reversed. This is a matter where the government does not renew, simplify, improve or meet tomorrow's needs. Flexibility is the new word for increased working time, less paid and more temporaryity. These are not new ideas and new solutions. This is the 1800s policy. When the Workers' Party puts our feet down, we are accused of being unsolidarian and of turning time back. But taste a bit of this quote that limitations in working time and overtime are “completely contrary to the efforts of the person’s liberation which are the highly esteemed characteristic of modern evolution.” No, this is not the right side of the day that speaks, but their predecessors. [[...]] The quotation is from the Conservative Representatives of the Labour Commission of 1885. Obviously, the right side has grown firmly. In 1885 it was far to what we know as today's equality society. But we still have a long way left. The gender-based labour market is a major challenge in Norway than in many other European countries. For who are working in the vicariates and part-time jobs? Who is it that works in the retail trade, and with health and care? Who's making the least money? Who is it that needs to invest in more Sunday work and longer working days without overtime? Who's losing on poorer kindergarten policies and reduced cardboard? Who is the most ill-treated and unretired because of muscle and skeletal diseases? Who is it that works in the comfort- and wearing- occupations where we need many more in the future? Who is the one who has the worst wage for so-called equal work? Which of them with temporary employment is the most pregnant in the transition from one temporary position to another, and therefore does not get the other? The Prime Minister knows that. The Minister for Gender Equality knows that. Everyone knows that. What everyone may not always think the same way about is that behind the muffled words of ‘some adaptations to the labour law’, there is a robust regression, not least as regards equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e376	The census states that, just as Europe is facing a new security policy situation, international issues such as climate, poverty, war and conflict are something we must pay very much attention to. Emergency aid and humanitarian aid needs have exploded in recent years. In Syria, we are witnessing one of the worst humanitarian crises after World War II, and very serious crises are taking place in the Central African Republic, South Sudan and Iraq. The U.N. has asked for over 12 billion. dollar for humanitarian purposes, which is the greatest appeal ever. At the same time, the international humanitarian response has not been able to meet the major needs. Our government therefore increased humanitarian aid by 166 million. the revised national budget, and it is essential that Norway continues to give high priority to humanitarian action for refugees and war and conflict-affected areas. As a result of the conflict in Syria, three million people are driven away. It is estimated that half of the country’s population depends on humanitarian aid. The neighbouring countries are under great pressure and accept huge refugee flows. Lebanon, a country with four million inhabitants, has received over one million refugees. Norway has been among the largest contributors to Syria since the beginning of the conflict in 2011. Not least, Norway played an important role in removing chemical weapons from Syria. There shouldn't be much imagination to imagine what could have become the humanitarianly critical outcome if these had landed in ISIL's hands. Norway is committed to humanitarian aid, in particular in the fields of education, emergency health, water, sanitation and food aid. Ensuring shelter, health and education for refugees has been a priority in helping victims of sexualised violence. The humanitarian crises we see especially affect children. Millions are deprived of the right to education in war and conflict. The statistics tell us that children in conflict areas are on average about ten years out of school. We therefore need to invest in education where there is crisis and conflict, to lay the foundations for democracy and development and to avoid lost generations. That's what the government is doing, so it's going to pop up in the budget tomorrow, with an increase of over half a billion dollars. Education is a human right and the key to eradicating poverty. 58 million children are not allowed to attend school today. Norway and the government are now taking a global lead in education for development. The initiative is especially for children affected by war and conflict, girls and disabled people. Education is a prerequisite for job creation and development. That's why the government's educational commitment is so right – and so important, because we know that without education there will be no development.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e391	In the municipality of Sørum, where I live, the important offers to children and young people are run by engaged and volunteer people. Such people exist throughout the country. These are people who spend their time contributing to society, which is invaluable, creating inclusion and good memories. It shall be easy to be voluntary, but some experience voluntary involvement as a burden. Paperwork, heavy-duty application procedures and rigid rules are well-known and unnecessary. That's why we have to bet on a simplification of volunteering. I am glad that this year it was put out of funds for simplification and red tape. Completion of the Voluntary Register is an important part of the simplification process. This register shall be developed as a useful and simple tool for voluntary organisations. The aim is to make use of the public as a distribution tool for the award of support schemes. The implementation of simplification measures is important. Examples of such measures include the re-use of information, the coordination of requirements and concepts and the aggregation of overlapping grant schemes. This will reduce the reporting time and leave more time to the core tasks of volunteering. It has to be a goal to reach 100 pst. VAT compensation, both in general and in the construction of sports facilities. We need to stimulate the growth of private profits through the tax deduction system and let the unmistakable inheritance fall into the trap of volunteering. Predictable economy gives the volunteer, in both the South and the rest of the country, time to focus on children and young people instead of on paperwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e408	I am absolutely convinced that ideal actors have something unique to contribute as providers of welfare services. They contribute to a service offer of high quality, diversity and flexibility. The ideal actors have a strong user focus, they get close to patients and users, and they shape the local environment in which they operate. Christian People's Party believes we have to see the difference between ideal-based and commercial-based activities. Non-profit institutions serving households have a clear value base and a societal purpose. These organisations are often targeted at sections of the population who either do not receive services or receive services that are not well adapted to their needs. They are often targeted at parts of the population who are poor and who have weak purchasing power. The ideal actors often manage a type of trust among users that seems to relate to the particular by being non-profit. Ideally, they work according to cost-effective principles, but they do not operate with profit as a motive. Non-profit actors use all financial surplus for the purpose of their activities, meaning that nothing is distributed to non-resident owners, either in the short or long term. Ideal actors often have staff that are strongly identified for their purpose, are long-term in terms of the development of working methods and competences, and are unbureaucratic and can adapt quickly to new needs. This specificity provides ideal actors with different assumptions in order to meet needs and services than both public and private commercial actors have. Ideal establishments will be able to offer solutions which neither public nor commercial establishments can provide. But the different assumptions are also about the fact that the ideals don't have much equity in their backs. They do not have their own departments that work with the sale and design of tenders. They provide employees with good pay and pension contracts and long-term and heavy liabilities. This is among the assumptions that non-profit actors need a framework other than commercial actors to survive. If they are to operate on equal terms, they will rapidly compete with the ideals. The Christian People's Party believes it is a political task to ensure that the sector is preserved. More predictability for the ideal actors is absolutely necessary, and longer-termity is a good thing for all parties. For the Christian People's Party, this is about whether we want a living third sector in Norway. Do we want services from the non-profit organizations or not? This government strongly believes that the market mechanisms will ensure the best possible offer to the individual child. I believe that the health, care and social sectors are poorly suited to traditional tendering procedures, where short-term economic criteria are most often crucial. The offers that are made are gone forever. They cannot be rebuilt, even if the government is going to change its mind. That is why it is a great responsibility for the government and the majority of the population in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e434	The Common Era announces reforms aimed at renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector and welfare systems. Minister of Health Bent Höie's first reform, free treatment, has met storms and crushing criticism in the hearing. With free treatment options, the government will force a reform that no one wants, which will give more bureaucracy and weaken public hospitals and patients' dishes. The best thing to do with such a bad suggestion is to draw it. Secondly, the Trontals announce a pilot scheme with State funding for the care of the elderly. Parental care is the most important job of a municipality. Nothing is more local than care and health care, which, if necessary, is widely used in the homes of people. The proposal is a torpedo against the division of responsibilities between the municipality and the state and will guarantee an increase in bureaucracy. Grandmother must be praised so that the state care can be outsourced. I can promise the government a fight to the door for such a weakening of the close care of the elderly. Thirdly, next autumn, Health Minister Höie will present his national health and health plan. Also, this is a performance project that is guaranteed not to live up to the expectations that both Health Minister Höie and Prime Minister Solberg created before the elections last year. From being a plan that should be as governance as the National Transport Plan is for the transport sector, the National Health and Sickness Plan has now been reduced to a plan where the Stortinget is invited to discuss them overarching the principle of health development. Thank you very much, but the Center Party is actually fighting for what we went to vote on. We want political management of the hospital sector in Norway, we want to remove the enterprise model, which has had the main objective of centralising activity to a greater extent than what the county in its time has been able to get elected members of the public. We want major, significant changes in the Norwegian hospital sector to be decided by the Stortinget – by people who can be thrown into elections. We want to have a specific hospital plan that makes the tasks of each hospital a board member. The central party will secure a decentralised preparedness throughout the country. Then we'll need a local hospital. This is going to be a fight. We got a taste of what is waiting in Stortinget on 17 June this year, when Right, the Advance Party, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party closed down two local hospitals in Telemark. Acute surgical preparedness disappears these days in the Rjukan. There are available surgical swabs in Tinn for a time with patient queues and waiting lists. The government is responding by creating patients' health services. The problem is that this promise does not apply to people in the district. For the Centre Party, it is an overarching policy objective for the health sector that all citizens should be guaranteed equivalent health services irrespective of each cage or who is. The government's health reform does not contribute to this, and it is very serious. Centralisation and preparedness, depriorisation of prevention and increased choice for a few in cities are the wrong drugs to meet future health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e447	As politicians, we should and should be measured how we deal with the weakest in society. This is one of our most important tasks in a society where most people have it very well. The dignity and ability to make choices about their own lives must also be attached when major reforms are to be financed and implemented, not only when they are to be decided. Reporting, working groups, forms fields and ruleriding are often the focus of the reform, creating a better service for the inhabitants and for the individual. Trust must also be exercised — trust that the closest one is often the best person to know how, for different people have different needs. In the transfers to municipalities, this must be taken more seriously and more seriously. Both people and municipalities have different needs, and there must be room to find the best solutions, not just the most effective ones. It's a pleasure for a representative from More and Romesdal to the right that the government has started a work on developing a new travel policy. Similar to the fishing industry, this is one of the industries. in my home country stands for the great creation of value, which also benefits the rest of the country, and which must be seen as future industries. These are also industries with many common challenges: They're both administrative industries and marketers of our biggest brand: Norway. They have a home market that expects quality, while at the same time internationally they are export industries to compete for both price, quality and demand – and in a critical and large international market. They are both industries that can contribute to more jobs in the future, if one manages them properly. They are both renewable industries when thinking about sustainability and long-term sustainability. In particular, the tourism industry has too low national status compared to many other industries. That's why it's important in this extra effort to bring what's already working, because very much works well in travel, they work well, but they need someone who can go to the community. In particular, I would mention the effort and role that Innovation Norway also has in international marketing. At the top of the travel life pack and in split layers with much of the Norwegian travel life, it is well worked to make Norway visible as a destination and destination. This work calls for long-term investment and cooperation, a cooperation that makes it prudent for both buyers and sellers. This needs to be taken into account, while at the same time looking at how Norway, as a travel nation, will develop further and become more professional.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e475	Freedom lies within the community. If all people are to be given equal opportunities, it is necessary to bet on feminism, on the environment and on redistribution. That's what SV knows. After a year with today's government, we see that power conditions are being pushed in the wrong direction. We see it in terms of class, we see it in terms of gender, and we see it in terms of geography. Power and resources say south to men who have the most from the past, while child welfare and nutrition are cut down in the north and work is brutalized. We see this both through bidding rounds and competitive outsourcing, as we see in the Defence today, and we see it through attacks on the Working Environment Act. When the trade union movement describes the proposals for the amendment of the labour-environment law as a declaration of war, while the owner's side, NHO, bowls of bubbles in a row, it says something about who's losing, and who's winning on government policy. Flexibility is added to the labour market, but is not deleted on the labour market premises. Longer working days, more weekend work and more temporary jobs will shift power relationships from one employee to another. With major, dramatic changes in working life, we will be able to experience a situation, a development that we have not seen in the Nordic countries, but that we have seen in the United States and in large parts of Europe, the working poor, where people have both one and two jobs, but still cannot get the ends to meet. And why? Indeed, because the basis for a good working life in Norway has been the subject of professional organisation, tripartite cooperation and power allocation. I want to warn against discrimination and a disparity that makes ordinary people lose out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e486	In the languages of the throne, the government stressed ‘individual safety’ and ‘outsiders’ are given a new chance’. It's maybe here we have one of the big divisions in politics, because where the government wants to put in the effort to repair, the Workers' Party is committed to putting in policies that just prevent people from falling outside. Kindergarten and school play a crucial role in providing equivalent opportunities to master their own lives. We know that there is a direct link between education, health and poverty. Absence in secondary education is one of the greatest societal challenges of our time. Without completion of secondary education, the chance to get into work, then into housing and get control of your own life is very small. The school is an arena that reinforces the differences, but it's also an arena where there are possibilities, and where you get the most effect of equalizing the differences. When we know that a large proportion of the children don't eat lunch and don't bring food at school, and it's obvious to most people that children need energy to learn, the government should rather strengthen the food supply rather than remove the fruit. The government has defined the lack of ability to convert as the biggest threat to the Norwegian model of society, but here the government has helped to reverse a conversion act that has demonstrated an impact on learning and to reduce social inequalities. When we know that several young people are struggling with mental health and see that the municipalities are not using the funds that we have spent here in Stortinget to provide school health, why aren't you earmarking the funds? The government has just said that they are willing to control the municipalities in terms of kindergarten rates. Why don't you do it in school health? When we know that kindergarten is perhaps what matters most to future mastering and learning for those who have a difficult starting point, why remove the transfers to kindergarten to the municipalities, and then in the next round to decorate it by differentiating the prices for the poorest? Everyone knows that there are general welfare schemes without stigmatisation that have the best effect. When we know that participation in organized sport is of great importance to mastering and to experience being part of a community, why create the unforeseeableness of the idealists in local sports that we experience when the VAT compensation scheme becomes pure bingo, as it has been this year? Early effort must not be just a matter of honor. A knowledge-based policy requires that we dare to think again, and that we take on new knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e499	The Prime Minister's attempt to tell the world that we, who represented the Red-Green Government, have lived in a bubble and do not have the ability and the will to meet tomorrow's challenges, is – with respect to reporting – a little voice by a Prime Minister. The truth is that she came to the deck table, and unfortunately we note that she is about to clear the table without everyone going to be served. She promised to change Norway, and she is now in the process of doing so. If it makes it better for those sitting at the bottom of the table, I guess it's doubtful. The working party shall be a constructive opposition party, as has been obtained from the contributions of several of my colleagues in my party in this debate. When the government in its throne announced a major focus on international issues, such as climate, poverty, war and conflict, we are playing in the Workers' Party on team. Building the country has been a clear message from the Workers' Party during the debate. International solidarity has given us a great place in such a message. Martin Tranmæl said it like this: We should have our legs planted in Norwegian soil, but with our faces facing outwards. Those were wise words when they were said, and at least as important today as they were at that time. There is no shortage of crises and challenges in the world. My party leader and co-representative Gahr Støre has often used the term ‘far away’. Many of us meet ‘far away’ — with all its opportunities and atrocities — while we sit in the armchair, and often while things happen there and then. The summer terror threats were an ice-cold warning that «far away» is closer than we like to know, and it does something with our sense of security. The news today was that the first Norwegian Ebola infected auxiliary worker will land in a few hours at Gardermoen. And on the border with NATO Turkey, ISIL has soon conquered the border town of Kobani. How does such events affect the construction of the country? How do they affect my sense of security? There are many questions and many answers, but we have to be prepared that they will be part of what we meet tomorrow. Differences in Norwegian policy can be considerable in many areas, but from a security point of view, it is important to establish that in the area of security and defence policy, with all its diversity, there is a great deal of political consensus. It creates trust, and it contributes to security. I note that our Minister of Defence will have clearer priorities in the Defence after Russia's upgrading in the wake of the Ukraine crisis. For me, as a northern resident, it is important to be clear that the defence presence in the north is still going to have a high priority. What the Minister for Defence said from the pulpit last night is reassuring. It is also important for me in this context to express my agreement with the representative Huitfeldt that our close and good relationship with Russia still needs to be maintained, despite all that is happening in Ukraine. We see that people to people-relations contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e514	We've got a knowledge minister who talks well about school. That's good. But the school needs more than that. It needs a government council that implements. A lot is good at school. We employed several teachers, renewed teacher training, introduced several teaching hours, requirements for admission to teacher training, strengthened school health services and refurbished school buildings. Luckily, this bet continues. There is also a broad consensus on continuing to make good teachers even better. That is why we introduced immersion requirements for new teachers, and we support that requirement now to be extended to all teachers. But that this should not be fully phased in until 2029, does not exactly exist in action. The Minister of Knowledge said yesterday that this should have happened eight years ago. There would have been no problem for the previous government to say the exact same thing, that this should be introduced from 2029. That could have been said in 2005, which could have been said in 1995, which could have been said in 1975. So vague and little actionable is the statement. In the speeches and contributions of the government parties, the commitment to school is commendable, and we find a lot of agreement on school policy. But when it comes to implementation, then the government is paying attention to opening wide-open doors. When the Minister of Knowledge talks about more discipline in school, it is completely without follow-up. When the government talks about professionalism, it boils down to a budget increase. In reality, there is no promise either – it is a continuation of what a unanimous increase decided in June 2013 and, after a year, the government has not yet followed up this promise. When the Minister of Knowledge now launches higher quality requirements for teacher students and says that they have to have the grade 4 in mathematics, it's really just talking about an advance. Right-wing promises are not to be misunderstood. The Right Programme says that you need to score 4 or better in Norwegian, math and English. Well, the requirement for grade 4 in Norwegian and English is already abandoned. Then you're left with the requirement of 4 in math. But even that requirement is now abandoned. The strategy paper Teachers' Promises states that the government will put in work compensatory advances in mathematics for applicants who do not have the grade 4. But if you can go in with the grade 3 just take an advance, it's something completely different than a rating of 4. Call it what you want, but it's not enforcement. Finally, if we are to have an even better school, those who run the schools must be able to afford it. If the local economy continues to deteriorate, it will not help with higher requirements for teacher students or more continuing education. Then the message will be to the teachers at school: Listen, the good news is that you're going to get further education. The bad news is that we can't afford to hire you anymore. It may be action, but it's not a school effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e531	The Prime Minister pointed out some of the most important challenges we face in our country now and in the future. The challenge picture is quite similar to what the previous government described, but the solutions are different. The Prime Minister described the seven lean years, or was it eight lean years, the country has suffered with red-green government, lack of renewal, drought, lack of adaptability, reduced productivity, yes, I don't remember everything. But I record that Norway now has a saving angel in the form of the new government, which is going to save us all out of this misery – from being the greatest of aid, from having Europe's lowest unemployment, working to all, flourishing cultural life, well-functioning tripartite cooperation and a school for everyone. I even believe that Norway was at the top of the UN list of the best countries to live in the world. The time for renewal droughts must be over, said the Prime Minister. We've listened to people, the Prime Minister said. That's good. The innovation I have heard the government talk about, is about the re-use of old solutions, ‘resell’ that they do in business by putting ‘new’ ahead. But where the business community is busy telling me that the content is the same, the government is busy telling me that the content is new. It's not. If the Prime Minister listens further, she will hear that many say no to what is now coming as reuse. No thanks are given to working time arrangements, no thanks to cuts in the spring rate, no thanks to new hospital structures and free treatment choices, no thanks to reservation for permanent staff and no thanks to agricultural changes. No thanks to billions of people who already have the most, says the Workers' Party. No thanks to cut aid, we say. Here the representative Hareide was clear yesterday. That's very good. The government seems to focus on the change in direction associated with 1 pst. goal. The goal no longer seems to be to give aid and culture 1 pst. of the budget. It might seem that the government has a goal of getting 1 pst. from the values of the Community transferred to those who have the most already. 4 B.C.E. kr i tax cut was wrong – 10 brd. kr, if that's what's coming, hair travelers are wrong. But the direction is clear. Differences in policy are evident when fog lightens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e542	In a world that is very heavily influenced by material wealth, even in our own country, there is one challenge that needs to be pointed out, even in a debate on the throne. There is a constant development of major differences. This is true in many countries in Europe, including our own country. Fortunately, we're better off here. I think we can all agree on what's the reason for that. It's that we have strong communities and that we don't have a liberalized working life. The two factors are the basis for the fact that the differences in society are not going to develop dramatically. It doesn't seem right, but there's an undertone in this persuasion debate and in what's being said by the government parties and by the government's representatives that this is something you're aware of, and that you have to deal with it. But the most important thing – and we will probably get a demonstration tomorrow, as I understand it – is the following issue: The right side in Norway has a historical view and today this mantra: If you fund the community weaker, get the taxes down, the cake gets bigger and better for everyone. It's said over and over again. The question is: what society is the right-hand side referred to in such a context, where has this been successful? Is it Britain? The country has gone from being a future society in Europe to becoming a class society. Is that Germany they're referring to? There are 5 million employees under 50 kroner an hour. Is that Sweden they're referring to? The Swedish Moderates left their own idea that this was a correct policy. So you're going to start that way here in Norway. You want to use that rhetoric and try to conceal what you really want, by just saying that there are some differences in the population that are not so dangerous. I'm going to name it – even in relation to what I unfortunately don't have so much time to talk about, namely the liberalisation of the labour market. That's all that is said about temporary employment, but there's one other, serious aspect: it's that the government is trying to weaken the legal authority of the trade union movement in the Norwegian community. That the NHO doesn't see the danger attached to it, I don't understand. But I'll name it. It's that this is actually class fight in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e550	I registered that at the beginning of the representative Kolberg's posts he spoke of common by a majority. Then I thought it was nice, new paces from the Workers' Party. But later in the post he was back in private. There is some difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. We identify and manage to see that there are several communities and that it has a value in Norway. Norway stands out in some areas. We're not going to be satisfied, but there's something special about our country, and one of those things is our common working life. It's a political community, but it's a lot more than that. There is a model that provides for dialogue and constructive discussion between different parties. We can be proud of that without being complacent. Working life now stands as one of those points where it is actually possible to know what the Workers' Party means. In the Workers' Party, there is now a process of development in which those who participate in it are not even able to stick with it. Quite unisonly, it has not been in terms of working life either – last year Raymond Johansen was out and said that more flexibility had to be discussed in working life, but lately it seems that the Workers' Party has finally concluded in one area, and it has been stated that all changes made to the Working Environment Act should be reversed. It turned out that the status quo holds for the Workers' Party. It's a little strange, because when you see a working life changing, it's funny that the Workers' Party thinks this is about the only area where their policies don't have to be developed. We get criticism that we're using the argument in eight years with a red-green government. But the Workers' Party makes it incredibly relevant every day by believing that no development is needed after eight years with their government. I am pleased that we have some proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act that are now on the table. I believe that we in Norway – a country where youth unemployment is nearly three times as high as unemployment elsewhere – need to lower the thresholds to the labour market. I believe that we need greater respect for local agreements made, agreements made between local trustees and local employers, so that they can put up their turn situation as best they can. What's so amazing is that where you try this, user satisfaction goes up, there's also a better working environment and sick leave goes down. And as if that wasn't enough, there will be several full-time positions of it, just by respecting local agreements that are made. I look forward to having a further debate with the Labour Party on these issues, but I hope that this debate can be more constructive than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e565	200 years ago, our 112 people gave us the framework for modern Norway. For 200 years, in the post-session session, the representatives of big business from all over the country have filled this Eidsvoll framework with their content and visions for the future. My generation was born at the same time as Norway became an oil nation, and as a representative of this generation, I am pleased that the government of the throne has announced that the oil activity will no longer be the engine of economic growth in Norway. From a generation perspective, this is good. From a climate and environmental perspective, this is good. And from the point of view of competition, this is good. The government says it will pursue a forward-looking industrial policy, which facilitates increased value creation and employment in all parts of the Norwegian economy. Prime Minister Solberg said in his speech in today's debate that we must work on the transition in time. Yes, it is essential to be able to finance future welfare goods. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. That is why Knut Arild Hareide, as Minister for the Environment, put down the Low Emissions Committee. That is why the Christian People's Party in the last two climate agreements has just come to the conclusion that Norway will become a low-carbon society, which will provide us with new opportunities for economic growth and increased employment. The Christian People's Party has a clear expectation that the government will facilitate the best possible position for business. Our ambition must be that our business and research institutions should be important drivers of the transformation that must take place. In a low-carbon society, the bioeconomy is central, because the bioeconomy is simply value creation and competitiveness based on renewable biomass from soil, forest and sea. And Norway, yes, we have a lot of access to biofuels. We are the world leader in research and development in some segments, and thus Norway is in a unique situation, where we can participate and transform a wide range of high-quality products that the growing world population will increasingly demand. Our 112 things were brave and wise, and they set the standard. The Christian People's Party has a clear expectation that the government and the Storing are just as wise and courageous and that the bioeconomy will be an important answer when the oil activity will no longer be the engine of our economic growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e582	90 pst. by children over one year of age and 96,5 pst. children over three years of age are in kindergarten. That's why it's important and it's right when the government is now strengthening kindergartens. The quality shall be increased, the number of spaces increased and the price shall be differentiated. The government introduces a differentiated price in the kindergarten, and we get a device that's more fair. Those who already have at least 500 kroner of reasonable babysitting space each month, while the rest of us get an increase of 100 kroner. This is fair, and it's a distribution policy that you would immediately think SV and the Workers' Party would applaud, but it doesn't seem to be the case. The representative and party leader Gahr Støre confirmed his scepticism in the reply earlier in the debate. It must be allowed to assume that there might have been a mistake, a somewhat automated response, because I find it difficult that the Workers' Party will go against us lowering the price for those who have the tightest economics. When SV's representatives and also party leader Audun Lysbakken were negative to the proposal, I had to read some party program and refresh some ideology history, because you could wonder. But then: Low cost of kindergarten is one of the points in SV's program. The lot SV is otherwise based on redistribution, and that's possible here the shoe presses? For SV, they don't just want redistribution; they want radical redistribution. Then it might not be radical enough that we increase the price by 100 kroner for someone and lower it by five times as much for those who really need it. On direct questions about this not in fact a quite sensible policy, the representative Lightbakken replied that it is ‘unfair’ and went on to refer to ‘the second poorest’. Then it starts to turn a little bit to follow SV's reasoning. Because when we now re-distribute, as one would think that also SV wants us to, instead, the term «the second poorest» is introduced. Then maybe it's just a matter of time before SV also promotes the demand for increased taxes for those who already have the ‘next most’? How many groups are there on the list of representatives of the Lighthouse? Is the center about where the fourth poorest meet them with the fifth most from before? I believe that the vast majority – perhaps even after each of the representatives Gahr Støre and Lysbakken – will see the value of making kindergarten more reasonable for those who are really struggling financially. Furthermore, we strengthen the quality of kindergartens, where already well over 90 pst. of our smallest children spend the day, and we're increasing the number of places by up to 800 new ones, so that the waiting time also drops for those who don't have enough room. There is little doubt that what we are now doing for kindergartens will increase quality, increase flexibility and give a fairer pricing of the offer. A little inspired by the opposition's search for broad compromise, I hope that SV and the Workers' Party will join in and play and will not remain in the sandbox and furthest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e596	The President has some doubts about the parliamentary wording of this article.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e599	The value creation potential of the seafood industry is high, and with proper grip today, we can ensure a multiple of the next decades. With a growing world population and growing need for food, Norway has a unique starting point as a supplier of healthy seafood, technology and knowledge of the production of seafood. The Government will further develop the fisheries and aquaculture industry within all three dimensions of the concept of sustainability: economic, social and environmental. We need to create sustainable maritime nutrition today to create safe jobs and new revenues when oil revenues go down. In the spring of 2015, the government will present a big message to ensure sustainable growth for the Norwegian aquaculture industry. The industry shall have predictable criteria for growth, based on indicators of the acceptable environmental impact of the industry. The government wants the host municipalities to have their share of the value creation from the aquaculture industry. Local authorities need to be actively stimulated to facilitate increased breeding activity. Future-oriented aquaculture and world-class equipment suppliers create safe and competitive coastal jobs. The government will bet on marine research. For Norway, as a maritime economy, it is important to be knowledge-leading in areas of strategic importance for further development and growth in industry. A sound knowledge base is necessary to ensure the sustainable management of living marine resources and sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry. Research is essential for realising the high development and value creation potential of the marine food industry and is essential for strengthening the industry's future competitiveness. The government will give priority to improving EU market access for Norwegian seafood products and reducing veterinary barriers to trade in seafood. I am committed to strengthening the competitiveness of the Norwegian seafood industry. There is a need for conversion, and we will follow up the NOU Committee, or the Tveterås Committee, on the framework conditions of the seafood industry, which is scheduled to be presented at the turn of the year. We will give priority to measures that ensure more access to fresh raw material throughout the year. The Government’s strategy for the live storage of fish is an instrument in this context. The aim is to extend the period of access to fresh raw material and to increase the quality of the raw material itself. This can contribute to increased value creation in the cod sector. We are simplifying and improving the seafood industry today to create profitable and secure jobs for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e612	We get many reports that show that we will in the future have a major shortage of skilled workers if we do not take action now. A survey of NHO’s member companies shows that almost one-fifths have a major need to recruit those with vocational education at the level of the school, and today these companies have major difficulties in acquiring the skills they need. At the same time, vocational school students account for approx. 6 pst. by all those taking education in Norway in addition to secondary school. It is important to increase the number of persons taking shorter and practical education courses in Norway, says the director of the NHO competence department, and LO is also very concerned about this. As I said, many analyses show that people with vocational education are very much in demand, and the conclusion is crystal clear: we need to stimulate more people to take vocational education. The Prime Minister said in a reply with the representative Gahr Støre earlier today that she was pleased that the Workers' Party is now seeing the need for a professional lift. The party is and has always been a professional and tradesman. I remind the Prime Minister that under the red-green government we dealt with the big message on the right track, and in this respect the Stortinget adopted a number of measures in the field of vocational training that would be the first steps in the right direction to meet the challenges. Although the Minister of Knowledge has talked about the importance of this, we have seen little action for vocational training, so I have some questions. Where are the measures adopted last June? And further: Where does the focus on more practice become for students, increased use of accommodation schemes, other groups entering school and better counselling services? When will the government implement the measures that the entire sector is waiting for, which have already been adopted and which it can only put into practice? This autumn, the government really has the opportunity to show that they're serious, for example. with regard to measures for more than one apprentice. It hasn't been long since the Red Isak cheered over a huge boost to the apprenticeships. They would get $50,000, said the Council of State. Then it turned out that the fasitite was a tenth, only NOK 5000 for each business. I think it was a disappointment for the Council of State too when he discovered what the sum really was. That's why the question is from me to the Prime Minister: are companies still going to live with a tenth of what was said, or are you now paying $50,000 on the table? Finally, a completely different matter: the advance party and tolls. The representative Vosskensen spoke yesterday evening about the shame of having toll stations set up in the country. Now the Progress Party is in government and has the Minister of Transport. There are and there are still toll stations in the country, administered by the Progress Party. In addition, the goods are now in agreement with their forward-looking partners in this room for tolls. According to the party's own rhetoric, it must mean that they are pursuing a shameful policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e623	Last year the country wanted a new government, and it got Norway. Now the Right Party and the Advance Party are going to present their first state budget. At least we've been looking forward to a long time. The census shows that we're working in the right direction, and sums up the good work the government has started on. To ensure our future well-being and security, a well-functioning business is a crucial factor — a business that is able to take care of and create new and profitable jobs. And we're gonna build and live all over the country. An important instrument is therefore to strengthen the competitiveness of business through investment in infrastructure, knowledge and growth-enhancing tax incentives. Good infrastructure is the very pillar of a modern society. Someone might have seen Focus a short time ago, about the company in Stryn that depended on transport companies that fought through the tunnels and further over the Stryn Mountain, all year round every day. You don't have to go that far to find transport challenges. Also several places in the county I come from, Buskerud, which is relatively central to the East, are the challenges far too great, from the Hurum peninsula in the south to Hallingdal in the north. It is too much lag in maintenance and lack of construction of Norwegian roads. In the case of the county roads, 250 million were. re-prioritised from the regular regional policy resources for upgrading and renewal of county roads. Overall, the framework for upgrading and renewal of the county roads will be 780 million. kr for the current year. This is an increase of 280 million. Compared to the draft budget of the Red-Green Government. The government is working on a toll reform that will reduce costs and burdens for road users, and thus also for business. Several road projects shall be lifted and their development implemented more effectively. Road and rail shall be built faster by reducing their planning time. A powerful government has high targets. The infrastructure shall be so good as to constitute a competitive advantage for Norway. The government lowered the property tax and removed the inheritance tax in order to strengthen private ownership and secure Norwegian jobs. The police, prosecution, the tax system, the Labour Inspectorate and the social partners have all pointed to labour-life crime as an increasing problem. Activities that systematically contravene laws and regulations undermine our entire working life. The consequences are serious for the workers affected and the companies affected. Small and medium-sized enterprises can tell about unworthy competitive conditions and daily struggles to survive themselves. The government also demonstrates action in the areas of labour crime and social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e649	Over the past few weeks, the Evening Post has written strong articles on women growing up outside Norway’s borders through the Women’s Life series. In a number of countries, being a woman or a girl is synonymous with hard work, discrimination, assault and violence. One of the stories that have made the strongest impression on me was the case from India, where 7,000 female fetuses are sorted away every single day. In many parts of the country, girls are considered a burden, while boys are the ones who are going to take the family on and provide the family with the necessary income. Doctors travel from village to village with portable ultrasound devices to find and take away girls' fetuses, even though the law says that using ultrasound devices is prohibited in order to influence the sex composition of the family. In the series in the evening post, we have also read about violent men globally, that there is a greater threat for girls and women than cancer, malaria, road accidents and wars combined. In South Africa, three women are killed every day by their partner, and every third girl is raped before she reaches the age of 18. A total of 603 million women live in countries where domestic violence is not prohibited. The world still has a long way to go towards equality. Sorting based on gender and violence against women is totally unacceptable. Norway must work internationally to promote gender equality and equality. The Christian People's Party will, on the basis of the UN Convention on Women, include the consideration of equality in all Norwegian foreign policy, particularly in development policy, and, in particular, give priority to the efforts to ensure girls' right to education. This is the most important thing we can do for women to have influence, for women to be allowed to participate, and for us to be able to raise them to the places they deserve. But also in our own country in 2014, we experience discrimination on the basis of gender. A particularly important challenge for gender equality in Norway is violence and abuse. Women are more exposed to gross violence from the partner and are also subject to rape. That is why the political work for equality must not stop in our own country. It is a great canvas to bleach both nationally and internationally, and we must be involved in that fight, in the important work for women.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e664	The languages of the throne yesterday were defined by some as the most political in many years. It depends on the eyes that see, or the ears that hear and want to hear. We in the Workers' Party heard very little about children – we are busy with children, childhood, childcare facilities for everyone and child protection that takes care of vulnerable children. In particular, there was little about equality – equality that permeates the policy to be shaped. This means facilitating participation in working life for both women and men, having good leave arrangements where the danger must have its share of the time, and enough childcare facilities with competence. In the Workers' Party, we have programmed that you should be able to receive cash support from the parental leave until you have a kindergarten – until all places are occupied. We still believe that. But now we see that the Right, along with the Progress Party, is driving the policy in a new direction. It was interesting to hear the representative of Løvaas about kindergarten and the great bet of the sitting government. In the previous budget, they cut the nursery allowance to the municipalities. It gave 7,000 fewer places. And as a result, the Christian People's Party and the Left had to negotiate a more moderate reduction in the revised national budget. Now there's a The only certainty is that it means increasing kindergarten queues, and that the promise of increased flexibility and the possibility of multiple admissions is fading away. The vows from the election campaign have evaporated. The nursery prices shall be changed. The working party is not against the bad economy to get better, but the question is whether it gets better. The class struggle has an interesting approach to it in today's newspaper. It is especially those with more kids who will not get better. Giving lower prices is in line with the rules already in force. It can be followed up, and the municipalities can do it themselves. From my own municipality, Larvik, I can give a good example of that. The parental payment has been graduated by income with five different breakdowns. Full space and under 2G is actually free space. There are several places like that, and it's gradually increasing in many places as well. Municipalities do a lot of the work, but they also need a good and strengthened municipal economy. They need local politicians who see the inhabitants and families of children. That is how the Workers' Party will build the country further. We want good cooperation between local politicians and Stortinget, for a good community economy and for good, safe childcare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e677	The government deserves tribute for having launched a long-term modernisation of Norway, in the form of a municipal reform. But I have to say that it is alarming that the Workers' Party has positioned itself on the sideline of the process. We in the Left are impatient as to what tasks the government sees fit for the new municipalities. The possibilities of getting more and more jobs can motivate more and more mergers than was initially planned. Major municipalities can also have new responsibilities in the environment, industry, culture, health and care, and we need stronger municipalities to meet the challenges of the future. But there has to be a local democracy reform, because the goal of the reform must be to ensure that municipalities can take on greater tasks and that more power is moved closer to the inhabitants. It can not only be that municipalities should grow larger – it must not least be that they should become stronger. The public authority to be exercised must be as close as possible to those concerned. Decisions which have consequences for a geographical exposure should also be able to be taken in that area. Decentralisation of power is a prerequisite for mobilising involvement and participation in local policies and for the local community to have the greatest possible responsibility for its own development. By decentralising tasks, we make municipalities important and thus also ensure greater legitimacy in the population. For the Left, the establishment of a regionally elected level is a central part of the municipal reform, and we are pleased that there is a majority in the Stortinget for a three-level model. While the Right Party and the Advance Party want to strangle the County Council for tasks, before any liquidation, the Left wishes to revitalise the intermediate level. In the view of the Left, the maintenance of three elected levels is a prerequisite for the decentralisation of government. It is therefore important that we not only discuss what tasks the new municipalities can have, but also what governmental tasks can be added to a regionally elected level. The scale of tasks that can be moved will then affect the size of the regions, not least their strength, pervasiveness and legitimacy. We are also committed to shifting power, authority and, not least, jobs out of the capital area and building under viable communities and actionable regions throughout the country. Therefore, we need larger and stronger municipalities and a revitalized middle level, with significant authority within its region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e695	In the Labour Party, we believe in strong Community solutions. We get more combined than we do each other, and it gives more security and more opportunities for the individual when we set up for each other. One of the communities in which the Labour Party and the labour movement have a strong relationship is the Labour Environment Act. The Working Environment Act has given ordinary people great opportunities – opportunities for permanent employment rather than temporary employment so that we have security of work and income and can support ourselves and our family, and opportunities for a family life because the use of overtime is regulated and limited. The Workers' Party will protect the rights acquired by workers because it provides predictable and safe lives. Safe people provide more than unsafe people. Many people take their acquired rights for granted. These are probably disappointed now when the Right and Advance Party will weaken the Working Environment Act. The changes proposed give more power to the employer and less power to the employee. Minister of Labour Eriksson has sent the amendments to the hearing, but he has not intended to hear the hearing opinions. The right and the right are so eager to give more power to the employer that they extend the right to use temporary employment, regardless of what the hearing says. This is power arrogance. I'm not surprised, but I'm very, very disappointed. There was little about equality in the throne—there are several that have mentioned. However, Eriksson’s letter of consultation says a little about women, namely that women are more temporarily employed than men. This means that more temporaryity in working life will go hardest on women. As you know, there are also women who work most part-time. Increased access to temporary employment may mean that pregnant people are not offered a permanent job – not because they are not able to work, but because they are going to be further away than men in similar positions. The removal of the paperwork by the government will also make women's association with the labour market worse. The women become the big losers with government policy. Where the Labour Party has a clear policy to promote gender equality, because it is good for the big community and for individuals, the government is tearing down policies that have contributed to more equality over the years. It's sad. While the Right Party and the Advance Party prioritise tax cuts for the richest, the Workers Party prioritises welfare for the people. And where the Right Party and the Advance Party will weaken the rights of ordinary workers, the Labour Party will stand up for the same peoples.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e718	Norway’s population has grown faster than ever before. The growth in 2013 was 57 800 registered persons, or 1.1 pst. increase, to approx. Five million. residents. Nearly four out of five Nordics live in cities and agglomerations, where the growth is strongest, and most strongly in the urban areas of Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger/Sandnes, Trondheim, Fredrikstad/Sarpsborg and Drammen. There's an increasing centralization. The cities are growing, and fewer and fewer people live in the districts, and for the Christian People's Party, some of this is a little worrying. It affects housing prices. They're five times as tall as when they were at their lowest in 1993, and they're now higher than they've ever been in Norwegian history. This is due not only to population growth, but also to the growth of the Norwegian economy and low interest rates. In addition, different family patterns have given several individual households and thus increased demand for dwellings. This population growth and economic development pose major challenges for climate, food, biodiversity and natural resources. Every year about 15 000 measures of land are built in Norway, an area corresponding to more than 2000 football courses. The degradation of food soil is an irreversible process, and we are responsible for taking care of the food soil we have. It also has to do with our own degree of self-sufficiency. Norwegian cities and agglomerations are often scattered across large areas in a way that requires the use of motor vehicles and the degradation of food soils. We need to ensure that Norway now has a sustainable housing and urban development policy. We have built too much around the car and not around the lift in densely built strips. You plan for cows instead of times, bikes or collective tracks. Food soils are exposed, e.g. in the construction of shopping centres, which in turn challenge urban culture and business in traditional urban centres. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to think new and smarter about housing and land disposal for that purpose. The vision must be that we can go, cycle or take public transport in everyday life, both to work and in leisure. These are measures that will combat climate change and take care of food soils and green areas. It will also create a warmer living and growing environment for our children and grandchildren. The Christian People's Party believes that, in the interests of soil protection, the environment, quality of life and social capital, we are now going to be in favour of more denser and higher settlements, especially around collective nodes. We want a system in which the state enters into committed partnerships with the municipalities to prioritize transport systems. The cooperation agreements shall state: ‘Cooperating parties will pursue offensive climate policies and strengthen climate reconciliation.’ We therefore expect and hope for an offensive position on these aspects of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e738	The census points out that the biggest threat to the Norwegian model of society is that we are unable to change in time. We're in a hurry to get started. The first area to be developed in the Common Era is the public sector and welfare systems. They must meet tomorrow's needs and not yesterday's. Norway maintains a 50-year-old municipal structure and a hospital organisation based on a different medical practice. Both municipalities and health services need change in order to meet a new time. The tasks assigned to these two major parts of the public sector are changing in the form of increasing numbers and more citizens with greater demands. It is therefore interesting to hear in this debate the resistance to change. We want to build patients' health care. It implies change. Changes are often what are needed to improve. The right is concerned with improving the health system and the municipal sector. The government will promote a number of things to achieve this. This debate has shown us that the system has many defenders here in the Chamber. But we're not chosen to defend the system, we're chosen to manage it, and we prefer to improve it too. We have bigger ambitions than just building on today's system. We want to build new and better. It was claimed from some teams that the system works well just to add more money. In a time of limited resources, especially human resources, this is too passive. We need to find new solutions that make our total resources work as well as possible together. We believe that this must change to the municipal sector, to the municipal structure, and not least to the health sector. We want to introduce free treatment choices. We would like, among other things: make stricter requirements for medical and emergency medicine. We will adopt a national health and hospital plan. Why do we want to do that? Well, to build patients’ health care — a health care system capable of meeting the future. And yes, it's going to be change -- change to it better to create a society with opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e751	Now for hours we have heard and seen representatives from the Party of Advancement and the Right who run up to the pulpit to impress the power of action and the wisdom of the government. So the fact is that this government in its first session has delivered roughly half of the number of cases to the Stortinget, if you compare with as well Bondevik II as Stoltenberg I. So the power of action of this government is really like that, and where they act, they're wrong. It started with strong tax cuts, and they got, the ones that have the most from before. They followed up with cuts in the municipal economy. Then there was a proposal to bind the municipalities to finance the borrowing and placing of barley. Then regional development funds were cut. This is followed up by proposals to significantly weaken the Working Environment Act on a number of points. Then you go on privatizing, among other things. maintenance in the Defence without the government being able to demonstrate that such privatisation is neither cheaper nor better. And then we get a signal that this is where you want to break the NSB monopoly, you want to sell out the Fly train. Furthermore, we get a community reform that in many ways is based on coercion and threats, and at least if the local government thinks it doesn't want to merge, while the government itself is unable to give the municipalities a clear indication of what new tasks they might be given, and at least they won't be able to do it until another six-eight months. So they say that this is action. It's just that the force is pulling us in the wrong direction. Norway is at the top of the world in terms of living conditions. We're supposed to be happy about that. But that's a historic result of the fact that we've chosen to solve the problems in school, health and care together. Working together has been and is the Labour Party's response to many of the challenges. We want to build for the future, we don't want the short-term solutions, which only promote the interests of the few. If we are to be able to solve the welfare problems and focus on our common future, it is necessary to strengthen the local economy, not cut it. We need to strengthen the school, the knowledge. We must strengthen our efforts for a good and safe working life, not weaken the work environment law. I register that the government of Solberg chooses to go another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e760	Our country has always faced major changes in many areas up through time, and so it is now. What characterizes our time is that the changes happen at an ever faster pace, and we have become even more part of the changes that are happening globally. Both in Europe and in the rest of the world, we face major security policy challenges, with war, terrorism and natural disasters. Although many wars and conflicts are far from us, they will still affect us as our world has become increasingly globalized. NATO has been our security anchor for many years, and today's world situation confirms that NATO is the security policy community that will ensure our citizens' freedom and security, which in turn facilitates growth and well-being. Our country has a good starting point to move further into the future by having a well-educated population, we have large natural resources and – not least – we have stable political conditions. There are increasing numbers of people on earth, and more and more countries see the importance of investing in training their population to compete with the developed and developed countries. This means that we also have to be willing to take a critical look at whether we have organized our business so that it is rusted for the future. The public sector is a service provider of a range of well-being goods, and over the years this sector has become very large. We need to see if there are any aspects of this that can be made more efficient in order to get more service output out of each krona that we grant annually. 50 years have passed since the last major municipal reform was adopted in the 1960s, and this area is mature for review. The government has started work on municipal reform, and this work has been widely supported by the Stortinget. That's a good starting point for getting this done. In order to ensure future security and well-being, we also need a well-trained population in the future. The government has invested heavily in research and education here. In order to operate our long-range country effectively, a decent and good, time-consuming infrastructure is important. Unfortunately, for too many years the infrastructure has been downgraded. It is the very lifeblood of society, and modernising infrastructure is the best thing we can do to facilitate our descendants so that they can operate our country more efficiently than we have done. It is gratifying that the government is now increasing efforts in both road construction and railway construction, and is facilitating this at a faster pace than before. I look forward to tomorrow when the budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e781	A year ago, the Right Party and the Advance Party took over the government offices. Since then, the climate debate has changed. From dealing with climate craziness and limitations, it is now about climate solutions and opportunities. In Haugesund in May we arranged a lunch meeting on how the maritime industry can contribute to green solutions. In the prestigious city government hall, not environmental activists, but middle-aged men with light blue shirts and blue blazers were sincerely interested in making Norwegian shipping greener. In mid-September, we received the report New Climate Economy. It has been developed by researchers, business leaders and former top politicians. That report crushes the myth that we have to choose between economic growth and climate change. With the right policies, we can get to both. On Thursday last week, in the throne, it was established that the oil will no longer be the engine of the Norwegian economy. The oil has been an incredible resource for Norway. It has made us prosperous through a combination of happiness and skill. In the future, we can't expect to have luck. What we need is skill – competence for conversion. Proper climate policies are good conversion policies. We need to invest today to take leadership in the green shift in the future. Then we must not slow down the changes that are coming. This is precisely where one of the distinctions goes in Norwegian policy – between the parties that want to convert as something fundamentally positive, and the parties that traditionally slow down changes in business structure. In the last year, the Right-Fremskritsparti government has started to work on increasing the returns of the climate technology fund. We have increased the mandate for environmental investment in the State pension fund abroad, and for the first time in 20 years, we have decided new government planning guidelines to get more climate-friendly urban development. This is climate action that shows that there is a difference between who is in government. That's why last year the election was important. In practice, we are now implementing – we four cooperation parties – climate policy Norway needs to be able to cope with the necessary transition to the low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e794	On Thursday last week, the king stood here in the hall and said that the government would "enhancing the climate agreement". Today we who listened could hear Erna Solberg say that no, we must be sober, it will be difficult to achieve the climate goals. Can the Prime Minister explain to me how it is possible both to strengthen the climate agreement and at the same time not to achieve the climate objectives? Does the Prime Minister say the king is wrong? Does the Prime Minister say that the King is leading the Greatness behind the light? We have to remember that the only reason Erna Solberg is sitting in that chair there is because she promised the Left and Christian People's Party to strengthen the climate agreement. I'm sorry, but with respect to reporting, there's not much to make sure that something has happened to do just that. What is certain is that when world leaders gather at the Paris climate summit next year, there will be no climate agreement that imposes climate obligations on us. All those who have followed developments know that at best we get an agreement that all countries commit to participate in a climate change in which we clearly record what we intend to contribute to by 2020 and 2030. So far, we have a proud prime minister who invites us to the climate change, but who does not stand up for himself. For one year she has repeated the phrase that the government should strengthen the climate agreement without filling it with content. For six months she and the Minister for the Environment have boasted that they have been listed by the Environment Directorate on what is going on to achieve Norway’s climate objectives. But during the six months that have passed since the list came, they have not promoted one of the proposed proposals for the Stortinget – not one. That's enough. When the government does not intend to contribute to Norway’s climate change momentum, the Stortinget must lead and do so. Therefore, SV is today promoting proposals based on the recommendations of the Environment Directorate, which will take over half of the efforts made to achieve Norway’s climate objectives by 2020. The objectives set by the Stortinget are cut in the oil sector's emissions, public demand for zero emissions from all buses, cars and other things that the public buys, the implementation of the electric car revolution by 2020, with which we are already very well engaged, cooperation with the industry on cutting and removing all fossil oil firing – not just a bit of fossil oil firing, as Erna Solberg promised his national meeting. If Erna Solberg thinks it's going to be difficult to reach the goal, she's in a hurry to get started with what can make us reach that goal. After this year's debate on the throne, it's just to conclude that the king was better than the prime minister. We need a prime minister who comes back and says, "Climate targets are to be met."
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e809	For the first time, a prime minister of the throne agrees that the oil economy cannot bear the Norwegian welfare society. This is a joyful approach. It may, in the opinion of the Centre Party, be a watershed. Therefore, it is important for Stortinget to provide it with content, with a robust conversion strategy for Norwegian business. When the growth of anthropogenic CO2 in the atmosphere has to be stopped, Norwegian production lives must be added to new, sustainable value creation. In our mixed economy, we have a long common political tradition to correct market forces through the legal and tax systems. Now the Storting has to follow up, so that we change the economic incentives. We have to implement the approaches in the census by getting a good business-economic profitability for those who work in the long value chains with green carbon. This is essential in order to implement this green nutrition strategy in practice. It has to end in this room by just talking about the vaguely defined concept of ‘climate’. Now we have to define the term 'climate neutrality', for example. Climate neutrality means that anthropogenic emissions of CO2 cannot exceed the capture of CO2 from land and sea photosynthesis, and the capture and storage of CO2 through CCS installations, which Mongstad would have been responsible for today. Furthermore, we need to engage in the development of industry, industry and technology, in the production, processing and use of renewable carbon. Renewable carbon has to be very profitable to bring about change. Youth must see and experience the sea of work. This will provide inspiration for vocational training, knowledge development and new technologies in skilled young people. The state has a responsibility, together with private ones, to raise risk capital, consolidate national ownership and make the production of green carbon profitable – i.e. two main steps. First, the size must combine fossil carbon CO2 taxes with the opposite stimulation of renewable carbon. Furthermore, the country must make available risk capital for necessary conversion and innovation. It is through proposals for the 2015 state budget that the government tells what they economically mean by the short sentences of the throne. And it is through the Storting's decision on the 2015 government budget that the bulk of the population decides what is going to be the practice for the environmental labour market. It'll be important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e837	The centre party will bring the whole country into operation. That means that we want growth and development across the country, not just because it is important for the districts, but because it is important for the country. The business community wants better transport, and I have to say that it is incredibly little voice from the Prime Minister to claim that there has been a weak investment in infrastructure. But I will also interpret it as a positive sign of what is coming on the state budget tomorrow. For example, in the 2014 red-green budget proposals, the railway investments of around 60 pst. And now we can expect a much stronger bet when the state budget is presented tomorrow. We have to be happy about that. Let's hope that the joy is prolonged. Business is concerned with safety in our road tunnels. It was therefore good that last year the government increased the appropriations in its change to the State budget for 2014. But far more sad it was that 250 million. kr came out of the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left and another 250 million. kr in the revised state budget. The government should have been concerned with tunnel safety even when it does not break out of the tunnel mouths. Obviously, the government has little left to create new jobs in an interaction between private and public. Regional development funds are cut and not praised by the government. The right parliamentary leader said yesterday that no one is going on demonstration trains for regional development funds. But that doesn't mean it's not important. Whoever goes with a founder in his stomach doesn't start his career on a demonstration train. The companies that have not started up have a much weaker voice than the ones that have started up. When the nutrition committee is on the move, we'll hear another story. For example, the Moods of Norway could tell us how important $100,000 in start-up grants were to their success story. It is based on the business idea ‘happy clothes for happy people’. We need more of that, not less. The centre party has a clear expectation that the apprentice grant will be increased in the state budget. It's a feedback we get from business. Similarly, they want to return to red-green laying rules. An important contribution to value creation and a more environmentally friendly Norway is better tax conditions for renewable energy. Here the leaks indicate that something is coming tomorrow. But in addition, it is necessary to ensure that the pressure is kept up on both network deployment and concessional treatment. A living and creative business throughout the country depends on an active industrial policy. Wealth taxes and spells for county roads are not alone enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e856	The Right-Fremskritsparte-Government bases its policy on trust in individuals, families, entrepreneurs and volunteering, increased confidence in the inhabitants and an enhanced social security network for those outside. The government delivers on our election campaigns and is more committed to creating safe jobs, building school knowledge, quality and freedom of choice in health care and faster road and public transport development. These are important matters for the South, and there are important issues for the whole country. We lower taxes and charges for ordinary people and Norwegian business owners to strengthen competitiveness and create safe jobs in the future. We are increasing the investment in research and innovation to create new solutions and what we will live on in the future. We build more roads and paths so we can get safely and quickly from A to Å, and the goods will get faster to customers in Norway and abroad. We simplify Norway to free time from unnecessary bureaucracy to value-creating work. An example is the requirement for original annexes for travel bills, which were cancelled in the summer of 2014. The economic savings of this single measure have been estimated at 1.2 billion. kr in the year of business and municipalities. In addition, there will be savings for state enterprises. Norway is a country with great natural resources, great opportunities and a standard of living that is completely at the top of the world. The basis for our well-being is the value creation that takes place in all parts of the country. Although the Norwegian economy still has higher growth than the vast majority of countries around us, Magne Østnor, a DNB market analyst, points out that growth is on the way down in Norway, while it is on the way up in many other countries. ‘Norway has never seen such a deterioration in competitiveness in the past as in the years since 2005’, says Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel in Nordea. The hourly rates in industry have increased from 20 pst. over the average of our trading partners in the EU to close to 70 pst. above the cut. Compared to the level in Sweden and Denmark, Norwegian hourly labour costs are between 30 and 40 pst. higher, while 50-70 pst. higher than in France and Germany and two and a half times higher than in the United Kingdom. In order to safeguard our well-being in the future, it is absolutely necessary to distort the use of money towards investment in knowledge and infrastructure as well as growth-promoting tax havens that can guarantee Norwegian competitiveness in the future. We are well in the process of fulfilling our electoral commitments, solving important societal challenges and preparing Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e879	The workline is very strong for the Right-Fremskritspart government. This is reflected not only in the day-to-day policy of the government, but also in the budget that is soon to be presented, more action is taken to show that it is worth working. Gahr Støre mentioned in his speech yesterday that tax havens lead to less well-being and more dependence on oil money. No, tax havens will provide more well-being and will make us less dependent on oil. Reduction of taxes and taxes will strengthen Norwegian business, which in turn will strengthen jobs. It's the value creation we live on, not the oil. The changes now made to the Labour Environment Act will also have a major and important impact on both employment and employment. The possibility of working more overtime in shorter periods is important for start-ups; it is important to be able to avoid seasonal fluctuations and not least to be able to complete large tasks within short deadlines. It's not about a permanent arrangement with more overtime – it's only about shorter periods. The total number of hours of overtime throughout the year is fixed. Increased access to temporary employment will also help more people get into work. The alternative for temporary employees is not necessarily a regular job, there is no job. The trade union movement has been and will probably continue to be very critical of and concerned about the changes that the Right-wing Party Government wants to make with the Working Environment Act. I do not share this criticism and concern. Workers have nothing to fear. But I'm going to give the trades movement a little bit right, because it's actually a group, if I can call it that, that will suffer with the proposed changes. But this ‘group’ is not organized, and it will never be. Now I'm talking about changes in the calculation fraction of the security guard. For those who want to lose it, the workers are not, but the wolf. Because it is not that the wolf is hungry only in the daytime when the County has office hours. The wolf will also have a good lambskin as an evening meal and would like to have a little dinner later. The grazing industry in Hedmark has actually pointed out that it is difficult to obtain the litter permit quickly enough late in the evening. For the County Council, this is a capacity question and an economic question. However, with the changes currently being made by the Right-Fremskritsparte Government, it will be easier for the State Environmental Protection Department to be able to obtain faster killing permits outside normal opening hours. This is a change that is going to be very well received in the predatory and agricultural district of Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e893	It makes the impression to us politicians when we see that people do not get into the labour market but stay outside, when youth falls out of school and does not get a good transition to adult life, when physical or mental illness puts people outside the working community and the social community. It makes the impression when we are confronted with poverty here in Norway or in the world around us, and it makes the impression when we see how fellow humans live on flight in fear of life many places in the world. That is why I am glad that this year’s speech highlights the responsibility we have for our fellow humans and for the community. Our government builds its policies on trust, trust in the individual, and respect for the fact that people are different, but should have equal rights. The goal of government work is a better welfare society for all, a strengthened social security network, secure jobs and a better climate. If we are to ensure a sustainable society for the generations that come after us, we must use our resources and the unique opportunities we have to create lasting values for our society. It is demanding and involves conversion in many areas. We see it clearly in my part of the country, where redundancies in the oil sector are now taking place too fully in an industry that has gone well, and in companies that have been solid. A few weeks ago, I visited some of the companies with southern connections in Singapore. There we got one clear feedback: it is competence and product development at home that is the basis for the success of these companies out there. Therefore, the government's targeted commitment to quality in school and higher education, strengthening research, investing in infrastructure and environmental technologies are crucial for the future competitiveness, not only in my part of the country, but throughout the country. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am particularly pleased that the Right-Fremskritsparti-government of Foreign Minister Børge Burnde announced a few days ago that we should increase the investment in education in development policy by half a billion dollars in education for children in crisis areas, where children in conflict areas in Syria, Jordan and Lebanon should be given priority. Maybe we can be able to give someone a hope for the future, in the midst of hopelessness. Here too, it is actually about people, not billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e906	The Prime Minister used a lot of big words in his speech earlier today. She said we had to get ready for tomorrow's Norway. Of course, I fully agree with that. I also fully agree with many of the challenges that the Prime Minister pointed to, and which I believe most people here in the Chamber think it is important to meet in a good way. But when it comes to the political solutions, I note that there is a great deal of distance between the description of reality to the Prime Minister and the political solutions that the government stands for. The time for passivity is over, said the Prime Minister of Norway after the financial crisis – a country where people are at work, a country where we are basically very good and contrasted with most other countries in Europe. The time for passivity is over, says the Prime Minister, while the government is swearing to business neutrality, where they are cutting into industrial policy instruments, where they are turning away from the policy of the north, and where in the last few weeks they have also announced that they will abolish the requirements of the large breeding companies today relating to further processing, research activity and the inclusion of apprentices. Elder care and knowledge, says the Prime Minister, but believes that cutting the wealth tax is the answer. The Prime Minister also spoke about safe jobs – that is good. However, she did not have the ability to explain how to contribute to the increased use of temporary employment or how cut-off in the permitting legislation should contribute to it. Social mobility, the Prime Minister said -- fine, that's very important. But is the answer to the question of increasing the maximum price in kindergartens and removing from the Right's promise of continuous kindergarten admissions, while knowing how important kindergartens and early schooling are for children to succeed, and thus increasing the social mobility of Norwegian society? The Prime Minister said that cutting the property tax is important for Norwegian ownership. All right. But at the same time you have to sell out state companies. The two things don't rhyme with each other. We have to do more in the climate, said the Prime Minister, but she would not respond to whether adopted climate targets are established or what the government will actually do about action. The Prime Minister and the government's representatives have a language that covers the political realities, which when the Minister of Fisheries also makes statements that both me and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen and anyone from the Workers' Party could have held, while the government promotes one controversial proposal after another on transferable quotas, eternal quotas and attacks on the participant law and the Fish Sale Act. From the Workers' Party...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e930	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e933	I am pleased that justice policy has also been an important part of the debate on the subject of terrorism, and I am proud to be chairing a committee that is so active and so debateable. A criticism that has come against the Labour Party, I must nevertheless attend. Some of the Right’s representatives have criticised the Labour Party during the debate for not wanting to participate in a closed process of police reform, without transparency, without public control, except for the parliamentary players. That's a bit of a funny criticism. The Labour Party will be involved in creating the police of the future. We look forward to the proposal for police reform being presented in Stortinget. We've ordered us well. We look forward to discussing it openly in a democratic way, in line with the general parliamentary gulfs. Getting this criticism is extra weird because it comes from representatives of a government party. They administer power and responsibility. Making false statements about the opposition is not leadership. Requiring secret processes is not a leadership. In order to do so, each government must do so, simply to submit proposals to the Grand Duchy, which is debated in openness and which is agreed upon in openness, is not a leadership either. The Labour Party will cooperate. We want to seek agreement when possible, and we want to point out disagreement when necessary. That's our tradition. Now it's the way with the police reform that it's gone out on time. It's unfortunate. But we hope it'll be all right even if it's late. In the discussion of what is central to such a police reform, we are clear that the Labour Party will preserve the civil character of the police. That's some reason why we're so strongly opposed to general armaments. We want a reduction in the number of police districts and service places, but we want to balance it with the need for local knowledge. The working party will see the nudetas in context. There is also some reason why we support the Center Party's proposal on a matter on this, as the Center Party put forward yesterday. We will also focus on the content of the police. It's probably as important as structural changes. That's why we're going in the rush to raise a debate about culture and leadership. We invite a cross-political responsibility for this, by the fact that the debate is already at Stortinget next week. The basis for cross-political cooperation is very much in place. I also hope that the Right is prepared for a good, open and democratic process. I mean, at least it'll be for the best for the country and for the best for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e948	The debate on the throne is, of course, a broad and diverse debate and embraces a number of areas. The direction of a good part of the areas affected in the debate is, in effect, little known about the new government. We still know little about the ability and ability of municipalities and counties to carry out good care for the elderly, a good primary school and a good secondary school. We don't know that until we know more about the municipal economy in front of us. Nor do we fully know how climate ambitions are going to be transformed into practical policies. We know very little about whether competition on the railways is going to lead to better transport. We also know little about some of the business bets the government says they want. The Minister for the Environment said in his speech that there is a distinction between those who want to change and those who don't want it. No, it doesn't. No one here has said they don't want to change. But there might be some people who think that the transition must have a goal and not be the goal in itself. And there might be someone who wants big units to be a tool, but not a goal in themselves. For whether the conversions or the large units become targets in themselves, it is not about reforming but about centralising. One would like, in the opinion of the Centre Party, to have a debate on how to organise future child protection. There are many challenges there, but using it as an argument for a community merger is incorrect and without evidence, as we have also heard in line exchanges earlier today. There is a great deal of inter-municipal cooperation in, for example: child protection. It would also be if this government were to be able to merge municipalities. It will still be. If not, they will get municipalities of such size that not even the Right would prefer to go in for that kind of thing. The reality is that the government only uses words about better child protection and better education to change structures and create larger units. In itself, there is no need to improve child protection or education. The police reform will also not lock the Senterpartiet in today's pattern. We are open to change, but not to strong centralisation. We must have learned a little from the first police reform, which reduced the number of police districts from 54 to 27. Something we must have learned when the evaluation says that it led to more behind the desktop, not more out in the field. I am also pleased that the Labour Party says that they want to support the proposal of the Centre Party to see the emergency seats in the context. I think that's absolutely necessary. I think the one-eyed focus on conversion in itself can contribute to that they are birth helpers for the time being in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e963	Strong Community solutions and small differences are what characterise Norway, and what the Workers Party is concerned about is that we build the country further. It's good that we're a growing country. Growth also poses challenges, and they do not solve the policy alone. That is why we need good partnerships, good framework conditions for business, and an active industrial policy by facilitating the creation of more jobs across the country. As I read the government statement and the throne, we have a government that, on the other hand, weakens the community. They give tax cuts to those who have the most of them. It creates greater differences and provides less well-being. Yes, we get a less fair Norway. In these days, Municipality-Norway is laying its budgets, and there is unrest out there. Many will add up to cut. The most worrying thing is that the government has not come up with measures beyond what appeared in the proposition in ours. If no action is taken, there will be welfare protection. The government focuses on the fact that oil activity will no longer be the engine of our economic growth, and therefore it is very important that we pursue an active, targeted business policy that gives growth across the country, that we support with risk capital, close gaps in the innovation system in early-stage capital for innovative entrepreneurs and a business that dares to bet. Our government has invested heavily in the development of different cluster programs, a bet that has been particularly successful, and that also needs increased bets. Finally, the Government of Stoltenberg reduced the so-called Southern Committee, which gave its position in August 2013. At that time, we were strongly criticized locally by the current government parties for not following the report, which would come in future budgets. Now, a single southern country has given top priority to the so-called Sørlandslaben, and local representatives from there have had more meetings with the government. Here's a clear expectation that the government will deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e974	As the Minister of Defence said here yesterday in the Chamber, NATO is now placing greater emphasis on alliance solidarity and collective defence in order to secure Europe and its neighbourhoods. It is important that NATO be seen as a credible defence alliance with sufficient military capabilities, and here all the Member States must contribute more. I am therefore pleased that the government is now saying that they will strengthen the operational capability of the defence. The size must also follow the government's ambition and contribute to ensuring adequate resources for our own defence. The importance that we have a credible defence, with satisfactory deterrent capacity and high operational capability, with a better balance between breadth and depth in the structure and shorter response time adapted to the threat picture has been highlighted by many in this persuasion debate, and I interpret it there that there is a broad political consensus on this. The Minister of Defence's recent request for new professional military advice is important in this context. For the first time in history, the Minister of Defence has published the investigative mission to the Chief of Defence, describing why new advice from the Defence to the Government is needed. With reference to, inter alia: the deteriorating security policy situation is accelerating the work of the Council of State Eriksen Soreide on a new long-term defence plan. I would like to commend the Minister of Defence for introducing a culture of transparency in and about defence. Unlike in the past, when political leadership claimed that the ability to defend was high, there is now a recognition that today's preparedness is not satisfactory. Transparency about this is fundamental in order to ensure a broad consensus on the need for both innovation and increased frameworks for defence in the coming years. I also record that the new policy line has been very well received. There are more and more people who think it is necessary and right to think about the defence. Finally, in the tense security policy picture and although Norway has suspended part of bilateral military cooperation with Russia, it is undoubtedly very important that cooperation on border guards, coastguards and search and rescue be continued with other forms of trust building and people-to-people cooperation in the north. In his speech at Stortingen's opening last week, the Grand President was committed to strengthening the role of the interparliamentary bodies in this context, and I also noticed that a group of Russian parliamentarians will be invited to the Nordic Council's session in Stockholm at the end of October. These are very positive measures, and I want to pay tribute to the fact that in this way you are actively working to keep as many channels as possible open to encounter conflicts through dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e987	It was the representative Heggelund who, in a comment on my first post, claimed that the big difference between the right and left side of Norwegian policy is that the right side takes responsibility for everyone and the big whole, while we do not. I must say that with all due respect that is a crazy statement and a very wrong analysis, to say it a little cautiously. The big difference – this is what this debate has shown, and we also heard it clearly in the Prime Minister’s speeches here – is going between the power of the people and market governance. What has happened since the election? The government has begun to put pressure on the agricultural population and on agricultural policy, with the consequences it has for too many parts of Norway. That's the one. The second thing they do is they go to work, as we've got it described. And I say, because I don't think I got to say it enough because of the time, that I don't understand that business and NHO themselves are very afraid of that development, because it will open up to those unprofessional in a completely different way than what we see today. I do not understand that they do not see that danger, and I do not understand that the government does not. Then I would like to comment on what the Prime Minister said with great emphasis, that it would create more diversity to reduce the state's ownership in Norway. I do not understand that reasoning, for example. Kongsberg Industries should be left to private interests, mainly foreign ones, because that is what it was about. Why do you do that all over the world? It has to be just from an ideological point of view that the state should be reduced, and no one else. Finally, I would like to say that I have listened with great interest to the representatives of the Progress Party in this debate, now, therefore, as representatives of a Norwegian Government. And I have to say – and it sounds kind of funny, but it's not funny – that they sound like right-wing people. Not only do they sound like that, but they're obviously that. Maybe they've always been. What's good about it is that we let go of these endless, populist statements from this pulpit that the party has been in for ten years. The analyses they have presented to the Norwegian community have simply collapsed. It's a mental pause for me, and I think for the whole Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1000	– Here is Anne Enger Lahnstein and says that we want to weaken professional rights. It's in the economic guidelines, Prime Minister. - It's wrong, it doesn't matter. This was the well-known exchange of lines between the then Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland and the former Head of the Central Party Anne Enger Lahnstein when the party leaders met for the final EU debate in the NRK Television three days before the EU vote on 28 November 1994. We didn't join. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, Many are grateful. Now we have an EU in crisis, an EU that has a systemic flaw because it is an economic union – not a political union. ILO Chief Guy Ryder in Geneva is deeply concerned. He represents the oldest United Nations organization, from 1919, and points out the importance of working life to a secure society. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway is directly affected by the four freedoms of market forces, including: free movement of labour. More and more professionals in the labour market are experiencing increasing uncertainty and poorer pay and employment conditions. Differences are increasing. It's called Difference Norway is on the move. It's on the move at the expense of the Center Party's Society Norway. This will be an important social debate – a social struggle, to use a mild variant of Kolberg’s language usage. The government wants more temporary employment in the world of work. More temporary employment is not the good answer. The centre party is pleased with the massive resistance to government proposals, but the most unsafe and worst developments in working life take place through the large scale and large growth of the number of people employed by manning companies. It was the so-called Blaalid Committee in NOU 1998:15 on employment services and labour hiring/renting, which presented proposals for private temporary employment agencies, which were actually recruitment companies. The LO was represented in the sample and gave a clear signal to open up to private staff companies – and therefore for temporary employment. Reference was made to the EU competition rules, which established what the EEA Agreement requires. The action plan against social dumping in the labour market is important. It is important to call on the Working Environment Act to protect permanent employment. However, it is also important to have a debate that it is the EEA Agreement that now decides – that we have lost the overall national, popular control of the development of labour in the temperate Norwegian society. It should be a cross-section of the mind of the representative Kolberg and all other EEA members.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1013	Several speakers have mentioned the report by the New Climate Economy during this debate. It is an important report, which we in the Committee on Energy and the Environment got a little insight into during our journey to the United States now in September, important because the conclusion was that it is possible to reconcile economic growth with lower greenhouse gas emissions. The two parts can actually be closely linked. For the climate challenge, the Golden Rule applies to the Right and government is based on its policy: the globe we leave to our children should be at least as good as the one we took over. This is part of the generation perspective and requires long-term solutions. So the right is not just behind the climate agreement; we want to strengthen it together with government partners The Progress Party and our friends in the Christian People's Party and the Left. What does the report say about future solutions? First of all, we have to make the right moves and investments, especially in our big cities. Good and smart urban land policies combined with a stronger focus on collective solutions and streamlining are necessary to build the zero-emission society of the future. Indeed, in cities most of the growth will come, and most of the greenhouse gas emissions will happen, according to the report. Therefore, it is good that the government implements the investment promise of the times on collective solutions in and around the big cities. Only the railway got 600 million. kr in increase in 2014 compared to the red-green proposal. It is also important that the government will phase out fossil oil firing as a baseload by 2018 for all state buildings, and for households by 2020. The revised national budget provided a timetable for increasing the yield of the Climate Technology Fund by increasing the appropriations by nearly 13 billion. kr in addition to the agreement in the climate agreement until 2017. When we know that a green tax commission was set up in June, that investment in the State pension fund abroad should increase the framework of the environmental investment mandates, that Norway contributes 200 million. kr to the Green Climate Fund, and the fact that a new mechanism is now being put in place to trigger ENØK investment in private homes, it becomes strange to hear the complaints from the opposition in this debate that nothing is happening. The Prime Minister made a very good speech pointing out the direction Norway has to go in order to join the green shift that is now taking place. Winners will be the ones who made changes in time and focus on innovation and change. The Prime Minister's speech was good, very good, and together with the contribution from the Minister for Climate and Environment, it shows that we have a government with the power of action and the will to take the perhaps greatest challenge of this generation seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1029	Some of the rhetoric of the opposition during this debate has reminded me a little bit of a scene from the film «Life of Brian», the Monty Python film that they complained about was so funny that it was banned in Norway. The scene is where the opposition to the Romans plans rebellion, and the leader raises them up and asks rhetorically, what have the Romans ever done for us? One of the audience then says the aqueducts, and the opposition leader has to give him right in it. Several voices in and mention that the Romans have brought them infrastructure, roads, health, education and wine – it is absolutely true, I saw through this on YouTube yesterday – law and order, and in addition to this brought them peace, nothing less. Well, besides that, the leader says, what have the Romans ever done for us? It's like hearing the opposition in Stortinget: What has this government done for Norway? Well, the Minister for Transport has increased investment in infrastructure and roads, reinforced development, reduced toll projects and invested in public transport. The Minister of Health provides the basis for patients’ health services, where the quality and freedom of choice of patients are more important than the systems. Too many people wait unnecessarily long in a health queue and go ill rather than work. As a result, the government is using the free capacity of private and non-profit institutions, so that more people are treated more quickly. It is not an ideological duty to stand in line with illness. The Minister of Education has started a historic promise for the continuing training of teachers, a commitment to quality and school that I now hear from the Workers' Party calling for as a broad educational settlement. It's not a settlement when they're just going to rely on our solutions. On the slightly more absurd side, with which Monty Python was not completely unknown, the Minister of Justice has announced that the 2005 penal code will come into force in the next year, as the red-greens saw in 2022, due to the problems of ICT in the police. This contributes to more law and order. In addition, the Minister of Defence has asked for a professional-military council on the basis of the future structure and composition of the defence, which is important for ensuring peace and freedom in the long term. So this government delivers on infrastructure, health, education, safety, law and order. Yes, even wine has got people through the tax-free quota – not a big deal for the government, but if the opposition will spend a lot of time talking about it, so much for me. I suspect that Monty Python's caricatured opposition primarily protested against the Romans – what to call it – municipal council mergers, but not against the public services as such. But then again, it is not the Roman government council Jan Tore Sanner sitting and drawing at his office, but an intrusive community reform that ensures the citizens good public services for the future. All of these were known priorities before the elections last year. This gave the government and the two cooperation parties a historically strong uprising in the population. The desire for a new policy has never been expressed more strongly. So when the opposition asks what the government has done for Norway, the answer is: we have begun to deliver on the policy the voters would actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1044	It was strange to hear the Prime Minister's argument for the government's unsocial and huge tax cuts for those who have the most. It was also strange to hear the same argument regarding the weakening of the labour environment law for workers and, not least, free choice of treatment, which implies large-scale privatisation and red tape of health services. So what was the argument? Well, the government would do this to fight Difference Norway: Norway's richest will get several million dollars in tax cuts to combat differences. Workers’ rights must be weakened in order to combat differences. Health needs to be more privatised to combat differences. The right-wing Party policy is the same as before: more to those with the most, more power to market and privatisation of welfare. How the Prime Minister can claim that it can lead to reduced differences and equal opportunities is completely incomprehensible. No, it would have been desirable, not least for the voters, that the government parties with the prime minister had told them what the consequences of government policy. The consequences are the very opposite of what the Prime Minister said in the debate here today. It is not difficult to understand that the Right has learned rhetoric from its colleagues in other countries. Fortunately, it does little to help in the longer term. The consequences of their policies will then be made visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1053	It would have been tempting to go into the previous speaker's many points to explain the context, but I think I have to grab a couple of other posts that have come earlier. Several representatives from the red-green parties have criticised the government's climate policy, not least the representatives Pedersen, Eidsvoll Holmås and Arnstad – despite the fact that we are now discussing a throne speech that has never prioritised this theme higher than just the centenary of the year. The representatives feel that it is unclear which concrete measures the government will implement in climate policy. Well, let me remind you what we're already doing well when it comes to strengthening the climate agreement. We're talking about billions of promises of collective development in the big cities of Norway. We are talking about a much stronger bet on local trains, among other things. The East. We're talking about faster phase-out of fossil oil firing in state-owned barley. We are talking about a larger framework for investments in renewable energy under State pension funds abroad. We're talking about $12.5 billion of fresh food added to the Enova Climate Technology Fund. We're talking about the creation of a green tax commission. We are talking about better depreciation rules for wind power. And all this is before we put forward our state budget, which will come tomorrow. As Trine Skei Grande confirmed yesterday: there has been a shift in climate policy with a new government. But when it's still hard to achieve the goals set in the climate agreement, it's because of the starting point we inherited from the red-green government. Let me remind you that the red-greens produced two climate messages. Both were slaughtered, not only by the opposition at that time, but also by an overall environmental movement, because they were too little concrete and too little ambitious. It was the then opposition that had to draw the red-green government in the right direction and ensure that concrete and ambitious measures were implemented. We've been drivers all the way. Now we show that in government we lead in the green shift. That's what a conservative government is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1064	First just a little line to Heidi Nordby Lunde, which refers to my favorite film «Life of Brian». I just remind you that in the memoir of «What have the Romans do for us?» there was no one who said «yes, massive billions of taxes to the richest». It wasn't on the list, just for inspiration in the future. My concern was an attempt at an answer that the Prime Minister had to Jonas Gahr Støre earlier today. There she said that the Workers' Party had shown resistance to more stringent admission requirements for teacher training. Then I don't think the Prime Minister has looked up long enough from his iPad to get the point. My point was not that the Workers' Party was against stricter character requirements. My point was that the Right is against stricter character requirements. I quote from the Right Program. They will. ‘require the grade 4 or better in Norwegian, math and English for admission to teacher training’. Well, the 4th in Norwegian has been abandoned. That's right in the strategy. The requirement for 4 in English has been left. That's right in the strategy. But worst of all, the requirement for 4 in mathematics has also been abandoned, because the strategy says that those with less than 4 still have to be able to go to teacher training, but they have to go on a compulsory course. Then you haven't introduced the requirement of 4 in mathematics, you've said that those who have less than 4 can still go there, but with an advance. It is identical to what the Workers' Party has formulated in its programme for the period 2013-2017. It's making a character requirement that it's not. In politics, you paint a little and cover things, but this is about the applicants’ information about what to apply for. Applicants with 2 today know that they can't come in because the requirement is 3. So now the prime minister says the requirement is 4 when it's actually not 4. It is a rather serious disinformation, not only to the Stortinget, but not least to those who are actually going to apply for a teacher's education. It goes on to say in the same point from the Right Programme that: ‘all teachers, from the first stage, must have depression in the basic subjects in which they teach’. This is therefore part of the programme for 2013-2017. Then it turns out that this will not be implemented in the period 2013–2017. It shall not be introduced the year after that or the year after that again, to the 2021 elections and not to the 2025 elections. But until the 2029 elections, that requirement must be in place. It is the power of action of this government. This gives the policy enormous opportunities. We want a four-field highway from Trondheim to Oslo, not until 2040, but we need to jam me. If you're going to run politics in such a way that yes, you have an executive, you have an action force, because you're going to introduce something in 20 or 40 years, it's completely impossible to prioritize and discuss politics. What is serious, and what is sin, is that the Right does not answer the most important challenge, and that is not the teacher's knowledge, but the teacher's time. In terms of support functions, bureaucracy, enough teachers, better early efforts, etc., right zero answers, but there we have good answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1089	It was representative Kolberg's posts that made me draw. There were two things – one on agricultural policy and the other on state ownership. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, it is almost incredible that one has been able to sit in government for eight years without recording actual developments taking place around the country. We have had an agricultural policy that has been completely flawed, which has failed on all targets. Then you start attacking the government that's sitting there because you're actually taking progress and wanting to create development and opportunities for those who want to bet. I think that's quite special. In fact, after eight years of red-green, you had the goal of increasing production, it didn't happen. There are 35 000–40,000 abandoned use, which is a ghastly example of poor rural policies and poor agricultural policies throughout the country. If there's something you need for any industry in the country, it's giving opportunities to those who want to bet. Part-time use is fine for those who are right for it, but an industry that says no to those who really want to bet professionally has difficulty getting on the offensive. That's what we want to do. It's going to be noticed all over the country, hopefully, by seeing that it offers opportunities to develop agriculture on a good platform. So that's the last thing: state ownership. The state is going to be a big owner in Norway in the foreseeable future. But we need diversity, we need the private initiative to secure the innovation needed for a competitive business. Therefore, discrimination against the diverse private, locally based Norwegian ownership that develops jobs across the country must be eliminated. This is ideology. Of course, it's ideology, just as it is ideology for the Workers' Party that everything should be just like it was when they decided. And it's remarkable to see Cermaq. If we look at the basis of the sale there, former Minister of Industry Giske has made it very clear that he stopped a Norwegian solution last year. He has pointed out that the only thing that matters is a high price on the sale. Whether it is foreign or Norwegian or locally based ownership, there is no room for that sale. Of course, it is ideology for the bourgeois government that we should stimulate the locally thought-out ownership around the country, which is absolutely central to developing value creation and local well-being around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1104	The representative of Hadia Tajik has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1107	I'll be very brief. The representative Nordby Lunde made a visit to the new penal code, and I'd like to answer that. It was said that the red-green ambition was that the promises would come into effect in 2022. That's wrong. The red-green ambition was that she should come into force as soon as possible. Already, under the previous government, the work of bringing criminal law out of the overall ICT package in the Directorate of Police, so that it can come into force as soon as possible. And that's what the Minister of Justice is doing. So I'm glad that in this area we see that the new government will build on the previous government's work. It's important to get criminal law in place. The government has our support when it does that kind of thing. I just wish that one didn't make so much political play out of the things we have a common ownership of. There is no recipe for good solutions, nor does it correspond to the cooperation that the Prime Minister himself invited into last year's debate on the throne.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1116	To the representative Nordby Lunde: I’m not going to talk about Monty Python, but it was a program on Norwegian radio for a while that was a success, called, ‘Have you heard it before?’ It was a rehearsal of good butchers. And we've heard it before some of today, from the government parties, about the 2005–2013 glan period. It has come to honour and dignity again as an argument for everything and for everything in politics. I'm saying that I'd like to talk about that period anytime and anywhere, because I'm proud of it, but it's like the challenges have to lie ahead and not backwards. I think the Prime Minister suggested a poor description of the country she took responsibility for in 2013 when she made her contribution. The reality is that never had a government taken over an economy in better condition. There were 350,000 new jobs created, several thousand new businesses created, unemployment was low, the decline in Norwegian school had turned to progress. Delegations from all over the world came to Norway to study how we solved modern societal challenges — in school, in family policy, in business, in innovation and in a wide range of areas. This government, when it joined, used the honorary orders of society as an argument for what it wanted to achieve: small differences, trust and cooperation. But this government is traveling elsewhere to pick up its examples, sending out delegations to find the recipe for the biggest grips, and the most important thing is that we are now embarking on a policy of big tax cuts. So this is the main choice in priority government is doing. It's immature, it increases the differences. The emergence of differences within schools and other parts of society is not a good argument for introducing large differences due to distribution. The OECD, the IMF – not exactly social democratic thinking – warns against a policy in that direction. Norway chooses this, after Sweden has pursued that policy for eight years, until Fredrik Reinfeldt said it was the end of it. Then Sweden was taxed on Norway. We're going to privatize in school. We're going to Sweden and the United Kingdom to get examples of rail privatisation, which has not gone well. We're going to red tape in health, and we're going to implement changes in the work environment law that employees' organisations say will lead to more brutalisation. The Honorary Orders must then be replaced by others. We're on the way to a society with increased differences, centralization, a working life that gets less serious, frees more of the conditions we should actively combat, and we're going to get signs of two-part school and health care. It's another Norway. We'll see when the budget comes tomorrow. We come, as I said in my post, from the Labour Party side to mark support where we believe it takes Norway in the right direction, but highlight quite clear resistance, clear resistance, where we believe it takes Norway in the wrong direction, towards descriptions that are not worthy of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1129	I notice that the representative Trond Giske is accusing the government of having too low ambitions for implementation in areas that the red-green government never had ambitions to do anything about. So we've presented a teacher's vow that helps all students throughout Norway to have the opportunity to meet a competent teacher, a teacher who has professional depression in the most important core subjects. Then we have said that it is a problem that very many municipalities have many teachers who teach in the field without having professional immersion, and it will take some time – without going too far on those students who go to school – to increase that competence in the future. We've made a plan to lift all students in Norway, for how we're going to raise the entire School-Norway in the future. And if there was one thing that was documented in the previous eight years – not because of the red-green government, but because of the different ambitions of the local politicians – it was that there had been great differences in School Norway, depending on whether you had a right-wing, good, ambitious local politician or if you had someone who was less ambitious, often from other parties, and who wasn't involved in school. Then you got a challenge. We all promise. We believe that all children in Norway deserve to meet a school where teachers have good competence, and the teachers who are in school will have the opportunity to teach the subjects they are actually good at, and to learn the subjects they have to teach, but on which they are not so good, even better for the future. So to the misery description, no, it wasn't a misdemeanor description, but it was a reality description of the transition challenges we're facing. If there is something that has struck me in this debate, it is that large sections of the opposition have not seen that we are facing migration challenges. They say they're recording what we're saying, for example. that the growth power of the oil industry is going to be less, but have we heard their recipe for the renewal of the Norwegian economy, the new jobs, how we're going to work in the future? No! No! They haven't said a word about it. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre did not mention a word about how we are going to bring about the dynamism of the Norwegian economy that is creating the new jobs in the future. In general, the Workers' Party's message in this debate has been to oppose the changes that contribute to better transitions and to speeding up the new jobs. I think it's incredibly important that we be honest about challenges. There is a lot of great in Norwegian society – I never deny it when I make posts – but it is also important, because we are going to take care of this country for the generations to come, that we dare to be honest that there are some challenges ahead of us, and that we have come into it late. When you look at what the OECD recommends, what other countries recommend, to have strategies against inequality, that's one thing they say is the most important thing -- to create the good, equivalent school system. The government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1140	There was an article by the representative Eidem Løvaas from the Right that made me redraw, and it has been inserted into the sequence of a series of articles from the Right where one also resorts to the untruths about what others think, in a slightly stylish way. I would ask the Right to stop saying things that are not true, and what is not true is that SV should have accepted proposals for lower kindergarten rates for the poorest. Everyone who has heard what I have said in this debate and in debates in the media has got what our message has been: Yes to lower kindergarten rates for the poorest, but no to increase the prices for everyone else, because it not only undermines the goal of making kindergarten more accessible to everyone, but will also affect many poor families, well illustrated by the Class Battle lookup today. When in addition, according to a leak that has just come out at the evening post.no, it is such that the poorest will get more expensive kindergarten before they get cheaper, I would go very quietly in the doors if I was the Right-Representative and would talk about redistribution from this pulpit. We have had some useful clarifications about the asylum-seekers in this debate. Both the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister have been aware that the legislation they have sent out at the hearing is not good enough and has given the hearing bodies the right to have civil parties come up with legislation that will tighten up instead of giving more children the opportunity to stay in Norway. I appreciate that the Prime Minister stressed that there is something the government wants to do about, but at the same time it is clear that it will take time. Therefore, I am disappointed that it now appears that the support for SV's proposal on stoppages in the broadcasts is so modest here in the hall. The last time a large agreement was reached on asylum children, in 2007, it was also agreed that there was a need to put matters at risk, so that the children actually had to deal with their cases in accordance with new legislation. I believe that the Christian People's Party and the Left – even if we share the commitment in this matter – makes a strategic bomb if they don't demand it now, and does not support our proposal on it. And I'm disappointed that the Workers' Party, which has such a strong commitment to innovation in other matters, is not even willing to participate in giving these children a chance to try their cases in accordance with new legislation. The treatment of asylum-seekers is just one thing where there could really be a need for a new orientation on the part of the Workers' Party. That, I think, had been met with great joy among many left-wing people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1149	I have to say there have been two interesting days of debate in Stortinget. I must say that there has also been a strange debate. It really turned out when our good representative Martin Kolberg went to the pulpit. Then you always have to listen – and I did. The representative of Kolberg asked where it was from the FrP. I can promise the representative he's well visible. That representative is always going to be well visible. But what has become the problem of the representative of Kolberg is that now the representative of the Progress Party is also getting an impact on its policy – it is actually set out in the Government Declaration, together with what one has got along with the Right Party. The big difference you're going to notice in the years that are coming is just that impact. I understand the despair of Martin Kolberg. It almost shines out of his representative's despair of having to sit for so long without feeling that he is the one who has his hand on the wheel. Because it's actually not. We've got a shift in politics, and it's a necessary shift. We have received a government that will bring about the major reforms, reforms that are needed to get more money back from taxpayers to the state to get services back. We have been replaced by a government that joined in 2005 and set out a year ago, which led to a policy that made the gap between productivity growth in Norway and real wage growth so markedly increase that it greatly weakened our competitiveness towards the rest of the world. It is precisely these things that need to be addressed so that Norwegian jobs will be secured in the future. We haven't been able to put in place the police force that's going on across the country in recent years. I come from a district where we have approx. one policeman per thousand, despite the fact that the target is two per thousand. In fact, it is this government's aim to ensure that we have a police reform in place so that we get more operational police force out to the citizens, where the need is, and fewer – perhaps – who are going to sit and do office work. We have also announced that there will be a number of changes and a number of reforms. One should come from relatively far on the left when it's a problem that we have to get a free user choice. Citizens – think about it – should be allowed to choose who to visit in the healthcare system. If you've listened to your husband, that must be a problem! No, it just needs to be that we have more freedom of choice in place so that we can also control our own health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1163	I must say about this debate that we may feel that it bears a little bit of the impression that we are all a little excited about what tomorrow will bring. I think there's a point in itself that it's good that this hall is excited about what tomorrow will bring, because it's a thrill we haven't really felt for a long time, because the job that's to be done from tomorrow until Christmas had no effect before on the development of Norway. Now, in fact, the tension triggered by the government's proposal tomorrow is the beginning of a process in which the Storting should actually be involved and influence. I think everyone who's heard posts from the Left's representatives these two days knows what we're going to prioritize in such a work. We are very pleased that all parties in general have had a completely different tone and presence in climate and environmental policy than they have had in very many years. While we felt for many years that we were all alone talking about this, we now feel that it has become much wider. I think that's positive. Across all the party boundaries and despite all the challenges, it is now clear that people have understood it. The second thing that will be important to us is knowledge policy and the fight against poverty. Then I hope no one has taken any procuracy when it comes to the things we have been promised to come into an agreement. Then I am glad that SV promoted its proposal on asylum children. That's almost exactly what Left used to promote when SV was in government, and that SV always voted against – with great zeal and enthusiasm. What is good about SV promoting this is that we have received two clear answers, both from the Minister of Justice and from the Prime Minister, with whom we will continue to work. When Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås held his flaming speeches against the Left's proposal on this when they sat in government, he said that «the government is working to put in place a permanent regime for asylum children, but as long as we do not agree on a new government policy, we therefore vote against the proposal presented by the Left here today». The left is also going to vote against the proposal, but that is because we need a little more time to get to the goal, and we have got insurance from the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister, whom I assume they are actually standing by. So then I think SV should give us a chance to get to the goal of what we were going to do. It's not like they've given us a simpler negotiating party than what they're doing, so I think they're going to have a tolerance for at least getting the chance to try to get to the point in this area. But I'm glad that SV promoted the proposal, because that led to some important clarifications in the hall here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1178	Just a few brief comments on the tame of the debate. The speakers of the Central Party have used the debate of the throne to warn against what we fear can become a centralization of the times if one sees the various reforms that the government wants to initiate, in the context. It concerns municipalities, the police, emergency services for others, and local hospitals, in the case of colleges and universities. No one opposes a focus on public sector innovation and transformation, but the objective must not be structural change in its own seas. It must be that one performs the tasks in the best possible way. I do not think it has been demonstrated in this debate that changing structures within themselves will contribute to better problem-solving. So I noticed that the representatives of Astrup and Milde, among other things, and several of the representatives of the Right and Advance Party, are a little bit offended that we say that we are waiting in a number of areas. But they probably have to figure out that we're saying that when it comes to the question of how old age care is going to be in the years to come, it's not a government test project with elderly care that's going to decide that, but it's the municipality economy of Norwegian municipalities that's going to matter on how to carry out that task in the future. The same applies to primary education, as is the possibility for the counties to pursue secondary education. We are also waiting for the climate, and we must also be allowed to be. I agree with Hadia Tajik that it is good that this government will build on the red-green government, and I don't think you should pretend it doesn't. You have to ask yourself, for example. railway investment, if it was the 4.3 billion. kr as the red-green government suggested in the increase from one year to another, which means something, or if it was the 600 million. kr as the blue-blue government hung on top. It is good that the blue-blue government has built on the 30 pst. the increase in the railway budget from one year to another proposed by the red-green government. But you can admit that someone did. It is good that the government says it will follow up what the red-green government has adopted in the National Transport Plan, with a framework of over 26 billion. kr for commercial and collective activities in large cities. That's good. But I think it would have been nice if someone stopped pretending that it's not what an actually based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1191	Let me first, because this is probably my last post, thank you for a good debate so far. I have to say that when I hear some of the workers’ party representatives’ posts – the representative Gahr Støre, the representative of Kolberg – I think there might be a somewhat demagogic description of Norway under a new government. I think it is interesting with this crusade against tax relief from a party that swears to the rule of action. The rule of action not only says something about how much money we are going to spend, but also what we are going to spend the money on. Let me remind you that it's knowledge, it's infrastructure, and it's growth-promoting tax relief. So there was no right-wing suggestion, which was suggested by Jens Stoltenberg. I notice that the only thing we now know about the Labour Party's tax policy is that the taxes are going up, we just don't know who's going to pay. So things have changed since 2001 -- that's pretty obvious. That we should have a strong centralisation, as mentioned by, among other things. The representative Gahr Støre, and also the representative Arnstad, while, therefore, this government is in the leadership seat of just a community reform to contribute to increased local self-government, falls on its own unreasonableness. That we're going to get a two-part school and a two-part health care system, as the representative Gahr Støre says, I think is also unreasonable, it was under the red-green we had a two-part health care system, based on the fact that those who had good advice could buy for shorter queues, while those who had bad advice had to be in the same line as everyone else. This government is working for everyone to get shorter queues, not just those who can pay off the queue. This government is committed to raising the quality of public school, where most students go. The way it creates a two-part school, I don't know, but I think maybe the Workers' Party could spend a little more time talking about the students who go to the most school, that's the public school, and a little less time talking about the few percentages who choose something else and use their right to choose another option, whether they're stone schools, Christian gymnasiums or other alternatives. Then I agree with the representative Arnstad that the previous government also did something good, but it does not sound like you think this government is doing something good, and I completely disagree with that. I believe on the contrary that this government is going to break in to build the country for the future, and I hope that the other parties in the Storting will also be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1207	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1210	Just a brief comment on the Prime Minister's somewhat approximate relationship with the truth. It was the red-green government that introduced skills requirements for new teachers. That's what makes the Prime Minister now able to promise that all teachers will have these qualifications just before their 70th birthday. We raised the state grant for further training for teachers from 30 million. kr, as it was when Clamet and Right crashed, to 310 million. NOK, as it was when we left – about a tidal period. That right now continues with support from us, that's good. We were demanding 3 in math and Norwegian all the time while we were running. We said we would have a mandatory advance rate for math and Norwegian. Now the right 3 keeps and introduces the mandatory advance rate, just for math, maybe they'll come after and do it for Norwegian as well. The main point is this: we believe that the challenges for the teachers are not lack of knowledge, as the Right speaks down the teaching profession, we believe that the main point is lack of time and resources to see each individual student, follow up on each one, provide everyone with an adapted education. Here, there is a deep distinction between the Right Party and the Labour Party in school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1215	It's always exciting with a drumming debate when there's a new government in place. It's not that often it happens. I hope it'll be long until the next time. I think the debate has been good, it has been about the government's message of renewing, improving and simplifying – it has been a review theme. Some are concerned about this renewal, simplification and improvement, while others – often from government parties and other friendly parties – seem to be all right. For example, Hadia Tajik says that she wants the police reform on the table now, and invites to constructive debate on the police reform here in the house, but does not want to participate in anything in the closed room. No, it's okay, we've felt that a lot has been going on in closed rooms for eight years, so we've invited a broad cooperation on an important reform. Marit Arnstad, on the other hand, believes that there is little reason to hurry with the changeover and is concerned about centralisation as a result, among other things. by a police reform. I just want to remind you that it was actually Marit Arnstad's own government that started working on a police reform. And the proposal that was presented, which is now under discussion, went quite far on the question of centralisation. So I think it's a good idea to spend some time on this, and I think it's important at the same time that we can now deliver a police reform that will give us greater security for the citizens, where we get quick response time, and where we get operating centres that actually work and are operational, and that respond to enquiries. Local knowledge and proximity are, of course, also important elements of police reform. Jonas Gahr Støre is concerned that there may be another Norway, there may be great differences, we may get a two-part society, etc. The problem and the challenge is, I think, that the Labour Party has said very little about what they want, what changes they want. Because I have the feeling that everything that was delivered by the red-green government is so good that it should be continued. That's not what the voters wanted last year. The voters said very clearly that they wanted a shift, they wanted changes, they wanted changes, they wanted a government that actually led a different policy than the one that had been sitting for eight years, and that was perhaps a little tired. When the government then presents a new policy, it is because we want to follow up on what we went to elections, because we want to implement the government platform and respect the cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. We want to simplify, renew and improve. That's what we went to election, that's what we used to pick, and that's what the voters wanted. So I think it must be a good starting point the day before the budget is presented. We are now faced with a new policy in many areas – a policy that many have asked for and that many look forward to implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1230	It's a special two days we've been through. For my part, it has been very clear that the blue-blues have got a marshmallow that they have to say a few laps enough times each. On a character scale, if they've done it, I'm going to throw them six dice. They've really managed to say 'action force' many, many times. Since Flying Circus and Monty Python were up, it's perhaps a good thing to say a few words about it, because this is a group that spent a lot of time trying to beat the conservative forces of society. So it's kind of interesting that a conservative representative uses it for income. In episode 12 of the Flying Circus series, there is a conservative who stands talking and talking and talking, and when he gets the question of what in the world is what you stand for and talk so forcefully for, he says: «Well... speaking as the Conservative candidate I just drone on and on and on and on without letting anyone else get a word in edgeways, until I start foaming at the mouth and falling over backwards.» And then he collapses and begins to get foam out of his mouth. It's kind of Monty Python's image of the conservatives. It's an allusion, this. What's striking about this debate is that we see a government that's now starting its big project, which I see as a class struggle. The aim is to make working life more flexible and to make it easier for people to work on a temporary basis. One throws record asylum children out of the country. The capital is to be collected on fewer hands, and lately we've seen that especially those with children, single and illegitimate will get the harder. For example, are you. a kindergarten teacher and has about NOK 420,000 in salary and has children alone, you will lose several thousand dollars on having children in kindergarten. That is the reality of this. What's interesting is that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party support this project, that they've really chosen a side with the conservative forces that want to fight for even more money for those who have a lot of money already, and that those who have a lot more in society will get the harder. That is the reality. And when there's tension to tomorrow: if I were to come with a prophecy, the great excitement is for the Christian People's Party and the Left which cuts hard on those who really don't need it in society today, that's the Christian People's Party and the Left shall save. This is the challenge of the Christian People's Party and the Left before tomorrow, no one else. It seemed to me on behalf of all those who are going through this, is very, very sad, and I think it is shameful that the Christian People's Party and the Left have chosen that side.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1248	Massive tax reliefs were probably not one of the demands of the fictitious opposition in the Life of Brian, but I can promise the representative Trond Giske that tax resistance was probably one of the reasons why the Roman Empire fell in its time, as the provinces did not want to participate in the collection there. But there is no resistance in this hall to tax. I'm one of those people who actually want more people to pay their taxes with joy. But taxes and taxes, which I have been through before, must be designed to finance the core tasks of the country, but not to hinder sustainable economic growth, which will also finance our well-being for the future. This well-known Minister of Economic Affairs, Trond Giske, who, together with the then LO leader, Roar Flåthen, believed that the property tax could be an obstacle to Norwegian ownership and employment. The only thing we know about the Labour Party's tax policy now is – as the representative Astrup had in mind – that the taxes should be raised, and I am happy to see them go to the elections to reintroduce the inheritance tax and cancel the property tax when that time comes. The representative Trond Giske was also one of those who consistently presented the Norwegian economy as ‘bottom-solid’ during the two-day treaty debate last year in the Stortinge – a history that came in spite of the fact that many signs in time showed the opposite, and that their own perspective statement showed that the social democratic welfare state is not economically sustainable in the long term. In addition, we know that the red-green government was responsible for a stronger two-part division of the Norwegian economy where we became more dependent on the oil than ever. Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel in Nordea said that Norway has never had such a sharp deterioration in competitiveness as in the years since 2005, and in Norway the wages are close to 70 pst. above the average i – not China, but OECD. Although Norwegian employment is still high, we are close to the bottom of the OECD as measured by the number of hours worked per person in pre-age employment. And there were actually 15,000 more poor children in Norway than it was when the red-greens took over in 2005. All of these challenges we saw, and a lot of that, the government is doing something about it. The main priorities in transport, quality in school — which also works smoothly — freedom of choice in healthcare and safe communities were known when voters went to elections last year. In other words, a lot has to be done, and a lot is on the way. So then I'm going to finish by filling my quota and saying "action force, action force, action force for new ideas and better solutions".
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1265	It's been interesting to listen to the pingpong game that's been going on, at least in the last hour, about how the story should be described or not. I guess there's someone in need of a defense, and someone needs an attack. That's the way it's done in the persuasion debates. What I think is important is what we ourselves have set ourselves before doing for the future. We're going into a budget tomorrow. We intend to mark that budget, and I can reassure the SV's representative that we have many ambitions in addition to possibly reversing some of the government's proposals. We have ambitions for the school sector, for the climate sector and in transport. We have ambitions to raise child poverty, in the sense that we get to do something about it, and not just talk about it. That is why I am also proud of what we did in the previous round of the budget: we have increased one-off support, we have strengthened child protection and family protection, and we are now, hopefully, also getting lower child care prices for those who can afford the worst. And then we'll talk about how it's going to be done – I can assure you that. The fact that the climate has been such an important part of this debate is unmistakably positive. There I join Trine Skei Grande's posts completely. In the case of asylum children, in fact, it is the four parties Right, Christian People's Party, Left and Advance Party that have been given a one-time solution for some asylum children, which makes them stay, while they with a red-green regime had been thrown out, to refer to how SV does it. And it's the same four parties that are now going to sit down to find a solution for the asylum-children who have been in the country for a long time. I noticed the Prime Minister's words that 'we're working on a bomb' to get it done. Unlike SV, which of course wants to work towards the government, we intend to work with the government to find a solution that gives a changed policy, and not just talk about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1276	That's one part of the debate I sometimes see being extremely simplified and a little daunting from the Great Britain's pulpit. That's the tax debate we have, where it seems like someone thinks that any tax will be a great pleasure to society, and any krone that comes in will just bring welfare, while on the other hand it sounds like just getting tax relief, all the money will go to great pleasure that's going to bring everything in society forward. It's not like that. Our tax and tax system is a balance where we have to use it to achieve the changes we want in a society. Because some of us believe that the market mechanisms work, they work towards us too. Some of the problem with the level of tax you're discussing here is that it's just about the level of taxes, and that any heads in is plus and every heads out is minus. No, it's actually like that budget we agreed on last year, really was the first time we started getting a green tax shift. The fact that it pays a little more to work and pays less to pollute, I think it's good. The fact that we actually stimulate that it is nice to work a little, but that it is bad to pollute, I think, is good. That it's just the level of taxation that's interesting to us politicians is a fanatical view. We should have done so that it was cheaper to buy food that was healthy than food that was unhealthy. We should have had a real green tax change that valued that people participated and worked, and that didn't appreciate that they contaminated. We should have used our tax system much more effectively to bring about the changes we want in society. Then the millimeters in level are not interesting, then that's how we take in that money, how we create jobs, how we create changes in people's activity, how we stimulate what we want more of, and prevent what we want less of -- that debate -- that's interesting for politicians, but here it seems like we have a debate where there's only the level of intake that's interesting. I had hoped that we would have a much more nuanced tax debate than that, because it's not like all the taxes are bad, and it's not like all the taxes are good – initially. It can be used in every way, and I'm really glad that the last budget was the first time we were close to getting a green tax change. Now the government has put down a commission, but I expect we'll get something in the budget further in the future as well. That's why I started my post as I did, because something fundamental has happened when we actually manage it – with the history of some parties in that collaboration. I'm proud that we actually managed to get to the shift that makes changes, and that makes for a different society, because that's actually what drives most of us here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1286	As I said in my post, I have considerable respect for the job of the Christian People's Party and the Left for the asylum children. I am honoured by the Christian People's Party and the Left when they negotiate with the Right Party and the Advance Party, and I am fully aware that the main challenge of getting a brighter policy towards children is that there is a majority in this Chamber – the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party – who do not want it. But I still think that the representative Syversen could dress a little bit more humble, and that we who stand together in that matter should be a little clearer with each other. It is also the case that the largest agreement and the biggest change in the case of asylum-seekers in Norway came under the red-green government in 2007. More than 1000 children were allowed to stay only in months after that decision. What we could have done in this period, we'll never know, but we know what the Christian People's Party and the Left did, and it must be allowed to say that to this point it's not impressive – a very limited one-time solution and a draft of a lasting solution that turned out to be a narrowing. Then, too, the Christian People's Party must find that the strategy you have chosen is being called into question, especially when, at the same time as there are no demands for rescuing the cases, a strong increase in the rate of deportation has been accepted, which necessarily means that many families with children are sent out of the country. One of the most interesting rounds of this debate has been on Norway’s climate objectives. I have to say that although I am pleased that the government in the throne and also the Prime Minister in his speech today is talking about climate – because it is quite obvious that there is a progress for a matter that it has not been talked about, suddenly to be talked about – I find it strange that the Prime Minister cannot say loud and clear that Norway is going to achieve the climate goals in 2020. I'm too sober, but it worries me that the Prime Minister is more concerned about stressing that she is sober than she is offensive. What we need in terms of climate goals is an offensive prime minister who says that the first priority in the years up to 2020 is to meet the climate agreement and that the goal is to be achieved. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister once again to say that, before this debate is over, instead of saying that it would have been fun to achieve the objectives – I would like to hear a Prime Minister say that those objectives are to be achieved, and then we have a constructive debate together in the Grand Duchy on how we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1297	The representative Martin Kolberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1300	Let me make a confession to the representative, Nesvik, by saying that, yes, it is absolutely right that there has been a breakthrough, as the representative said from the pulpit here. For example, this with allowances on the tax-free had probably not come to the right, I think, and also this with pro boxing and uncertainty about the aid allocation. These are three good examples of the success of the Progress Party towards the Right. That's not exactly what I was thinking first and foremost. What I was thinking about was all they've been saying for years about the social analysis -- the rule of action, for example, was just some nonsense, it was just driving on with oil money. Tax cuts in the 100-billion dollar class were quite fine. The fees were in the way of people. And at the last national meeting, Finance Minister Siv Jensen said that the entire Norwegian social system was in the way of the Norwegian people. It's all gone. So the core of the whole understanding of the analysis of the Progress Party -- it's the wrong one, and it's the one that collapsed. And that's what's true.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1305	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1308	I too would like to pay a little visit to the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Nesvik. He ventured to say something such as that one had to be quite far out on the left side to accept so-called free treatment choice. Then I thought that I had to check. I checked and found out that the Association of Nurses is critical, the Association of Psychologists is critical, the Medical Association is critical, the Municipality of Oslo is critical, the Directorate of Health is critical, all healthcare companies are critical – yes, even the NHO Service is critical. I then think that perhaps the representative Nesvik and the government would rather listen to the professionally heavy advice on this matter, rather than throw out such claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1313	In such debates, it is always tempting to try to fight for one's own glory and history. I will be allowed to say in the beginning that it is of course that the Progress Party has a lot of impact on Norwegian policy. So they haven't been on their own in Stortinget, it's actually a broad majority on the bourgeois side who wanted it. The Progress Party has been implemented in many important areas of care for the elderly. That's why we might be closer to achieving the Workers' Party's own goals. This government has increased the number of commitments, but also the amounts that municipalities receive to expand health homes, because we have an commitment to ensure that older people get a decent care. When I took the floor, it was primarily because I have a little need, once and for all, perhaps, to say something about the Storting's most creative storyteller. Trond Giske is a fascinating politician. He tells many good stories – not all with equal coatings. To tell you that it was the Workers' Party that raised the level of knowledge on continuing education and training, probably does not vote completely. It was an integral and important part of the Knowledge Lift. Therefore, for the first time, the previous bourgeois government proposed a large government increase of 375 million. kr for continuing education in connection with the promise to know-how – a level that has been around since then. So I'm going to make a confession to the red-green government: they could have cut it out when the three-year period for the implementation of the Knowledge Lift was over. But already then several of us had proposed even more intensive efforts to continue training in Stortinget, and I think it was wise that the red-green government then chose to continue it. But what we see when we look at history is that it rises under a bourgeois government, and makes a new pledge under a new bourgeois government, because it's such an important bet. This I think is the last time I'm going to talk about it from the pulpit, but I think it's okay that you don't try too much creative story from the Workers' Party. That makes me a little uncomfortable, to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1322	Let me also use the tame of the debate to correct a creative story of history – this time from the Advancement Party and the Right, perhaps especially the parliamentary leader, Trond Helleland, who says that the police analysis was a red-green proposal. It wasn't at all. The police analysis committee was a maritime sample, which assessed the future of the police on an entirely free basis. That's what we're going to deal with. After all, the central party believes that the police analysis goes too far, will result in excessive centralisation, which would mean that from 2001 until today the number of police districts would have been cut from 54 to 6 and that the number of officers would have to be halved. I'm not against discussing the police districts, but I think this is a scheme for centralisation that is neither lucky nor necessary, and that will work against its purpose, if you look at the evaluation after the first police reform. So in that context, I just want to mention that I think it is necessary to see the width of the proposals that are available in terms of preparedness in the future. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness fully assesses the fire service on its own. It is important to involve and get a political assessment and a political discussion. The same applies to the 110 centres, where the Minister of Justice finally had to instruct the DSB to stop the attempts at centralisation as requested, because the treatment of police reform has to be awaited. It is precisely what is behind the proposals of the Central Party today that you can see the three floors in the context. It shouldn't mean delaying anything, on the contrary, it means that you can get equal treatment, but you can get a broader review of all the preparedness sessions, and I think that both the Storting and not least the agencies involved deserve a broad political treatment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1329	It's possible to have different views on history, including in the field of knowledge. Continuing education and training are two different types of initiative. I think it's a little special that the Prime Minister calls a counter-debate an inconvenient when there's other view that I think is very well documented. The representative of Greece talked about doing what we promised the voters on behalf of the majority government. Well, we'll see how the voters react to it after a year and after tomorrow. So the first thing that happened was you put away a lot of promises from both sides. I believe that the representative, Mr Kolberg, points to a very important aspect of the Progress Party, which has made promises. So we'll see how the voters now react when they experience that they, for example. have more expensive kindergartens – a commitment that we have made to a significant point in family policy. It is sold out that now it is becoming cheaper kindergarten for the poorest, and then it turns out that that reform also has certain aspects to it when we see it in full text. We'll see more tomorrow. We'll see how the voters react when we see that the richest get a lot of tax relief, and that the differences in Norway are increasing. The Labour Party is not against changes in taxes, we have made changes in both levels and devices over eight years, and we will also propose that in order for the tax system to be effective, fair, redistributive and stimulating good investments. The green shift, too, is for us. We'll see how the voters react when the councillors do what we're now getting reports from all over the country, that's, cows in welfare. I agree with the representative Arnstad, who says that the test is located here in the municipal economy. That's what every day we meet when we receive the most important and most vulnerable welfare services that matter to us. We will see how the voters react when workers experience a historical protection that is a flexible scheme, which provides ample room for flexibility and agreements in terms of worker protection, the Working Environment Act, being weakened. And again, as I have said several times, if this were what the Minister of Labour promised us – at the best of the workers, the best of the families and the best of the parents – they might have nodded to this. And the disabled had nodded to it. But within new words and honors, this is presented as something that is good. And we'll see how the voters also react to this very eagerness to sell out Norwegian business, without strategic considerations about what is important to Norway in a globalised age where ownership also matters to where there are jobs, value creation and head office. So all of that is to be followed in the future and debated, and be able to have a debate that also has considerable disagreement without the opponent's views being uncomfortable for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1346	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1349	First, I just want to say that I think it is a little special that the Prime Minister calls one of the representatives here 'impossible' — especially when the basis for that characteristic comes from a manifest misunderstanding on the part of the Prime Minister. It is a fact that in 2005 the previous blue government raised 30 million. for further training, and there was no system in place for it with distribution between municipalities and countries, how this was to be distributed. But this whole system was created by SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party in government, which then increased to 310 million. kr in 2013. It's a fact. So to the Seven. The representative Keshvar from the Progress Party has said that of course it was a result of the cooperation agreement that several asylum children were sent out of the country. UDI has also admitted that there is a stronger practice now. This has received criticism from the Redd Children, from UNICEF, etc. – many organizations. We have to go together, we can't continue to make ourselves so tall and dark that it goes out over others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1356	I became involved in politics in 2001, and I joined the Young Right because of school policy. At the time, the representative was Giske's actual Minister of Education. He also brought me up on the pulpit now, because I think – like the Prime Minister – that history is going to be something creative. The representative Gahr Støre also said that after eight years of red-green government the results went up in Norwegian school. Well, I think some reason why the red-greens at some point lost the election was just that they didn't see the challenges we're facing. For example, the PISA study has revealed – I do not say that the PISA study says everything – that we were never measured lower in real science than in 2013. We know that 65 pst. by those who are in the professional field, do not strike out in their professional field, they strike out in math. Once again, if we are to balance social differences, make sure that as much as possible is able to succeed in society, we have to make sure that as much as possible completes, and then we actually have to get a real-time job even for those students who are in the profession. What is the government doing? Well, what they're doing is doing what's most important first. The most important first are good, professionally up-to-date, motivated, competent teachers. There is a great debate here on continuing education. Well, the truth is – and I think everyone can agree – that in 2006 the Knowledge promise, which had been adopted, was introduced. In the knowledge promise, as the bourgeois government made, it was said that teachers should be re-trained and further trained compared to Reform 97. Fortunately, you did, and then it was flat – until we got a government shift that did it. I would like to remind you of one thing, and that is that the representative Trond Giske two weeks before the elections was with the then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg on TV and promised to double the further training of teachers in the next period. When they submitted their last budget, which was probably finished when they came to sell that case, they revealed that they increased the bet on continuing education by zero kroner. This is for some reason, I think – again – that the voters were not fooled when they were going to the polls. We adopt and introduce five-year master's education. The working party is now in order to have a five-year education, but they don't want masters. We introduce skills requirements, which are accused of being late. Yes, you know what, I agree with that – it comes about. eight years late. In fact, if the red-greens had done this in 2005, if they've always been so for this, we would have done it in 2017. But they never did. We – the then opposition – also proposed it in the Stortinget in 2012. That time the red-greens voted it down. Once again, if you have such a bad time, it is very stupid to vote against the proposals when they are promoted. Finally, we also make career paths for the good teachers, together with the parties, so that we can get new positions for the teachers so that they can also gain status, increase pay and stay in the classroom even if they are offered to do other things. Finally, if we fully agree with Norwegian policy – and have always been – that the most important thing is the teacher, it is even more serious that for eight years we have had a red-green majority who did not prioritise the teacher when they had the power.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1372	Some people believe that the future can be adopted by this hall, but I think it is that most of us understand that the future is created through practical policies and not necessarily through decisions that will be crucial for a nation in both five, ten and fifteen years. The reason why I asked for the floor is that both the representative Lundteg and the representative, Mr Kolberg, from this pulpit today, have worked – almost to say – more Catholicly than the pope is. Lundtigen even went back to 1998, then to 1994 and then back to 1917 and strongly claims that what you did at the time, you stand for – that's how it should be, that's how it should be, and that's how it should be in the future. I don't think that's good solutions for our nation. I actually think it's the way we have to take inwards that if we're going to meet a global competition in the future, that's the thing in our own country we have to change. Kolberg wants to harp on the Progress Party. I'm going to give Kolberg one thing: we haven't removed all the toll stations in Norway, we haven't. But only in North Norway have we saved the population for over 2 billion. NOK in fees by removing toll stations, so we make a significant difference. It's not just that there's pro boxing or other things, the government actually gives much more to health, much more to care for the elderly. We're going to give far more to the justice sector, and we're going to overfill the NTP. Of course Kolberg wants to overlook these things in his harelas, but I think it's irresponsible, like I think it's irresponsible and bad politics when, for example. those in the Workers' Party are very positive to spend well over 30 billion. NOK – or they said 40 billion. kr or 50 brd. kr – on an OL in 2022, where both the Vice-Chairman and the Chairman say that if you do not vote correctly and as you should, the representatives are to be told to use whips, despite coming from a state that may have resistance to the OL of over 80 pst. It says a lot about the democratic mindset inside the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1383	Just very briefly: I realized that SV's parliamentary leader would want me to be a little more humble, especially when SV allowed himself to question what we had achieved. Well, you're probably not alone in wanting me to be more humble, someone in your own party thinks I'm too humble, so there's a little different views about it. But it is clear that when you go from SV through Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, we say that after the election we did a ‘detestable’ – and that’s the quote – choice of partners, I also think SV in the name of justice must tolerate a response.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1390	I notice that the Prime Minister is unwilling to go to the pulpit and say that the climate goals are to be met. I think that's interesting and serious. I would like to repeat the call to come to the pulpit and say so. It's a crucial signal to the Storting and will be a positive start on the effort we need to discuss what kind of action we need to take to achieve goals. But there was another thing that made me take the floor again, and it was the Prime Minister's argument with the previous government on the question of continuing education and teaching. I would probably recommend the Prime Minister to be a little bit more careful in his dealings with history, and especially when she combines it with criticism by others for creative storytelling. The previous government increased its share of the bill for continuing education. The first year after that conversion, the number of teachers taking continuing education increased by 20 pst. There has been a systematic build-up of this offer. It's good that this government does more of that, but it's not this big, brand new, even the historical teacher's vow that government parties' representatives describe. There's nothing new in the Teacher Lift. That's a little bit more of what the previous government did, and that's good. But what's really needed now is more teachers, more trust in school and less bureaucracy, that Trine Skei Grande wanted yesterday. There's nothing of this teacher's promise. It illustrates a little bit of this government's problem. I think this debate has shown very clearly that what the government is talking about the most, is not what the government is doing the most. It's a little small at all, as this kindergarten bet that now turns out to be the opposite of making the bills to the poorest families bigger in the first few months of next year, and the discount less than the budget leaks added, or the effort against poverty that, according to the leaks, will show us tomorrow that it will cut transitional payments, like the child supplement in the disability, so that the poor get poorer. There's a lot of talk about that kind of thing, and there's almost no talk about what the government's doing the most, that's big tax cuts. That is what is the great effort of this government. But it's talking to the Right and the Advance Party almost nothing about, and I think it's because they know it's not very popular out there. It's interesting to see the gap between what the government parties say is most important, and what they show is most important. I'm afraid that contrast will become apparent when the budget comes tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1403	The last few weeks, and also this debate, have shown that the Workers' Party is struggling to find the shape of a new role. I must say that I think is quite right, but I still think it is important that there should be some fairness in the policy. As I understood it, the head of the Justice Committee, Hadia Tajik, stood up here not so long ago and told – or at least gave the impression – that it was the red-green government that had started work on the implementation of new criminal law outside the existing large Value Added Programme, which is the police's large computer network system. I could simply not leave that undisputed, because it is directly wrong. So it's not a creative understanding of history that we heard from previous speakers, but it's directly wrong. I think that's unfortunate. Then I understand that the Workers' Party may regret that they did nothing more to bring into force a law that was passed in the Stortinget in 2005 and 2009. I also find it hard to accept trying to create the impression that everything that is done by a new government, which is good, is inheritance from the red-green, but that everything else is government challenges. So there was no arrest in the department when we took over the Ministry of Justice and Defence to speed up the implementation of new criminal law – no arrest. Then I record that there has been quite a big debate on centralisation and major reforms. Both the Police Analysis and the Fire Study have been mentioned in this respect. It is very good work that is a good basis for good debates. It has been discussed whether to be open in processes, etc. We were so open in the follow-up to the police analysis that we invited all parties in Stortinget to join the process from the start. The Labour Party would not be involved, but they have had the opportunity. I expect, after all, when these matters come to Stortinget – and they will – that the parties representing the government that put down both the Police Analysis Committee and the work on the Fire Study are also creative and constructive in the follow-up to the Stortinget. It will also be in a slightly overall good tone towards the end of a tough debate in many areas, because I do expect those who have contributed to us starting this work, also helping us to end it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1412	It's been talked about history story. It's quite right that the Workers' Party is good at storytelling, actually that's all they have left. It is difficult for the Workers' Party to criticise the government's tax policy when one no longer has one's own to answer for. Then it's better to tell a story. It is difficult to criticise the government's policy on cash support when there is no longer a single member of the Workers' Party who can explain the Workers' Party's policy on cash support. Then it's better to tell a story. And when the only real criticism associated with school policy is about fresh schools, when you can't explain your own policy, it's much better to tell a story. And of course, when it comes to working life, the policy of the Workers' Party is the status quo, if you ignore Raymond Johansen, which means something slightly different. Unfortunately, the status quo doesn't fit reality, so it's better to tell a story. One would almost think that the Workers' Party has gone from being a party to becoming a publisher. The representative Gahr Støre says that there is a lot of flexibility in today's work environment law, and some flexibility is that, the representative Gahr Støre has quite right in it, but I just remember that he says it completely without consideration for the people who have now signed up for the union because their local agreement on working time was not respected. So maybe the representative Gahr Støre, the representative of Kolberg – who is very involved in these questions – and the representative Andersen would take a walk and listen to the history of these people. Listening has been manraged to the Workers' Party. We haven't seen much of this happen, but it's the mantra. They could have listened, and then they might have had a basis for this so-called policy development.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1423	I will, of course, confirm that the government is working hard every day to help us achieve the targets we have set for reducing climate change emissions in Norway, both by 2020 and by 2050. When I have allowed myself to say that it may be difficult, it is among other things. because some of the major areas of activity, which we all in fact agree to be an important part of the climate agreement, for example. the major collective actions will not be completed by 2020. That means that some of those sectors are going to deliver good results in areas between 2020 and 2030, but just around 2020, we're not sure we've reached them in ports. I think we should work well creatively to find the good new measures. We have proposed someone who was not part of the climate agreement already, we have proposed more money to the climate technology fund, we have signalled new measures that we are going to implement to strengthen the climate agreement, and we are still going to have a great deal of commitment to the forest initiative internationally. We advertised it, among other things. In the course of the general meeting week and the climate summit, where we in two very important countries in terms of preserving both biodiversity and rainforest, are now entering into a great deal of commitment. But I want to say that we don't have to be blind because the time is short. Therefore, the government has also pushed forward some of the projects and has been very clear that the tools we agreed on in the context of the climate agreement are not enough to achieve the goal. I am pleased to see the list that SV has previously said today that they should promote or propose. I am absolutely sure that there will be measures we agree on, measures we disagree on, and measures we can have a lot of political debate on. In common, I believe that this is something we should work together on. We've had a pretty big and broad consensus on that. I must be allowed to say that I have now seen two different external characteristics of what I have said in here. One, from some climate teams, is that it's very uplifting, and the other, from other teams, is that it's very bad. Then that probably means that there's good, conservative policy in sum.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1434	On behalf of the Workers' Party, I owe it to make it clear that we will vote in favour of the proposal from the Centre Party and against the proposal from SV. To the Minister of Justice, I can promise – as I said in my first post – that we will be creative and constructive. We are meeting the work in Stortinget on the police reform that is coming. But let me also say, on behalf of the chairman of the Judicial Committee and my good colleague, Mr Tajik, who has asked for a debate meeting with the Minister of Justice since last autumn and has been given no consistently, that a good advice will be to take that debate in a radio studio, public, so that we can follow the debate between the Labour Party and the Government in this important area. I would like to ask the representative Heggelund to visit the publishing world. Which form he wants to choose, I shouldn't say -- I think comics might be a good idea. There it is, among others. many good caricature publications, and there I think he will do well. How many buyers he gets, I don't know, because I think people rather read hard goods that deal with reality. Tax policy is part of the Workers' Party's programme. We have a tax level for the period 2013-2017 that we will follow if we rule. We are for changes in taxes; we are for making taxes greener, more efficient, fairer, more redistributive and stimulating productive investment. Cash support: The working party is against. We've been working against for many years, we have programs that we're against. What I have mentioned is that we have to open our eyes and see that families with children aged 12 months may need flexibility until they have a nursery place. School policy: The Labour Party has a long list of proposals we want to introduce to strengthen school, strengthen teachers. We've invited this autumn to a broad deal about what we agree on, because we agree on a lot. Then we have to take the debate on what we disagree about in other areas. As far as the Working Environment Act is concerned, we are following up on what all employee organisations and disabled people, who are receiving income for profound changes, say to that reform: no. The representative Heggelund said that I should spend more time talking to those who signed up – I assume he refers to the situation in Bergen. I can spend time on it. As far as I've read – if that's right – there were two who signed out. During the year, 200 registered. The representative Heggelund would like to talk to them – I am speaking on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of Norwegian workers who have had a protection that has been flexible since the 1970s. It can only be measured that Norway has the most adaptable business in Europe, creates new jobs, degrades when businesses fail to succeed, but develop further. I believe caricatures are what the representative Heggelund here is doing, but it's also interesting reading, and I look forward to reading when he gives out in his own publishing house.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1453	Here we go from comics to books to facts. As a comment to Minister of Justice Anundsen's comment on the time horizon for criminal law, I would just quote from Dagbladet on 22 April 2013, from the political leadership at that time: ‘The new criminal justice system of the police will be operational since 2017. We work actively to get it done before." The same is also true in the VG on 20 March 2013. I too, as the representative Gahr Støre, would like to express my sincere thanks for the invitation to discuss the police reform. We probably have as much impatience as the people we've met in the police and among the police officers, who sit and trip and wait to get started with the big discussion that's not yet taken out in the public room. But I expect that Anundsen, who has both the background he has and who can have wise thoughts in many areas, sees that there is a difference between it and a process in which the opposition party that sits in the governing body of the government is invited to meet behind closed doors in the government that the Storting should control, before the matter comes to Stortinget. We want to be constructive, we need to be involved, and we need to be creative and listen to police and the Minister of Justice when this is going to happen. We want a good solution for the police in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1467	As opposition politicians, it is interesting to see that the government parties feel so pressured when discussing school policy that they have to dig deep into the argument bag, for example when the Prime Minister uses expressions such as ‘impossible’ when she is confronted with facts in school policy. And what are the facts about continuing education? On 5 September of this year, the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, replied to a question from Christian Tynning Bjørnø from the Workers' Party about continuing training. There's the numbers in black and white. I've got these. In 2005, 31 million were granted. SEK for further training, in 2013 EUR 311 million was granted. kr. In 2005, the total appropriations for continuing education and training were 323 million. kr. In 2013, it amounted to 518 million. kr. With the danger of being stamped as inconvenient: these are facts presented by the government itself. After all, the Prime Minister should choose to confirm or disclaim the fact that these figures by the Minister of Knowledge actually vote. Otherwise, in the case that a requirement for immersion should come in 2029, the action force is not the concept I want to use of such an implementation. A commitment to character requirements in three subjects – Norwegian, English and math – has become an advance in math. That's not how most people think about it. Several representatives from the government parties in this Chamber have thus referred to policy as a change of pace. In school policy, it is a continuation and a reinforced commitment to continuing education – it is good that all parties agree. Otherwise, the preliminary rate change is a shift to a lower rate. The important thing in the school debate in the future should be how we can give teachers what they want in the first place: time to be a teacher, to be a good professional, to take care of the students – and not least a good community economy that gives municipalities the opportunity to invest in the school. I am delighted and look forward to the government's participation in those debates, not least tomorrow when the state budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1476	What makes me react is the opinion of the head of the Justice Committee, who believes that the process of police reform has been a closed process. There has been an open process, to the greatest extent, in which all the political parties in the Committee on Justice and those outside the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights are to be involved in the process. Because it is an important matter, it is an important reform for Norway, and then we must not let this become a political game. The Minister of Justice must be commended for having at all invited everyone to come up with their views and discuss how we can make this process work out in the best possible way in the long term. So I have to say that it's a little suspicious when the representative Tajik says that this is a closed process, which itself belongs to a party that has the term 'that someone has spoken together'. This matter is too important for us to discuss it in a NRK studio, which I record that the representative Gahr Støre believes. This process must be taken into account in the Storting, it must be taken away from us as big-scale politicians, and we must take responsibility for making this a good reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1483	The President will point out that addressing in the Chamber is made to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1487	Now the debate of the throne begins to go to the end. To sum up a little bit, I think it's obvious that the red-green parts have not come completely in the form of an opposition party. I didn't think they should be so sorry, I hope they get a long time and many periods of time on themselves as an opposition party, so that they can find shape every now and then. That the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are dissatisfied with the government's policy is not surprising – on the contrary, it is fun. It shows that the government is on the right track, because when the voters chose a new number on the Stortinget, which resulted in a new government, it was precisely that one wanted a new course, a new policy. It gets one, and the fact that the former government party is then dissatisfied with it is the way it should be. The new price is determined in many areas – the previous government increases taxes and taxes; this government wants to reduce taxes and taxes. Some people have spoken here of a person talking too little about taxes and taxes in this debate. There may be someone who thinks so, but I think we'll talk more about taxes and charges beyond the cottage, and about other things that belong to the budget, when it's presented tomorrow. So when you want to reduce taxes and taxes, it's not just because you have a basic attitude to it, but it's simply that you want to get better framework conditions, reduce taxes and taxes to secure Norwegian jobs. And so one of us thinks that it's good that most people get to keep more of their own money, and that they know how to spend these money in an excellent way, far better than most politicians are to control their money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1498	State councillor Anders Anundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1501	What got me to take the floor was the amazing clarification of the representative Henriksen, where she referred to a newspaper quote from former political leadership that confirms what I am saying. At that time, it was considered that the value added programme could be clear in 2017, while it was clear in the autumn of 2013 that it could be clear in 2018 at the earliest. It confirms that the previous government let the new penal law sail its own seas along with the Value Added Programme. There was no single attempt to lift the new penal code out of the Value Added Programme, so that it could come into force earlier. This government has done something about it because we respect the decision of the Storting. And so now the new penal code will come into force in 2015, which is much earlier than the previous government said both in April 2013 and later. I just think it is important to stress that, as politicians, we have a certain need to be despicable in what we say from this pulpit. Then I have registered that someone criticises the government for our early involvement in the police analysis reform. It's been done many times before, including by the previous government, with quite great success.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1508	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1511	This is getting better and better, and the consensus might get bigger and bigger, because we're actively working to make it clear before, the same thing Anundsen says when he talks about 2015. As for the process that Ebbesen also commented on, I just show that we will be constructive, and we will contribute to this. And I can't figure out what was going to happen in these closed meetings instead of it coming into the public room. Police reform is important to debate, it is important that we get that debate out of the government office, out in the media and out among politicians. We're going to be there when that matter comes to Stortinget, then we're going to be both creative and positive, and we're looking forward to it coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1518	One of the worst things about politics, which I thought before I got engaged, was when you started to owe each other and distrust who had started what. We've now entered a stage in the debate where it happens, and we're talking about history story. But I need to say that it was the previous bourgeois government that initiated the Knowledge promise, and so in the 2006 budget it was added 375 million. SEK for continuing training of teachers. When, in the line change yesterday, I was confronted with questions about the concreteization of the Teacher Lift, I actually became a little bit of a paff, because that's quite concrete. My challenge was to answer that it was just visions and empty words. It really isn't – it's quite concrete bets, as we talked about many times yesterday. And when we were also criticized for not mentioning the time thief work, I was actually also a little surprised, because it's a work that's going on in the government, which is just about removing the time thieves in school. Whatever the history of the Workers' Party is trying to tell us about the efforts of teachers to continue training, I believe that the people and the voters are aware that it is the government – and I say the government, not the new government, because there is no new government anymore – that takes the lead in the knowledge, research and investment of teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1527	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1533	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1541	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to file a case for an overall review of the organisation of emergency situations; police, fire services and 110 centres.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1567	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, pending notification of new legislation, for immediate stoppages of long-term asylum children who have been here for three years or more and their families. The cases shall be brought before the Court of Justice and shall be suspended.`;
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1582	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King be annexed to the 159th anniversary of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-07.ana.ud1227e1640	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
