ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e117	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Are Health and Anne Odenmarck For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Mette Hanekamhaug and Steinar Reiten For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Greta Johanne Solfall For Oslo: Pål Yasin Ezzari, Guri Melby and Ann Kathrine Skreushammer For the Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal Two permit applications are available: from the Left-wing Group on welfare leave of the representative Terje Breivik for the period from 8 December to 12 December from the Workers' Group on welfare leave of the representative Freddy de Ruiter for the days of 9 and 10 December On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: For East Agder County: Line Kisses VenneslandFor Hordaland County: Åsta Årøen
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e194	Åsta Årøn is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 5 is treated as a whole. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e256	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e267	These are troubled times in Europe. It affects Norway. Slowly, but surely, we will also have challenges with the economic cycle that we have not noticed too much over time in Norway, but that may have a greater impact in the future. Therefore, it is important to have a budget that solves important tasks today and equips Norway for the future. We have some challenges with the transition to a new year. We have an estimated unemployment rate of 3.6 p.m. in the 2015 budget – to which a unanimous increase subscribes. Some of the numbers say a decrease, while other numbers say an increase. This means that the government needs to have a good dialogue with the social partners in the next year to take action if necessary. We also have a budget that sets out a number of measures, both to strengthen the working line and to ensure a stable exchange rate. When we now see export-oriented business struggling, for example, the importance of the contribution of the same business to the price of the krona, which has recently deteriorated. This committee, which works in the labour and social segment, has strengthened Nav. There is a strong focus within Nav on improving services in order to strengthen the line of work ahead of the social line. It's a job that this government increases clarity. The government's objective is a safe, flexible labour market that ensures low unemployment and high employment. A well-functioning labour market is essential for each one to realize its dreams and ambitions, and it must always pay off to work. The government will work for well-functioning tripartite cooperation, high productivity in business and high well-being among workers. It ensures a good working life for everyone. At the same time, we know that Norwegian working life has some challenges. We have a lot of employees who want more flexibility, which makes it easier to combine work and privacy. Within a number of occupational groups, there is a high proportion of involuntary part-time jobs, and for this government, it is a major objective to lower the threshold to enter the labour market for low-skilled people. That is why it becomes very difficult to deal with a new work environment law, which will be dealt with here at Stortinget in the new year. The right-hand party government made choices on tax relief. It delivers this budget. We went to the elections to make a great effort on health and care tasks. It will be greatly strengthened in this budget. We went to a safer community, and the police say for the first time in a state budget that they don't need more money. The budget for transport has been a major cause for this government, and that's exactly what we went to elections on. For us in the Right, the workline is one of the most important things for our policy. We have a number of measures in the budget to help get more people working, to make it easier to get to work, and if you get out of work, we have a number of measures to get back to work, either in education or in the profession. We are significantly reducing the wealth tax. This is what we do to ensure Norwegian jobs, but not least to create new jobs, which this country needs. We're increasing the entry point in the top estimate. We know that contributes to the working line and increased participation in the work. We increase the minimum deduction and help raise those who earn the least. Many students have said over the years that the credit card limit is too low. We're increasing the credit card limit in this budget up to $50,000. A contribution to getting people into the work line we know are kindergartens, so mom and dad can be in work. So we also know that to have a social channel into work, it's, even though the nursery price is relatively low, for very many a relatively high price. That's why the government cuts the babysitting bill at $5,500 a year for those who need it the most. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are making changes from next year – i.e. for 2016 – to the children's supplement that supports below the working line. We'll do a maximum of 95 pst. the disbursement of the income before disability. We're doing it, along with a unanimous growth today, easier to combine disability benefits with work. It is, as I see it in the debate, a unanimous increase which is also today supporting the transitional regimes of the government with regard to the new disability, including the transitional rules. We have a budget that increases the resources of social entrepreneurs and new instruments. We combine a number of labour market measures. We extend the activity obligation scheme for people over 26 years of age. We strengthen the system for Group 2 cars, so that those with a very limited walk function are now included in the scheme. The government strengthens the interpretation service for deaf blind people. We are developing speech recognition programmes in Norwegian, and together with our cooperation parties the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are warning a plan of action to combat child poverty. Very many of those who live on different public support schemes do so because they do not get the help of society they need. Therefore, the Right Party government reintroduces the golden rule that growth in mental health and drug use should be greater than growth in somatic products. There we find a lot of people who need a new chance in their working life. We bet 0.5 billion. more on prevention work in municipalities. This is about helping those who need it the most. First, we're going to help them get better, then they're going to get sleepless, and then they're going to get help getting an education and get out of work. For 2015, there are 69 400 action places that Nav will use either for ordinary, general unemployed people on measures, people with disabilities, permanent organised work, or we will use redundancy money as a wage subsidy instead of passive social security. A separate message came to Stortinget on Friday, which just mentioned this. There is no doubt that the work done by the red-green government to include more people in the labour market in the last ten years has been reasonably weak in the achievement of results. That's why this government says we need to focus on things that we know work. One of the most sophisticated measures to get people into work is the use of wage subsidies. For this reason, the government has now made proposals aimed at making it easier and more attractive for employers to use it, and a new permanent wage subsidy scheme is now being established for those with a long-term and significantly reduced working capacity. What the employer gets paid for by the costs of employees who need to be organized, we are going to increase, simply because we believe that many employers either do not know about it or leave it to be hired because there is too much work for them. We respond to it as a whole business and many at the Nav offices say. We simply have too many arrangements. They need to be merged, they need to be made more easily accessible, so that an employer understands the nature of the arrangements and that a Nav employee – in a medium-sized or small office – also understands the actions that work for the individual. In this context, we will also have an activity obligation for social welfare beneficiaries for 2015. All of this helps to strengthen the workline, to ensure that we have a social safety net for those who have fallen outside. This means that we see the individual who gets unemployed, which we are going to help get back to work. We see the addict who's going to be helped to become drug-free and get into education. We say that those who need temporary help from the state, the municipality or the public will get it. This is a very good government budget that we have created together with our good cooperation parties the Christian People's Party and the Left. This is a budget that strengthens the working line and provides a good social security network. It solves important tasks today and equips Norway for the future. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation and, not least, the Committee Secretary for a very good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e314	The right hand side and the front side originally proposed large and rough cuts in the children's supplement. After the budgetary negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the proposal was abandoned, and a better system was reached with thanks. I wonder how the representative Kambe assesses the two different variants. Does the representative Kambe – and does he agree with most others – believe that the original proposal of the Right and the Advance Party was too unsocial and contributed too much? And does the representative Kambe agree that the solution that has now been reached with the Christian People's Party and the Left is a better solution than the one originally proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e319	Based on the public debate, represented by SV's Karin Andersen, the Workers' Party did have a proposal for a solution to the children's supplement to which the Workers' Party has in some way been revealed. So really the question could have been asked to the Workers' Party itself. What I think is that it's always going to pay off being at work. Those who are not at work will get good enough action to get back to work. There, for eight years, the Labour Party government has done a very bad job with the Minister of Labour. The results do not stand, and I think it is part of the fact that the Labour Party lost the election. We have bigger ambitions than that. With regard to the device on the children's add-on, we follow up on the Brochmann Committee's setting. We say yes, we're going to reduce the child supplement, and then we're going to make other services cheaper, for example. Kindergarten, which we cut with 5 500 kroner. I think the solution we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left balances well within that need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e328	It was interesting that the chairman of the committee spent so much of his time boasting of the tax reliefs in this debate, but it clearly shows the Right's priority in economic policy, and it was nice to clarify it. Otherwise, the representative stressed that you should lower the threshold to enter the labour market, it would be easier to get in. It is said very often in the context of all those who have a partial working capacity, who now find it increasingly difficult to enter the labour market as a result of high levels of competition. Permanent or fixed-term compensation of employees to the employer is an instrument to remedy this. My question is: Will there be fewer partial working capacity outside the labour market in the next new year, with the government's measures in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e337	There is no doubt that once this government has started to work to look at the measures that work for the unemployed, it sees that for eight years very many of them have been involved in various measures that do not work. People are sitting on a motivational course and a job search course without that being the case to help them. The big message that we received on Friday helps to strengthen the payroll subsidy scheme, measures that work, and we're going to follow up on Nav, so that this will work out, we think. It is quite clear, as the representative Lundtigen also asks questions, that there is a clear objective for this government that the measures we are putting in place should lead to fewer queues and more people who are included in the labour market than it was when we started the government period in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e344	The chairman of the committee started his speech by talking about the uncertainty about what could happen, and since the budget came, we have seen that it is warned that there might be even greater unemployment, and as the committee chairman was about, we have also seen that something else has been said. But that's why we in the Christian People's Party were happy that we got more action places into the budgetary agreement with the government parties. I would like to hear what the representative Kambe thinks about the prospects, and how he thinks to meet them. Because if unemployment is actually increasing, there will be a need for more places of action, but perhaps also other interventions that can cope with this and ensure that we avoid people falling out of work and staying there for a long time before a person manages to get them back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e351	I think that's an important question. I think it's good to cooperate with the Christian People's Party. I like what Jan P. Syse once said, that cooperation with the Christian People's Party gets the best in the Right, and I think that's also reflected in this line. There is no doubt, as noted in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, that if some regions are affected more than others by unemployment, either temporarily or permanently, then there is now a need for Nav to have its main focus and deploy resources – not only in action areas, many of those who become unemployed, are skilled workers who do not need action or job-seeker training; they may need a shift. So it's quite obvious that we need to look at cooperation between the business community and the professional movement, and not least with Nav, to make sure that those who become unemployed get into work. At the same time, we know that most unemployed people are back in normal employment after three months, and most of them after six months. So here we have a job to do to make sure that development continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e360	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e364	The budget we are considering today is one of the budgets that contributed to the greatest debate after the overall government budget was presented earlier in the autumn. We got everything in the first post here, stressing the tax burden in what is proposed in this budget. For the budget we are discussing today, if one is to assess such media occasionally, whether the government has lost or won the budget struggle, it is obvious that the budget of a Council of State that has lost. But more important and far more serious than that is that this is a budget that creates many losers out there in society. For the government, great emphasis is placed on tax relief, and that is the government and the decided budget's clearly largest investment in dollars and cents. But some people pay for those taxes, and they are the ones that this budget deals with to a large extent. As much as 1 billion. kr the government was prepared to take from those who are unemployed. In fact, it will not have any budgetary impact until 2016, but with a lack of holiday supplement earnings in 2015 – 1 billion. kr from the unemployed in order to contribute to the fragmentation of the tax relief. Then there are a number of measures in this budget that are not price-adjusted, and that is a camouflage cut. Measures for single mothers or fathers in need of child care or education are cut by 12.7 million and 1.3 million respectively. kr. It's already been about helping people get into and stay in the labour market, but organizing for those who are sick to stay in the labour market is cut by over 10 million. kr. Work clearance money is cut by 7.5 million. NOK, basic benefit if you are ill with nearly 40 million. NOK and auxiliary social assistance of 36,7 million. kr. On the aids, the cut is 1.3 million. kr, in orthopaedic aids exceeding 11 mill. kr and on hearing aid over 9 mill. kr – yes, even on the tombstone, cut by 5.8 million. kr. One might say that this government sucks at those who really need it – from cradle to grave – to fund large tax credits to those who have a lot of money already. One of the topics that, fortunately, soon appeared on the agenda was the children’s supplement of over 500 million. kr for those on disability insurance – NOK 28 000 in cut per child. The reactions were strong, and I saw that there were people in the Council of State who thought they had not received the message. That's exactly what the government had done, and that's why the reactions were so strong. Then it's through the budget agreement, and I'll give the Christian People's Party and the Left praise for it, found another solution, which nevertheless involves 50 million. kr i cut, but which is a completely different solution than what the government originally provided. Then to the law of permacy. It is right – and the government warns – that we are in a situation where we have challenges in terms of employment and that unemployment can grow. An overall business life in Norway has repeatedly said that it must be wrong to cut the permit code, because what the government is doing is making it more difficult to be serious. The councils usually tend to tell some anecdotes about where he's been, and who he's been talking to. We talk to people we too, but to this day I have not found one on the employer's side, and not one on the employee's side – to the extent that it had to mean something to the government council – who believes that the cut-off in the permit code is reasonable. Nevertheless, it continues. Both in the Land Association of Construction — the Joint Alliance on the other hand — and not least in the industry that is now facing major challenges, the supplier industry linked to the reduction of oil prices and the reduction of investment, it goes without saying that having the opportunity to permit to spend the time schooling people to get even better qualified after the permit period is a strength and a support to business. So the government is doing the opposite. The government is forcing people to leave instead of being allowed to leave for a period. In general, industrial policy is the most important labour market policy, and especially in a situation where there are dark clouds around us in terms of employment. Nevertheless, we see that the government cuts in the marine sector, which is incredibly important for the whole country of Norway, the cutter in the tourism sector, the cutter on agriculture, the cutter on forestry, and the cutter on Innovation Norway. It cuts at all on the effort to contribute to the smooth functioning of ordinary employment and therefore creates challenges for labour market policy. Economic policy is the most important labour market policy, the cuts are systematic. However, while the government is tracking increased unemployment, it is still keeping the low level of cut labour market measures down to this year. In addition, it was cut for those with additional labour market needs – there is some adjustment to that in the budget agreement, but it was the government’s proposal. We've been working both to increase the normal places of action and to increase by 1,000 places in view of those who have special needs in the labour market, not least 300 places for those who need permanent work, which are some of those in society that I think both we as a committee and others in the Great Britain have had the pleasure of seeing how happy it is to be in work, that is, for those who may not be able to compete in ordinary working life. We will come back in more detail in later articles to measures against social dumping. We have put forward three plans from the previous government, plans where the measures were, to a large extent, measures against the votes of the Right and the Advance Party. A fight against social dumping is not only a fight against social dumping, but also against the Right and the Progressive Party. We now see a number of measures from the government that go in the wrong direction. So we have proposed new measures to combat social dumping in close cooperation with both sides of industry, put 22 proposals for action and put money into the budget. So a few words about minimum wages, since I am rapporteur for case No. 4 on today's map, Innst. 66 S. I am very pleased that there is a broad majority behind rejecting the proposal on minimum wages. All experience suggests that introducing minimum wages – with the wage-setting system that we have in Norway, and have had since the main agreement of 1935, where we allow the parties to take care of the formation of wages and salaries, and that the authorities do not – will not improve the social dumping situation, but, on the contrary, push the lowest wage level downwards against the minimum wage. I see in the notes that the Progress Party and the Left refer to the Fafos report, but it cannot be read in such a way that they recommend minimum wages – on the contrary. I record that the Council of State does not recommend minimum wages, but that it takes a little longer for the Group of Great Britain to turn around than it takes for the Council of State. Speaking of turning around, it is good that the Council of States has now turned around twice in the case of a breach of the IA agreement. But it is worrying that the government in general and this Council of State have set up a particular form of work in which one should not talk to the social partners. This applies either to one discussing the work environment law, to which we come back, to permitting legislation or to follow up on the IA agreement. I see that as a challenge for the government in the future. Then I will address the proposals on which the Labour Party is alone, and the proposals on which we are with others, in the budget and in the other matters we now have to deal with. I would also like to inform you that we are going to vote against I, III, V and VIII in respect of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e392	The President understands that the ‘other cases’ are case No. 1st case No. Case No. 2 and Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has then taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e397	Thank you very much for your article. Before the red-green government went off, it presented the perspective message. It's a good document, it's an important document, and it describes the challenges we're going to have in financing our common welfare systems in the future. It clearly states that work is the key to future well-being. In addition, it appears that we need to make some changes to our welfare systems. It tries to do this government by, among other things. follow-up to the Committee on Pensions and Welfare and Migration. The working party is against everything. My question is: what changes, what changes will the Workers' Party make in our welfare systems to ensure sustainability and legitimacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e406	In addition to the perspective message, I can build up under what the representative asks for by pointing out that it was actually I as the state council that put down the Brochmann committee, because I am very concerned that we should have sustainability in the welfare system in Norway in the future, and because internationalisation changes the framework conditions for it. In addition to the fact that most of those who have spoken about the Brochmann Committee have talked about social security and labour immigration, Norwegian business today is in a completely different international situation, where some of their employees during periods live abroad and work abroad, and some of the foreign employees work in Norway — there were many reasons to reduce that sample. That's the approximation we want. We will look at the trends in society and see if our social security system is in line with the new challenges we are facing, for example. the fact that it is easier for a Norwegian employee of a Norwegian company operating abroad to operate abroad for periods abroad. And then we're on the line of work -- we've done that, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e413	Over the last few months, the Labour Party has criticised the government for following the line of work and for ensuring that it is always more profitable to work. We also know that representative Hadia Tajik has in recent years thought loudly that perhaps the Workers' Party should slow down the work line. It clearly shows that the old slogan ‘work for all’ is not necessarily the slogan of the Workers’ Party. In the past, the Working Party stood clearly and firmly on the working line. We know that when the Workers' Party put in government, they wanted to cut the children's allowance for non-pensioners so that it would always be more profitable to work than to go to social security. They did not get through that, but the kittens that are known in the children’s supplement to those who receive redundancy money. And my question is, is it more unsocial to cut and adjust the child supplement for those who receive redundancy payments than for those who receive disability benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e420	First, I would like to say that it is precisely because we are taking the line of work seriously that we are also strongly protesting against the government's attitude to the law on permitting. That's why we're opposed to the cuts they're making in industrial policy, because we want people to have essentially opportunities to have normal employment. That's why we also go against the cuts in unemployment benefit payments, because we know that it can help people get back to work when they lose it. Then to the children's supplement. It is quite wrong that the Workers' Party has ever proposed a general cut in the children's supplement. What's true is that we discussed on the basis of professional input that we got, whether it would be right to put a roof on the children's supplement. It's something completely different. There's never been a general discussion in the children's supplement, but that's how we discussed it and put it away. And if you look at the Labour Party's programme and at the Labour Party's vote and settings in Stortinget, you will see that we are on the order we were on in 2012, even today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e427	A social security network is important and should apply to all. Some people who have had worse social rights than others in Norway are those who are not employees, but who are self-employed and entrepreneurs. Something left is very happy that we've got into the budget deal, is that we're doing a raise for them now. We'll make sure they get equal rights to care and care money that employees have. It's important for a lot of people. I can't see that the Labour Party in its alternative budget thinks it's a right priority. Nor have they shown any will to mean before. So my question to the representative Dag Terje Andersen is: can self-employed and founders with sick children look forward to a solid cut if the Labour Party comes back to government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e436	No – but I have mentioned a lot of things in my article, of many things, where the government has cut off schemes that are already there, so then we have had to prioritise it in our alternative budget: getting these cuts back in place, where the cuts are big, for example. in the case of the child allowance for disabled persons, or where it is simply not price adjusted. In total, there has been a lot of money, and we have not been able to give priority to new welfare schemes. For my part, I am very much in favour of these improvements for self-employed workers, which the previous government also stood for, and which I believe the representative Rotevatn agrees with, but there is therefore a link between the payments you make in relation to the benefits you receive back, both in terms of sickness and in terms of leave, etc. For the situation of an employee, there is a payment from both the employer and the employee to the social security fund. But it is not the case that we are opposed to developing a better safety system for self-employed people – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e443	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e446	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation for a busy period of time. I would also like to thank all those who have been at the hearings, all those who have made important recordings along the way. If what this budgetary process really shows is that the Storting is at last back like the democratic arena where recordings, thoughts, proposals and debates create policy instead of politics being decided before it comes to this Chamber. Even if you could get the impression that everything is going in the wrong direction, and that everything is so bad with this budget, it is that Norway is going well and will continue to go well. We still have low unemployment, we have a good working life, we have a high professional participation with both sexes well represented. But even if a lot goes well, it's still the way that too many people today are out of work, too many people with opportunities and want to be able to contribute to the world of work. That is what is part of the basic plan behind the budget of the Right Party Government, and later the budgetary agreement with the Left Party and the Christian People's Party: strengthening the measures that help people to get into work, strengthening the measures that make it possible for more people to stand on their own feet, strengthening the measures that make more people realize their dreams. And if we're going to get to that, we need a work life that's versatile, that has room for those that aren't necessarily completely A4. We know that employment has changed significantly over many years. The traditional heavy industry where you worked more standardised is much less today. We have a lot more so-called free professions, and that is also an advantage, because it means that we now have a working life that is better suited to many people, such as women. have different disabilities, which we've discussed a lot here in this room. However, it is also important that legislation and instruments are adapted to this. But even though the Progress Party is a strong supporter of the workline and to facilitate as much work as possible, we are also crystal clear that we should have a good safety net that captures those who fall through for various reasons – people who need a little help and support and assistance to achieve their goals, in order to have the opportunity to get out of work. We choose that safety net to strengthen in this budget. I think everyone initially agrees that we should have a safety net, but the Progress Party does not want a safety net that is like a net that makes that if you first fall outside, you get caught in the system. We want a safety net to help each one get out of the safety net and to be able to stand on their own feet as far as possible. That is why I am pleased that this budget has a social profile in many areas, and we are making it clear to those most in need of help. I am also pleased that the government has now made it possible for the instruments to be adapted to the individual, because no human being is equal. Then it is important that we have tools to see the individual, what to do to help the individual – whether there are wage subsidies, whether there are interpreting services, etc., it is a wide range – and then it is important that we have tools to see the individual’s needs, opportunities and desires. The most important fight against poverty, which has come up with many beautiful words and dreams and visions, is to help people to support themselves. And then the line of work is important. But it doesn't help to talk nice about the workline if we don't have the tools around. Then I am glad that the government is now strengthening Nav, who is going to be our spearhead to help people get back to work or help people who are about to fall out of work, to remain there. Then it is important for the expert committee that is set up to look at how we can actually improve Nav, because in the Progress Party we do not, as the Labour Party did in its time, put the systems over the human beings. For us, the systems have to be there to help individuals, and then it's important that we actually dare to have a critical review of all the tools we have, to see if they work, instead of always having to defend the systems. The fact that working is always more profitable than going to social security is an important principle. It may be uncomfortable to take that kind of debate, but I am glad that we now have a government that actually dares to take those debates even though they may be unpleasant sometimes. I am therefore also pleased with the good arrangement we had when it came to the famous children's supplement, together with the Left and Christian People's Party. We're now securing a child supplement that means that those who need it the most will still be able to get it. At the same time, we ensure the working line by getting no one over 95 pst. of what they had in the past. But if we are to have a good working life, which also has room for everyone, it is important that we have a decent and safe working life. We know that Norwegian working life is essentially decent and safe for most people. But we also have many examples of incidents in working life with unprofessional actors, which include: the trade union movement played an important role in the care of workers. But at the same time, we know that last year's organizational degree was down to 51.7 p.m., and it's been falling for years. This means that approx. half of the country's workers are outside the security and protection that trade unions can often provide. Then I come back to the question of finding a national minimum wage. The progress party is positive for such an investigation. We believe it is important that all workers should have a protection, not just the half that is trade-unioned. That is why I am addressing the proposal that the Progress Party and the Left are behind in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox But if you want a good working life, it doesn't help us to decide, as politicians or the Stortinget, that we should have jobs, because politicians don't create jobs; business creates jobs. Politicians are facilitating business, and when we talk about labour and social policy, we must therefore not see in isolation in our budget area. When the government now strengthens education, it strengthens the further training of teachers, it is important. We are improving the framework conditions for business – I hear that it is being criticised here today that we are doing better for Norwegian business – and we are doing better to facilitate and strengthen the infrastructure in Norway, which benefits both residents and businesses. The fact that we reduce taxes and taxes for people most, but also for business, simplifying and modernising business, is important. So the Progress Party is pleased with this budget, we are pleased with the budgetary agreement. We believe that we have got a good budget that has a good combination: incentives to help people out in work, that people can use their ability to work, while at the same time we have a good safety net that we've strengthened, so that those who fall outside should have a safe, good and decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e465	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e471	It's interesting to see the right-wing representative Wiborg talking about the policy and direction of the Progress Party and the government. From Wiborgs, both in the media and in this room, there is a lot of hint about what can be the next move for the government. For example, Wiborg told Nettavisen on 31 October that he wanted to introduce one or two withdrawal days in case of illness. He more than suggested that an important reason for the short-term absence is that people are guilty of being drunk, nurturing and exploiting the system. I am confident that Wiborg will pursue a knowledge-based policy, and for those of us who do not belong to the Institute for the Advance Surgery, it is interesting to hear what kind of research the representative bases his or her statements on, what makes this work, and whether this is something that the government is going to agree to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e478	If the representative Bjørdal had read the whole article, he would have clearly seen that I was quite clear that the Advance Party promised the voters that today's sick pay scheme would last for the current parliamentary term. The representative, Bjørdal, may have a different understanding of election promises than the Progress Party has, but the Progress Party has the intention to follow the election promises, so there will be no changes in the sickness pay scheme during the current period. What the Progress Party dares to do is to be a party that dares to open up debates and discussions, because we believe that the best policy will come about by discussing different points of view. Then our national meeting will take a decision before the next major elections. I note that there are also representatives within the Workers' Party who have been asked to assess the qualifying days, but this is not the current policy of the Progress Party or the Government during the current period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e485	The representative Wiborg gave the impression – and said it quite straightforwardly – that the government is betting the most on those who need the most help. It's a statement that doesn't have credibility among most people, and that's not unnatural. At the same time, the representative said that we have had a working life today that is better suited for more people with disabilities. But the situation is that there are more and more partial job opportunities outside the labour market, despite the fact that we have some easy jobs in a physical sense that should be better adapted to those with partial working capacity. My question is: will the government's budget mean that there will be fewer partial working capacity outside the labour market next year? It is a demanding question, but it should be possible to answer yes or no in its conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e492	Like the representative Lundtigen, I don't think we politicians should predict the effect of what will happen in a month. But yes, the government is planning to get more people out of work today, into the labour market. I record that Lundtigen and the Zenterpartie want to continue the policy that has been pursued, which has actually led us to have over 600 000 people of working age who are out of work. That policy wants the representative Lundteg to continue. I am therefore pleased that we have got a new government that wants to make the door to work wider and wider and ensure that more people who today never get the opportunity to put their foot in the workplace, now have the opportunity to put their feet inside, show up and get the CV built up. That is why I am pleased that we are modernising the Working Environment Act, so that we can also have a work environment law adapted to the new professions in which the representative Lundtägen is involved. Because when society changes, the instruments also have to change. That's what this government wants, but it doesn't want the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e497	The representative Wiborg talks about the workline, but suggests cutting the transition benefit, as we know, reduces the child supplement, so that 4,500 kids get less living for, and will introduce a blind duty of activity for social welfare recipients. It looks more like a poverty line, you ask me. My question is: Does the representative Wiborg think that the way to strengthen the workline is to cut payments and combine them with coercion against the most poor and vulnerable?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e504	I believe that the representative Bergstø is right about the problem. SV is opposed to innovation. They want to continue the policy that has led to so many being excluded from the labour market. As you know, SV was going to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. They couldn't. They didn't talk about it. I think it is important to remember that people who fall out of work for different reasons, people who are in poverty, are also people who deserve to be treated with respect. The representative Bergstø is under attack because we want to introduce an activity obligation that will actually give people who receive social assistance, dignity, make sure they have something meaningful to fill the day with, make sure they can get something on the CV. It's taking people seriously and not giving up people and pass on them, which obviously the Socialist Left Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e511	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e514	One of the most important tasks we have as politicians is to create a sustainable welfare society – a society that allocates resources to everyone who needs it today, but also has future generations in mind. This means that we have to fight to create new jobs so that more people can get into the workplace, that we have to secure jobs, and that we have to create an inclusive working life, so that you can stay in work for as long as possible. The Christian People's Party also promises a different perspective every time we have these debates, and that is the importance of a well-functioning society in other areas. If one succeeds in creating jobs or creating an inclusive working life or ensuring that people come to work, it's about a safe growth. It's about well-functioning families where kids get safe and well-grown, a good welfare society with volunteering and a safe and good school, so they're equipped for the future. That's why we're very happy with the budgetary agreement we made with the government parties and the left, where we strengthen family protection to help the families that start to struggle, where we get more early work in school, and we get more teachers for the younger students. Students and young people must be equipped for life, and they must be equipped for work. Another important field for the Christian People's Party is to target efforts against the people who have fallen out of work. That is why we were satisfied with the current year when we got 3,000 new action places. For 2015, we received an average of 500 new job opportunities for people with disabilities who need help and assistance to return. We also got 200 VTA places, which we're happy with. We are going to continue the fight to combat poverty and help the families in poverty – the kids in poverty. Work is the key to making it permanent out of poverty. But then we also know that not everyone will be able to work. That is why I am pleased with the malpractice reform which is really also under way and which will be introduced from 1 January. We know that one out of three are capable of combining social security with working something. The new malpractice reform adopted by a unanimous increase in 2012 also facilitates the best possible combination of work and social security. We are very pleased that we were able to care for the need-tested child supplement for disabled people. We've been busy ensuring a system that hits those who need it the most. Therefore, the needs tests were important. Then we were concerned about securing a system that can stand – which is permanent. We know what kind of debate it was about the children's supplement. That's why we also believe that we've got a solution that guarantees both legitimacy for the system and that it can last longer. I think this is a solution that the Storting will finally settle down with. We are also pleased that we were able to take care of the transitional benefit, and that it should still be for three years, where there is a clear requirement for activity, but where there is also an opportunity to fight through education, or to fight into working life when one is a lone parent. The budgetary agreement is full of good measures for those who need it the most. We're doing e.g. children's playgrounds cheaper for households with income below NOK 473 000. We get extended free core time for 4-5 year-olds. We've given 220 million. more to municipalities in order to provide resource-intensive services, which is very important when you also think in a human dignity perspective. We've got 100 million. extra NOK to work in the municipalities. We've got $30 million. to non-governmental organisations on drugs and psychiatry. We've strengthened child protection by at least 40 million. kr. We have 20 million. kr extra in a grant scheme to combat child poverty. We have millions of holiday deals, and we have 10 million. kr to disabled persons. This list could have been longer, and this is in addition to what was inside from the government, which was also good. That is why we believe that the conciliation and budget we are adopting today is a budget that both helps create jobs, helps people to stay in jobs, and helps more people get into work. At the same time, we care for those people who cannot work and who are therefore given targeted measures to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e531	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e534	As I mentioned in my post, there are a number of items – including children’s items – that have still been cut in the government budget on a proposal from the Christian People’s Party and that have not been put into place again. But I will leave it now to the advantage of congratulating, first of all, the Christian People's Party and the Left, on the fact that the children's supplement has been limited for the disabled. It was one of the most ugly, most dramatic, unsocial cuts proposed by the government in the state budget. So the Christian People's Party and the Left have now negotiated the solution that only the Right and the Advance Party were for when the Reform was actually being treated, but it is nevertheless better than the government suggested in this round. They write in the notes that they're starting from the Brochmann Committee. There are very many of the conditions in the Brochmann Committee's proposal for the children's supplement that have not been included now, and then I ask: When that child supplement is cut – we vote against it, but it is nevertheless adopted – will the representative at least ensure that the Brochmann Committee is followed up to a greater extent than is now the basis of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e541	Thank you for the question. I have to say that, when we were in the final stages of the reform, my experience of the Right and the Advance Party was that they wanted the solution they presented in the budget agreement, that they wanted standardisation, which the Brochmann Committee also points out very clearly, and which others have wanted. In the case of the child supplement for disabled people, there are some dilemmas. There are some arguments for, and there are some clear arguments against. I believe that it is rather clear against, precisely because you would have been unfairly cut for some people who need it a lot, and who would probably never get out of work. Therefore, we will carry out the needs tests and set a ceiling so that it won't be that if you try to work, it won't pay off. That is why I believe that the system that is there is good. And then Andersen's representative has a very good point: it's also important to take care of the second part that if you make changes, you have to have more targeted actions against the poorest. In my list that I read up here towards the end, some of them are taken care of, but I can also promise the representative that I will fight further to get even more measures for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e551	The Christian People's Party is clear that they want a more flexible working life, while at the same time having a safe and decent working life. The party of progress, the Christian People's Party and the government are clear that permanent employment should be the main rule. At the same time, I note that the Christian People's Party has shown some scepticism about the government's proposal that came now on Friday, about a moderate embellishment of temporary employment, which can help to further the door and help more people get a foot within. But at the same time, I know that the Christian People's Party shares the government's ambitions in this field, so my question is: What does the representative Robstad think is important to help people from social security to secure jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e558	Thank you for that question. What I think should be a common goal for all the four parties that now manage the majority in common is that we are able to succeed in including even more people in the world of work. The Christian People's Party has the belief that being able to be employed temporarily has a positive effect. It gives you an opportunity to show that you can do something, it could be a way in. But we have no blind belief that temporary employment is the only solution, and I would also warn against temporary employment if it turns out that it is to replace permanent jobs. The goal must be to get more permanent jobs, and then you can go there through temporary employment. That is why I am going to be constructive in the future negotiations, which I expect will come. But we believe in the other measures as well. In what contained an inclusive working life in the rest of the proposition, there was good action. I also believe that the Storting needs to look at more areas of action — but also better areas of action — and shorter waiting time, so that you get in faster and get help, because we know that the longer people are out of work, the harder it is to get them back there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e565	The representative, Ropstad, now said that what someone here has done was a dilemma for the Christian People's Party. In the past it has been said that it was the Christian People's Party's principal solution that one should get a curtailment at 95 p.m. For me, it is a cross of thought that those who, after a long treatment, are granted disability benefit – and it is not easy – while having low income in the family as a whole and more children, will get a cut in their child supplement. Why is it so important for the Christian People's Party to run the principle that it should pay to work so far – something that one does not do in other matters, for example. in connection with the AFP – that it should hit the most vulnerable? I see the dilemma. Can the representative expand the dilemma?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e570	When I elaborate on the dilemma, I think it might go first and foremost on what the government suggested when it comes to a standardized supplement, because I think it's where a first and foremost more can talk about a workline. The solution that the Christian People's Party has now fought through with a ceiling of 95 p.m., I have no faith in will contribute in the sense that very many choose work before social security. I have no faith in that. For this reason, I would rather, in terms of the dilemma or arguments for and against the line of work – if one was blindly occupied by the line of work – be totally opposed to standardisation. I am, as I said instead, concerned that it has some unfortunate rashes, and it can avoid you with the need test. But by setting a roof, I believe that a guarantee of the legitimacy of the social security system, because I think that's important, and then I think it'll be a permanent arrangement. As this has been a system that has been debated, and Lundtigen himself knows what it was like in the previous round, I fear this is a debate that can come over and over again. Now I think we've got a permanent arrangement that, after all, protects most of the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e575	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e578	I would first like to promote the proposal that the Central Party is alone in the vote. The centre party works for a Norway — another country — which is not maritime enough. There is a parole that is put to a large test, not least being marine enough in an international context today. What is at the heart of the different countries is economic complacency between people, which is a maritime social goal of the Center Party. It is ensured through work, labour income and small income differences. It is ensured through taxes according to ability. It is ensured through a safety net in case of illness, disability and unemployment for people who are struggling. Today's budget debate concerns work and safety networks, i.e. the responsibilities of the Labour and Social Committee. The Norwegian labour market is rapidly changing in the negative direction of many. It's one of the most important things in the future, the evolution of working life. Now we need to have a debate on the principle of the freest possible immigration of labour within the EEA area, from countries with around 10 p.m. of the Norwegian salary level. Some serve cheap services with this system, but more and more losses. This weakens pay and work conditions for more and more industries, which we in Norway are totally dependent on the inclusion of competent young people. Furthermore, it also weakens the ability of the many people with partial working capacity to enter the labour market. Access to the labour market is becoming increasingly difficult. With tighter time and direction towards increased unemployment, even stronger instruments are needed to compensate for the developments described here. Therefore, the Central Party is working to terminate the EEA Agreement and introduce a trade agreement with a regulated movement of labour immigration. We are very much in favour of strong trade union organisations that ensure a balance between the power of the employer and the power of the employee. We are very much in favour of action plans against social dumping and the publication of collective bargaining agreements. And – as I said – those with partial working capacity need to get more into the labour market by providing permanent or fixed-term pay subsidies to employers who want to hire those people, so that it is profitable for social employers to provide their jobs here. What is otherwise central to the setting is the Labour Inspectorate. We need more supervision in practice. The developments that we have had in the last 10 to 15 years with more paper surveillance have proved to be too low a risk for those who cut within the area of occupational safety and health. We must have greater efforts against those who are unprofessional and who are engaged in social dumping. It is therefore important that the government launch joint actions between labour inspectorates, tax authorities and the police. This cannot be stressed strongly enough, here the challenges are great for negative developments for both employees and the serious employers. It becomes more difficult and difficult for the serious employers to act in such a market that is at the edge of what is both the law and the Norwegian labour tradition. So the center part goes in to allocate 75 million. SEK more to the Labour Inspectorate and SEK 3 million. kr to designated regional protection ombudsmen to get this interaction between trade union movement and employers, which has such a great tradition because both parties are interested in a common cause, namely tidy and decent conditions in their working life. The centre party is very clear that one should not change the Working Environment Act in view of temporary employment. It's been a flag case, and the Central Party has secured a majority for it in the past. We will continue to work to secure a majority because temporary employment is what you use to take up jobs in a company – it is not part of normal employment. We reject the minimum wage, and we are very concerned about improving the safety net. Therefore, in the case of the child supplement, we're going to go against setting a limit of 95 pst, because the families that are in such a situation are in an exceptional situation and have to be treated specifically, so that they don't get worse than today. Furthermore, we are pleased that the transitional benefit is deferred. We are pleased that the income limit for sick pay and parental pay has been drawn. We are pleased with the improvement for the marine operator, but overall: the government prioritizes the weaker ones, and that is a fundamental error.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e601	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Will the representative also address the proposal of the Central Party together with SV in case No. Two?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e604	All suggestions are addressed, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e609	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has addressed the proposals referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e614	There is no doubt that the Centre Party is occupied by young unemployed people. My question is about getting young unemployed into the workplace. Sometimes it turns out that the threshold for entry is quite high, and the government has suggested several things to make it easier, among other things. temporary additions and activity obligations. My question is: what proposal is the representative of Lundtigen thinking about getting more young unemployed into the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e619	We come later, in a forthcoming debate, into a matter where there are just questions about the group of young people between the ages of 20 and 25 who have neither school nor work. What the central party that has promoted and which several parties agree with is that we set up a system of so-called apprentices, where both private and public enterprises involve young people in normal employment – an apprentice in a way like an apprentice, and he provides with his ability under the assistance of an employer. And then you get a gradual increase in income because you're becoming more and more competent, and so you get a kind of education through work. It may be a good response for this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e625	I understand that the representative Lundtigen is really busy fighting social dumping and making sure that there are equivalent conditions in the world of work. That's good. But I understand that the representative Lundtigen and the Central Party's principal instrument for this, cf. Budgetary adjustment and cf. the post now, is to terminate Norway’s main agreement with the rest of the world, the EEA Agreement. Fortunately, it's quite a long time until that proposal gets multiples in this room. Another proposal that is a little closer to getting multiples in this room is the Left's proposal to abolish the statutory minimum national wage. The Central Party has opposed this in its configuration. My question is, what's the reason for that? Because what's being referred to is that you don't want to cancel the EEA Agreement. It probably won't happen in a while. In the meantime, we find that too many people live on too low wages in outsourced industries. Having a national floor that will help those who are the most delayed, we see it as a targeted tool. What is the problem with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e632	According to the opinion of the Centre Party, minimum wages are a crisis response; there is a crisis response when there is an imbalance in the labour market between those who demand labour and those who provide their labour. We see that imbalance, not least in Germany and the United Kingdom, where one has introduced minimum wages. This has led to major discussions on the level of the whole, leading to a fundamental discussion on whether it is the right instrument in relation to the imbalance. The central part of the position is: in the case of the imbalance, it is the root of the other one that must be grasped. And the root of the duck is a freest movement of labour from land that has 10 pst. of compensation of employees in Norway. Everyone understands that it gives an imbalance. We have to take care of things at the root, and therefore it is replacing the EEA Agreement with a trade agreement, so that we can regulate the movement of labour. It's the essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e639	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e642	The challenges facing the welfare state are becoming major in the future. We could read this in the perspective message from the red-green government. And few places is this challenge more clearly than in the part of the state budget that we are dealing with today. It's enough just to look at increasing pension costs, so have a look at how it's going to be required in the future. If we're to succeed in maintaining a solid social security network, we're totally dependent on the fact that working pays off, that more people come to work, and that more people are in work. The state budget has been given some hard publicity because of its social profile. The left initially shared part of the criticism of the government's proposal, but after the budgetary agreement between the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party came into effect, in our view, it is a good, forward-looking and social budget that we adopt today. From the left side, the priorities should not be surprising; they are the same as they have been for many years, working for poor and disadvantaged children. Through the negotiations, we have raised that area in the budget by about 600 million. kr. This includes: on a strong focus on childcare, on drug addiction, on mental health, on child protection and on schemes for children in reception of asylum. In the field of this committee there has been a particular amount of discussion about the child supplement for the disabled. Here, Left believes that we have found a good solution, where we take care of two important considerations, the fact that it is always worth working, and the fact that social arrangements are going to be noisy and need-tested for those who need it. With this, we secure the children's supplement as a still tested system, but we'll see a roof on the 95 pst overall performance. on the basis of income, so that those who try to work do not come out worse than those who accept social security. This is also something that both the minority and the majority in the disability pension selection considered a reasonable solution, regardless of whether the supplement should have been standardised or not. And I believe – like the representative Robstad – that this is a system that will stand. It's important for all the kids and families that it's for. At the same time as we've made sure to correct some of the things in the budget that from the left's point of view were not good enough, we're getting extra bets on, among other things. kindergartens. In the left we are happy that we now also get greater differentiation, so that those who have poor money can get cheaper kindergartens. Rather, those who have better advice will have to live with the fact that they have to contribute a little more. Socially supersampling, we call it. We are particularly pleased from the left's point of view that we are finally getting a boost for the social conditions of self-employed and entrepreneurs. We don't have an abundance of people in Norway who want to take a risk, start their own workplaces and maybe get lucky with it, and add more -- especially when it's not women. After the Left's view, it's important that you have good social arrangements for those who will try to follow a good idea. The fact that we get equal dishes for care money is good. We are also pleased that the Center Party has found reason to support it in the setting. Time goes by, but I will also come to the Left's proposal to abolish the statutory national minimum wage, which is being discussed in this debate. Unfortunately, the majority have rejected that proposal, but we are pleased with the support of the Progress Party in the Committee. We're all busy fighting social dumping. Having a statutory national minimum wage can be one of the most targeted tools we can draw from the Toolbox if we dare to use it. In most European countries, there is a minimum level of what is a legal salary — a floor that no one can go under. I think it's strange that those parties that usually don't have a problem with detailing almost all the other aspects of a work relationship through law, apparently think it should be fully legal to have an unreasonably low salary level. The labour market has also changed somewhat, for example. as a result of the EEA Agreement. Most of it's for the good, but something that we've traditionally done here in Norway, under pressure. The fact that we've had a publicization of pay is a clear sign that something has to change. Having a national level, which you cannot go under, is a natural next step, which includes: also the main organisation Working in the hearing was very positive and wanted to pay off. The same thing was YS, which is essentially opposite, but which still looked at this as interesting. I don't understand what a knowledge is afraid to come out in such an arrangement, so I look forward to coming back to this proposal on a later occasion. I'm sure we'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e671	The left is for the minimum wage and stands with the Progress Party, which is actually against the recommendations of its own State Council. The rest of us are betting on the law on public relations. The main reason why the rest of the Committee is opposed is the experience that 23 EU countries already have. They show that, if there is a targeted measure, the minimum wage is a targeted measure to reduce even lower wages. We demand knowledge, says Rotevatn. So we have that knowledge. In countries that have introduced minimum wages and salaries, the lowest wages and salaries are somewhere between 30 pst. and 50 pst. of average wages and salaries. We know that. How has the Left intend to avoid this becoming the situation in Norway too?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e678	We're going to avoid that by asking for a statement. We're not saying that this is a solution we're going to introduce here and now from the Storing's side. There's too much to consider. There are things that distinguish the Norwegian labour market from the labour market in many other European countries. Then there's reason to go into it carefully through a knowledge-based distribution. I don't understand what kind of knowledge there is in the Workers' Party is afraid to show up in such an arrangement. So we've already gone away from what has traditionally been the Norwegian free-wage model, by introducing public sector governance in some sectors. Having a national, statutory minimum wage is, in my view, a natural next step, as an alternative or as a supplement to it. We need to be clear that when we see more cases in the media and other places, e.g. this summer about people who get paid 30 kroner per hour, I don't think there is anything that this hall thinks is acceptable. Then maybe some people in this room should consider doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e685	So, as I said in the introduction to my first question to the representative Rotevatn, we have the necessary knowledge because 23 other countries have made their experiences, and those experiences are quite consistent. But my next question is: What level does the Left believe that a Norwegian minimum wage scheme should be on? It's 30-50 pst. of the average salary a decent level, or does the Left wish to raise the level?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e692	It shouldn't be left here and now, for the simple reason that we're asking for a statement. And once again, I don't understand what a knowledge in the Workers' Party is afraid to come through that kind of knowledge sharing. I also thought it was interesting that the employee organisation YS in the hearing we had in the committee, even though they primarily didn't want minimum pay, yet it seemed exciting to get more knowledge on the table and see many of the same challenges as the Left sees. We have some challenges in the Norwegian economy now, where we unfortunately see that many workers, who are not being treated well enough, can be affected, and we see that people are missing the job. Then I am so glad that we are adopting a budget that is the future of the workers and the business community's behalf. I didn't think it was a good idea in this situation to vote for the Labour Party budget, which would lead to solid tax incentives for value creation and businesses of 10 billion. kr. Or it was $13. Do you really want to delete this item? Anyway, it's a very bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e701	Reasons for poverty are primarily away from work, poor Norwegian knowledge and possible disability. Much of the poverty in families affects children, and the government has first in the budget and then in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left said that we should have a reinforced action plan against child poverty. For us in the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, it's not just about getting up with measures ourselves, the measures that we're making up. Now SV had to apologize to the poor of the country – after one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight years in government. What measures does the Left consider that we can agree on together in order to overcome child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e710	Now we have some things already in the budget – we are pleased about that – but it is clear that we need to move on. The reality is that there are about 78 000 poor children in Norway. There has been an increase in the last few years. It's serious. We also see that poverty has changed somewhat. Where the typical poor person before was a minimum pensioner, we now see that more are families with children and not least families with children with non-ethnic Norwegian origins. From the left side is one of the most important things to bet on kindergartens. We are pleased that we are raising the number of kindergartens in this budget. That's where we have to move on. We should also move on when it concerns income differentiation here. We also believe that we must dare to look at perhaps the most important system for families with children, which has not been adjusted since 1996. The reason for that is, of course, that everyone gets this, that it's a flat social benefit. Differentiation more where we think is a good step on the road to greater social exclusion, as well as all the other important things we have to do to help children out of poverty – it's early effort or to bet on schools, health sisters and mental health work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e720	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e723	I want to start by recording SV's suggestions. Norway is once again the world’s best country to live in. We're number two on the list of the world's happiest country, we're the third best country for women and the second best country to be a mother in. In addition, we are among the top five in terms of the lowest unemployment rate. And Norway is the only country in the Western world where the economic differences have been reduced in recent years. This isn't random. There is no law of nature behind it, this is political choice. I fear that we will have other places when the status is made up in the years that are coming, because I fear that the everyday life of people here in the country will be less equal, less secure and less fair. The government has provided a budget that will increase the differences between people and shift power in the wrong direction in terms of both sex, class and geography. Cut-off in the rules of leave does not help unemployment – on the contrary. Cutbacks in paper and more to cash support make society less equal, and cut social security cars to lone parents and to people who have the least, make society less fair. Child supplementation for disabled people with low performance is weakened. These are real kids, 4,500 in the number, who need both diapers, bread slice butter and new football shoes when spring comes. I spoke here during the day with a mother who told me how difficult it was to do the Friday trade when the kid wanted both brown cheese and Donald, and she could only afford one of the parts. Being poor notices extra good in a society where many have a lot, and where you have a policy how much more to get. The same money can never be two places at the same time. If you give tax credits to the richest, it has to be taken from one place. This government has made a clear choice. We see the outlines of a social direction in which each should be his own success blackmailed, but the prerequisites for being able to forge are still so inwardly biased. It's a society where trade unions and the organization probably have open doors in front of power, but still meet deaf ears. It is a society where profit-driven services are emerging, where the local economy is weakened, tender rounds are pressed forward, professional rights are being tried to deteriorate, and gender equality policy seems to be out of sight and out of mind. We see the contours of a Norway changing. SV fights for social development in the opposite direction. We want to share the goods and fight class divisions. That is why we are promoting a policy of redistribution. People who get good help and economic security when they experience sickness, unemployment and life's difficulties also manage better to get out of the problems. We want to increase child-responsiveness – especially for families with many children, and for lonely dependants – and we want to remove the opportunities for municipalities to shorten social assistance against child-responsiveness. We want a youth guarantee that works. Therefore, SV is in favour of a work line that has a value, and is a guarantee that young people are given the right to work measures or other help to get to work. This is particularly important now that we see more people experiencing uncertainties about their own work situation. There is therefore a need for more security-providing action sites and a safety-providing regulatory framework. We want a good code, so that people can keep their jobs in unsafe times while businesses do not need to be emptied of knowledge and experience. SV wants a good working life, where people have a wage to live off and a working day to live with. Full and full positions must be the general rule. The non-worker must be safeguarded by the community and guaranteed income. Still, women have less power than men. Women own less and earn less, and the pay gap seems to increase. It is an important political responsibility to do something about this injustice. Women's participation in the labour market is the basis for autonomy and economic freedom. Then it is not useful with cash support. Leisure and work should also be distributed as fairly as possible. Today, men work overtime and women part-time. SV will have a working life where more people participate and where differences in power and opportunities between women and men are reduced. We want new experience with reduced working hours. Shorter normal working days will enable more people to work full time, while providing more leisure time, better quality of life, possibly better health and more equality. Therefore, involuntary part-time must be combated. SV not only sees the welfare state as a safety net, but as a prerequisite for a good life. For the large majority, freedom lies in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e751	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e756	The government has warned that if those receiving such benefits have health, they will be subject to conditions of activity in order to receive social assistance. Some municipalities already do it with good effect, and the government will have this scheme throughout the country. I have understood that SV is against this, and I wonder why. Does SV not agree that it is reasonable to work for the funds you receive, if you are able to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e761	I'm glad the representative addresses the question. SV believes it is reasonable to work, but it is primarily reasonable to be in meaningful activity. That's why we want arrangements where the individual is seen, where you get help in your Nav office, instead of having a blind duty of activity that acts as moralism against the poor. We also fear that you will be assigned tasks for less payment than those that are currently carrying out the tasks get. I've been working on Nav myself. I've been a social worker and I've met people who are in a difficult life situation, and who need arrangements that suit them. Then I fear a blind duty of activity most of all, because I think it will be a hindrance to finding good solutions for the individual human being.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e768	The Socialist Left has again begun to talk about distribution policy and poverty, and that is, I say, liberating. We all remember that they were going to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke, which they couldn't do. The Socialist Left Party has also talked a lot about taxes and taxes here today, and instead of giving tax relief to the rich, the money should be used to help those who need it most. At the same time, the Socialist Left Party has focused a lot on reducing the tax for some, but what they forget to say is that they increase the fees so significantly that the individual will pay much more in taxes and taxes. But it is a surprise that the Socialist Left in its draft budget reduces the dividend tax on dividends. So my question to the representative Bergstø is, how many poor people will benefit from a reduced dividend tax on dividends?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e777	Under the red-green government, differences in Norway were reduced for the first time in 20 years. I'm proud of that. The only ones who have reason to be ashamed on behalf of the poor are those who are not trying to do anything about their life situation. SV works morning, dinner and evening, day and night, to change the power conditions of society, so that everyone can stand in their full length, and for people to have bread on the table and a good working situation in their lives. That is why it is absolutely essential that the welfare systems we were involved in strengthening remain valid in people's everyday lives. Otherwise we know that the differences will increase. VG had a headline that SV gives tax credits to the ‘most people’, so there is no doubt that those with the lowest income will benefit from our taxes – unlike the government, which promotes the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e784	The Christian People's Party, together with SV, has fought an expedient battle for the need-tested children's supplement. That is why we cooperated well in the previous period as some forces tried to do something about it. Therefore, the Christian People's Party was very pleased that we were able to attend to the need-tested child supplement through the budgetary conciliation now. I have to admit that I may have been somewhat disappointed by the frontal attacks that I have experienced from SV in several debates that we, and others in the Chamber, have had about this after the budgetary conciliation. After all, we had at least 28,000 children. So it's right – as SV says – that someone will be hit, because we're going to put a roof: you shouldn't be able to get more than 95 pst. of what you had before you were disabled, paid out by both social security and child allowances. I understand that you can criticize this. But a bit of the challenge is that there are many other low-paid and poor people in this country — there are others who work for 200,000–250,000 kroner per year, who do not receive child supplements. Is it that way to understand that SV also wants to provide children's supplements to other low pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e793	People who are at work have completely different opportunities to increase their income than people who are disabled. Being lazy is about having a health that makes you very limited. It's hard to get there, and we're going to have a lot of respect for not choosing one's own health. The reason why SV criticizes the solution is that it is unsocial in its form. 95 pst. of 300000 kroner is something completely different than 95 pst. of 500000 kroner. To say that you should never have the opportunity to earn more on social security than on work means good desktop management, but bad practice, because I have to admit that there are very, very few cases that would earn more on social security than on work. But because of the very few cases you go into an arrangement. I am glad that the Christian People's Party has come some way. There's a big difference between 32,000 kids who would initially be poorer, and 4,000. It will be noticed in people's lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e802	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e806	It has been interesting both to follow and to listen to the debate so far, and I am convinced that it will also be interesting to follow the rest of the debate. Let me start by saying that, as others have also pointed out, there are some black clouds in the horizon. This is why it is important to pursue a policy that makes society competitive, which ensures adequate sustainability and not least equips Norway for the future. Therefore, it is important for the government to establish a policy that continues to lead to high employment and low unemployment. It is important to ensure that the holes in the social security network are sealed. I would also like to start by thanking the Left and Christian People's Party, which has contributed to a budget that has improved in many areas. For the government it is important that we have a safe, flexible and family-friendly working life with room for all, and if we are to ensure a safe, flexible and family-friendly working life, it is important to take the fight against the unprofessional seriously. It is important to hit hard on those who are trying to be cellars in our working life. It is important to increase efforts to combat organised labour-life crime. That's why I'm glad that the government is now trebled the efforts in terms of supervision. 16 000 inspections will be carried out this year. More unannounced supervision than ever before will be carried out next year, where the police, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate join forces to hunt for the unprofessional. I am pleased that the government prioritises this high. I am also pleased that the fight against the unprofessional is being addressed by looking at how to expand the public service system. Today we have a generalisation system for the construction industry, the yard industry, the cleaning industry, the agricultural industry and the horticultural industry. However, as early as November, it was extended to the fishing industry, and it is on the steps to extend it to the electric industry and the road transport sector. It shows that this government is taking the necessary steps and doing wise things to maintain a serious working life, and we are also doing this in good dialogue with the social partners. It is also important to facilitate a working life where you can include more people who are out of work. That is why I am pleased that this government is increasing its efforts in terms of action places for those with disabilities, by 700 more than the Stoltenberg government submitted in 2014. I am also pleased that this government is strengthening its efforts and releasing more social entrepreneurs to help and qualify more people into the labour market, so that the total effort is greater than we have in recent years. The social entrepreneurs do an important, right and good job to succeed. I am also pleased that, last Friday, we made a proposal with a message part, where we come up with one of the biggest reforms in labour market policy, where we do what this room has pointed out year after year – that we need to get a simplification of measures, ensure that people get faster help, better help, and not get involved in an endless round of events in a system of measures. So we also halve the number of measures. It is not always the number of places of action in itself that is the most important thing — it is how well you can help people who are out of work to get the most within the areas of action you have. This government is taking good steps to secure this. I am also glad that when I was in Namsos last Wednesday, I was given the opportunity to meet Hassan, an immigrant boy from Afghanistan who came to Norway alone. He had no one, could not speak, was illiterate, had no family around him. He got help in an uplifting car that is operated and owned by a better-known DDE-vocalist, Bjarne Brøndbo. This government is now proposing targeted measures relating to wage subsidies, lasting wage subsidies for those at risk of losing their jobs. It is better and easier to make use of the temporary business environment. We are proposing a new inclusion grant and a new and better organisation grant to enable people with disabilities to be given more opportunities by spending their money on organization and equipment that enables individuals to stand in the workplace, rather than providing an operating grant to a company. There are measures that will help out-of-work people into the labour market. I'm also pleased that we've put in place a SUA office in Bergen, which also means that you'll be positive to recruit the right and qualified workforce from abroad in a faster and better way, while being an important instrument in the fight against social dumping. With regard to our welfare systems, it is also important that we have sustainable, good and safe welfare arrangements for the future. I am therefore pleased that you now have a disability problem with a child supplement that puts a roof of 95 pst. It also establishes what the government has been concerned about, namely the need to have labour incentives, to pay off the actual ability to work and to try out the labour market. We know that today already one in three out of the 310,000 disabled people has a foot within the workplace. Either you've graduated a disability pension, or you're going to apply the 1G free income limit. I want these people to realize the dream and use even more of their working capacity, and it also wants this government. It's good politics, it's good for society, and it's good for the individual. I am also pleased that we introduce activity requirements for social welfare recipients. The worst thing you can meet people with is indifference. I want to meet people with respect and take people seriously. That is what this proposal does. I am also pleased that this government strengthens the functional assistance system, which allows more disabled people to participate in the labour market. I am pleased that this government is now making job interpreters a permanent scheme, not just a pilot scheme, which it has been for seven years under the previous government. Earlier this year, we met at Master Green two deaf voice that is now better followed up with a job interpreter, which allows them to use their working skills in a good, correct and safe way in the future. I'm glad that this government is putting in place. I am pleased that this government has set up an expert committee to conduct a comprehensive review of Nav. I am also pleased that SV raises the question of Nav ombudsman in one of his representative proposals, but I also think it is important to let the expert committee look closely at what models, what ways to meet it. In Sweden, what is called Jungelhelpen, which helps people through a squirmed code. Maybe that's the way to do it. Maybe it's the Oslo model that's the way to do it. There may be good ways, but this government is committed to raising user perspectives, lifting user influence and opportunities also into our work and welfare management. I am also pleased that this government has strengthened guidance and interpreter for deaf blind people in the municipalities, as we promised in the election campaign. I am also pleased that we are in the process of doing so, and during 2015 we will come back with a strategy to address the issue of child poverty. Then I want to say two words at the end. I am also pleased that we have received support from this government to look at the transitional regime and come back with a separate case on it. I think that's a good way to do it. I think it's important to be able to help people to experience freedom faster by being self-sustaining with their own income than what we've been able to do now. I am also pleased that we have put in place a good transitional arrangement for the new unfettered reform and the new tax rules that will ensure that those who are at risk of losing from 6,000 to 100,000 will be secured through a good transitional arrangement that we have achieved in our agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. This government is taking responsibility. Finally, I would like to say something about the permitting code. The Permitting Code works. The last unemployment rates compared with the previous unemployment rates are now down by 400. Still, there are black clouds in the horizon that we don't have, but it's positive that it goes down a little bit. And that's the first time in two years that it does. I think that's positive. This means that employers do not cancel people or send them out on leave, as many have claimed, but that they use leave tickets in a good way. The Reinertsen in Trondheim, who had announced 200 lay-offs, is an example of how the law of permancy works, balances and is used according to its intended purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e850	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e853	It was interesting to hear all the councils are happy. As for the stories he tells about Hassan and others, what strikes me is that we have a code where it's actually possible to get to something, which it didn't sound like when the same Eriksson was an opposition politician. And improving the legislation that works, we're going to be involved in discussing it. Then, at the end of the day, the state councils were in the framework of the law of permacy, by which there has been a unanimous criticism from the employers' and employees' side. It has become the trademark of the government that it absolutely does not belong to those who live their daily lives – in this case – in business, but also in relation to the IA agreement, where he has twice broken the agreement since it was concluded. My question is then: does everyone who criticises the law of leave, employers and employees do they not have their own business?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e860	First, I want to answer if the example of Hassan shows that it works. No, we don't use too little wage subsidies. The business community says clearly that we are not using it well enough, and that they wish it was more focused. This government provides a more targeted wage subsidy. It's positive, and that's good, which makes more people get the opportunity. As far as the law of the permit is concerned, I register, as I said in my final statement, that it works as intended. We have a split layer between the public and employers that works. The vacancy has gone down a little bit. We have record low permitting figures, but it is announced that the permitting code is being used, among others. The Reinertsen in Trondheim is a good example of this. I think people know where the shoe prints. It is also important for us, as politicians, to have legislation that works as intended. We've done that, and it's balancing. We follow developments closely, but we see that there are black clouds in the horizon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e869	It was this way that when the government weakened the permitting code attached to the year’s budget, there was unanimous criticism. Then the same government council said that he should follow the situation carefully – that is what the state council is doing all the time. Then there came much criticism throughout the spring, and many hoped that there would be a change in the revised budget. The Council’s response to why there was no change in the revised budget, despite the government’s further warning of a slight increase in unemployment, was that it should follow closely the situation. Then it is that in the state budget we now have to deal with, the government has once again announced that unemployment will increase, and we have seen it specifically related to the supplier industry in the West. There have been a number of enquiries from a joint, serious construction industry, which says, please let us keep employees, in which we can invest for knowledge and improved health, environment and safety. Then again, my question is, Don't they know what they're talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e878	I record that the unemployment rates are stable, and have been stable for a long time. That is why we are also following this development. I see no need to change legislation based on a stable and functioning labour market situation. I could have mentioned companies that have requested that you would have liked to leave, among other things. hired labour, but I also see that the same companies have permanent employees who are neither on leave nor cancelled. I think it's a wonder if it's the way the Workers' Party thinks it's right to permit people who are hired into a business, rather than get into another job quickly. At least it's a policy that I don't share, a prescription I don't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e885	The Council of State made a good contribution to all the important measures that we will jointly adopt today for the next year. I also want to commend the Council of State for having a great commitment to include more people in the working life, no later than this Friday with the message and proposition that came then. Although I have not read the measures carefully, at least I see several important measures being promoted, and I look forward to their treatment. But today on the news we could hear that it is estimated that it is approx. 40000 young people between the ages of 18 and 30 who are neither at work, in education nor in social security and caught up in the system. It is a very large group, so I would like to take the opportunity to hear the thoughts of the Council of State on how we can help them too, either into the response system or – preferably – directly into education or into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e892	I heard the same news, and I have to say that I am concerned when we see that there are 40,000 young people who are not registered at Nav, go to school or have a job to go to. It's a challenge how to reach these people in a good way, but I think it's important to raise that debate and sit down together and figure out how to reach these people, how to get them caught up in order to get them back to school. The government has now run a pilot project, in the Nord-Trøndelag – it came into the state budget – where, through the follow-up service, it follows up much earlier those who are most likely to do so, and helps them towards working life, health care or whatever it may be, at an earlier time than before, just to avoid them getting out of it all. I look forward to seeing the results of this pilot project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e899	The Council of State said that we had to arm Norway for the future, and I fully agree with that. It's one of the most important things we're facing, because we're facing worse weather, also political. That requires political leadership in order to ensure a level playing field in Norway. Then came the Council of State with the slogan «A safe, flexible and family-friendly working life». With the word ‘try’, I understand that employees are going to have permanent fixed-income employment. The word ‘family-friendly’ seems to me to give you time to get together with your family on evenings and Sundays. My question goes to the word «flexible». Does «flexible» mean «temporary» in the language used by the Council of State? Is ‘temporary’ part of ‘flexible work’? In the case of: who will get more of this ‘temporary’ in working life? Are both the high-wages and the low-wages involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e908	With the proposal we made on Friday with a general access to temporary employment, you can be temporarily employed for 12 months and have a quarantine period of 12 months. This can be framed with a quota system, and good frameworks can also be available to prevent abuse. Most enterprises in Norway are small enterprises with fewer than 10 employees. With our new proposal, those companies will be able to take one on temporary employment. And when we see how many people today never experience coming to an interview, never experience showing up, I think this can be good, good, important and correct, because it is safer to have a foot within the workplace than to be permanent outside the workplace – be excluded from work – and perhaps be stamped out for good. That's why I think it's wise, important and right to soften those rules a little bit and create a bigger arena to create the springboard that is necessary to ensure that more people who have holes in the CV, who are out of work, can get to try out and get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e915	It is just as the Council of State says, that the cooperation party is some of them to come back to this with the transitional aid, but in the meantime I have a couple of questions. The government's draft budget announced that one would reduce it from three to one year. The only argument put forward in the draft budget is a few words to support the objective of self-sufficiency at work. At the same time, the government has sent out on hearing suggestions for further tightening without the hearing document covering the proposed cut from three to one year. My questions are then: why are these changes proposed when the government in the budget proposal we are discussing today, print out correctly that some groups, especially single dependants, have had a weaker income development than the average in recent years? And why does the government produce individual elements in such an extensive matter in the budget proposal while other proposals are being sent out to the ears, without putting them in context?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e925	I believe that there are many good reasons why you should reduce from three to one year, precisely because we see that 54 pst. by those receiving transitional benefits, it already combines it with that of the labour market. For me, faster help and better help are more important to ensure that those people are given the opportunity and the freedom to be self-sufficient with their own income faster than that they are going as far as possible in a situation of low income and low employment. So I'm glad that through this agreement we can also now see all the elements together, that we're presenting a whole thing. I look forward to the discussion with both the Left and the Christian People's Party on how to ensure a good forward-looking transition system that ensures that more people get the opportunity to get back to work faster, but at the same time takes care of them as for example. have chronically ill children, disabled children, that they are also given the opportunity to have transitional allowances for a longer period of time — as is the case with education, for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e932	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e935	The State budget for 2015 has a clearly unsocial profile. It's a budget that takes Norway in the wrong direction. It is a budget that does not at all respond to the challenges we face. Labour and social dumping, perhaps the biggest challenge, are not just about the exploitation of foreign labour. Nor is it just about threatening Norwegian pay and working conditions and preventing the recruitment of skilled workers. It jeopardizes the entire Norwegian labour market model, competes with serious firms and weakens the productivity and quality of our business. It's about tax evasion and black work stealing billions from the community. In total, this threatens our entire welfare model. Reading the budgetary remarks in the 'lefsa' and listening to the input of the Council of State, it may seem that there is a cross-political consensus that labour and social dumping are among our main challenges. But it doesn't keep saying that you're concerned about the problem, it doesn't keep sharing the analysis of the Workers' Party, if you don't do anything about it. And this is where the government still separates layers from the Workers' Party and the rest of the opposition – in terms of will and ability to act. It took two months before the government said anything about work crime and social dumping after the government was formed. The first thing that happened was that the Council of State announced a crisis meeting where the concerned offices were to be gathered, and the unprofessional elements were to be smoked out. The crisis meeting was held in June. By then it was not just the opposition in Stortinget that was impatient. NHO and LO wrote joint letters to the Prime Minister and called for action. Still, the government hasn't answered what it's actually going to do, what the strategy is, just that it's going to come up with a strategy. It's been a year. It's not enough to say that you're busy solving a problem. If you don't go from talking to practice, it's nothing worth it. What is the government doing? It points to more stringent penalties and controls. That is good, and it is supported politically. But that is not enough, because labour crime is like any other crime, it must be combated by both punishment and prevention. The government has not given a single answer as to how it will prevent, but it has had the chance. Several times the Workers' Party has proposed measures in this room – ten measures in the transport sector a year ago, and next week we will examine 22 new proposals for action in an Action Plan 4. We will continue to propose measures where the government is paralyzed. In order to prevent the crime of working life and meet it, we need to focus on the strongest and best means of action we have: the trade union movement. Trustees with tools to be our eyes and ears are the most effective supervision around the workplaces across the country. Then we have to support the organized working life and provide them with more tools. Is that what the government is doing? No, on the contrary. They are depriving the trade union movement of important tools in this struggle. Nor are the proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act a response to and fight against unprofessionalism in the workplace. On the contrary, they are preventing the problem from coming to life. The sum of the proposals prefers petrol on the fire, facilitates more inconspicuous conditions in the workplace, discrimination and incompetence. The Labour Inspectorate correctly states that the government's proposals for changes will make their work against the crime of working life more difficult. The budget we are adopting here today has no power at all to meet our greatest challenge in the future. It contains no more than a lot of rhetoric about labour-life crime by the government, and it is nothing worth as long as the government in its entire policy weakens and does not strengthen the fight against labour-life crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e959	When the government joined, the voters were promised a change of course in Norwegian policy. We see the outlines of that in this budget. Greater emphasis is placed on value creation and increased competitiveness in order to ensure well-being. It involves a policy that facilitates more people's taking responsibility and contributing to the community and the well-being of the future. We must create before we can share. The government wants everyone with full or partial working skills to get to work. In order to achieve this, more attention needs to be paid to stimulating a more inclusive working life, and this budget provides for some changes in welfare schemes to provide incentives for gainful employment for those who are able to work in full or in part. In January 2015, we will have a new social security reform. It's going to be a big step in the right direction to include more in our work community. The new malpractice reform was adopted by a broad political majority in the United Kingdom in 2011, and the reform introduces a new regulatory framework allowing more people of working age to participate in the labour market. In practice, it will mean that anyone who has a disability benefit can combine work and social security from the first day they receive their disability benefit. It is important to stress that those who are too sick to work experience having a good safety net with a good and safe security of income and not having a bad conscience for it. I've met a lot of people with severe disabilities who get stressed when there's so much focus on work. They feel even more outside and inferior because they are unable to work. There are many unsatisfied people who have enough of everyday challenges like getting up, dressing, eating and participating in social activities when shape permits. That's why we also have to include this perspective when we're talking about disability and residual working capacity. The aim of the new disability benefit is to provide more flexible and seamless adaptation to the labour market than current legislation suggests. That's why it's important to have the grips the government is now taking. One has to look critically at the welfare systems and work measures we have, and ask: Are the measures we have, good enough? Or should new approaches, some adjustments and reinforcements be made so that measures can contribute better to work trials and good transitions to the labour market? The government is occupied by the large group that is on the outside of the world of work and wants to get a leg inside. The job is not only important as a source of income. The workplace is the most important social arena, most of us have outside the family. Therefore, the government does not want something to be inexperienced in creating and facilitating more people to get to work. Adjustments and some cautious changes in the Working Environment Act have, as expected, created debate and strong reactions in the trade movement. But it is nice to record that one of the measures, temporary employment, received good support at the leadership position in the evening post yesterday, where it said: ‘In the process of lowering the employment threshold, temporary employment should also be tested.’ The proposed change of temporary employment in the Working Environment Act is a conservative and limited change of up to 12 months of temporary employment, quarantine after the end of the employment relationship and a limit on the proportion of temporary employment of 15 pst. It does not in any way imply a breakdown of Norwegian working life, as some of the trade union movements and opposition in Stortinget claim. Permanent employment shall remain the general rule of Norwegian working life. It's about facilitating people who don't have a job today, and giving them an opportunity to get a foot in the world of work. They will then be able to gain valuable work experience and get easier access to a regular job. I recently read in the magazine All about seeing weak-minded Rainer Henriksen who was diagnosed with RP early in the 30s. RP, Retinitis Pigmentosa, is an eye disease that leads to limited vision and blindness. The eye doctor at the hospital who gave him the diagnosis, said, "Like you, we're disapproving." The reaction of Rainer was that he got angry, and he decided there and then that it would not happen to him. He wanted to work as far as possible, and with an employer who has arranged the situation, Rainer has shown that this is possible. He still works eight years after he was diagnosed, in the same company, in Mutual. He used to be a seller, today he works as a coach for the seller's group. He does not work as a coach because he is weak, but because he has the right skills and is good at coaching. He's used for what he's best at. There are more than one Rainer who has been met with offers of disability benefit when they have had a disability. The government will reverse that trend and facilitate people with disabilities in their working life. Being disabled is not the same as having a disability. It's about organization and adaptation. With some organisation, disabled people can function at the same level as they do without. In the 2015 budget, there are several measures that support the working line for people with disabilities and contribute to a more active everyday life. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the framework for labour market measures was reinforced by SEK 75.8 million, providing 500 seats for people with disabilities and 200 more places with permanent work. The Government will shortly, now in December, present a Communication on simplifying and streamlining the structure of action that will help to implement more tools to help those outside the labour market enter the labour market. In the budget, the functional assistance mechanism is strengthened so that more people can be included in that scheme. Workplace interpretation is strengthened and made permanent and, in addition, training is strengthened by accompanying deaf blind people. For several years, many have called for a speech recognition programme in Norwegian. This is an important corrective action for those with disabilities in their arms, but also for those with severe dyslexia. The government has now granted 13 million. for the development of such a programme. In the budget agreement, efforts for universal design increased by 9.8 million. kr, which is important in strengthening efforts, so that Norway becomes a more universally designed society. The Government Platform states that the government is to ‘tighten the gaps in the security network for groups that are currently falling through’. This makes the government visible in multi-ministerial efforts. This includes, inter alia: more equivalent conditions for children growing up in economically disadvantaged families. The government will ensure that several children can participate in important social arenas, regardless of the income of their parents, by establishing local facilities and quota support schemes. Both the Children’s and Young People’s Grant Scheme in major urban communities and the National Disability Grant Scheme are significantly increased in 2015. The budget agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left has a better social profile at the kindergarten than the red-green ones delivered. Low income families will have a reduced kindergarten price and the budget will be strengthened by 51 million. to provide free core time in kindergartens to four- and five-year-olds from low-income families throughout the country. The government will also target and significantly increase the grant rates for high school students coming from families where the total income of mother and father is low. In fact, the scholarship rates increase by 50 pst. for those students who need this scholarship the most. The government takes this seriously with child poverty, takes new steps and will work purposefully to make fewer families feel poor in our society. The government will further develop cross-ministerial cooperation by developing an overall strategy against child poverty. In the work on the strategy, the government will build on the cooperation agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right on action against child poverty, cf. proposals in Document 8:125 S for 2012–2013. Finally, the government is working specifically to reduce child poverty, but the most important measure in the fight against poverty is to strengthen efforts to include more people in the labour market. It's best for the kids, and it's best for mom and dad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1004	The proposal for a State budget, presented by the Right-wing Party Government earlier this fall, was the best government budget of the century. Finally, the Right Party government had the opportunity to present a budget that we had prepared ourselves, without having to patch on a red-green starting point. Norway’s first so-called blue-blue budget has all the necessary elements in it to raise Norway to new heights, into a clear and blue sky. The most important thing is the blue profile, i.e. a growth-enhancing budget with growth-enhancing and dynamic tax havens, which will contribute to increased employment and growth. The right-hand Party Government is committed to using public funds more effectively and therefore prioritises measures for value creation and increased productivity. The most important thing is that working, saving and investing will be more profitable. The good tax policy, combined with changes for those living with public benefits, has a double positive impact on the workforce. Increases in the free-card limit, reduced child supplements, job interpretation for deaf people, multiple places of action for people with disabilities, multiple VTA places, increased social entrepreneurship grants, Norwegian speech recognition programmes, the closure of the supplementary social welfare supplements and the closure of the holiday supplement in the day-to-day scheme are all important measures that strengthen the working line. The right-wing Party government has been criticised for a lack of social profile. That criticism falls on its own unfairness and bears more the mark of classical and cliché ideological rhetoric than of factual, factual arguments. In fact, the government provides a better life for people who need it the most. The 2015 government budget strengthens the BPA, contributes to cheaper childcare facilities for those with low income, holiday club for disadvantaged people, strengthening the state grant scheme for housing with day-to-day care, money laundering, psychiatry, health, increased credit card limit, lower, simpler and fewer car-related charges, more student housing, reduced property tax, also for minimum pensioners – I would like to remind you that almost 300,000 pensioners will now receive lower taxes on wealth and, in general, a lower level of taxes and charges, which benefits everyone. The most important thing in the state budget is that we make the Norwegian welfare society more sustainable for the future, by tax havens and by strengthening the working line. The first real government budget of the right-wing party government is, as has been said, the best budget of the century – even after the Christian People's Party and Left have received the «barbert» budget. Something got a little worse, but something also got significantly better. The most important thing is that the big lines are fixed. The most important thing is that the profile, the course and the direction are maintained. Although the pace of the changes has been somewhat moderated after the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the totality is very good. One of the things that perhaps has engaged me and provoked me most in the budget debate this fall is the much-mentioned child supplement in the disability. When you go to work clarifications, you get a standard child supplement of NOK 7 020. It was introduced by the red-green, without any protests. But when you go from work clearance to disability, the child supplement can increase to a total of NOK 35,000. Where's the logic of being economically rewarded by falling short? It is, of course, quite illogical to reward those who go from work clearance to disability. That's the opposite of strengthening the line of work. Depending on the salary level and the number of children, you can actually get a compensation rate of over 150 pst. This not only weakens the working line, but also the sense of justice of most people and the motivation to work and contribute to the community. The main point is that in order to strengthen the working line it must pay to work, and then you cannot have compensation levels exceeding 100 pst. Fortunately, there was agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party on a maximum compensation of 95 p.m., so that the working line was still stuck.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1021	In today's Business on 25 October, Per Sandberg criticised the indirect participant Eriksson for doing a terrible job, not creating a government budget for the important work of the social field, but for creating a communication strategy and explaining what the budget really is about. That should be the main reason for the decline in the measurements. After this lookup, Sandberg has done its best to help Eriksson communicate that the submitted state budget does not have an unsocial profile – only the voters have misunderstood. The problem with Sandberg, Eriksson and the government is hardly that the voters have not understood the budget proposal, but that they have understood it, and that they don't like what they see. From the same government that has now given more to Olav Thon alone than it costs to finance the whole of the cultural spa, a series of petty cuts are being carried out in the state budget, the hardest of which is those who view wealth taxes as an utopian problem and are most concerned about getting their everyday lives around. I can't stop wondering about the evaluations behind the government's policy. Either the chronic misassessments of what people really want, or you just don't care. Whatever the case, the protests against government in the last year have been of such a nature as we rarely see in Norwegian politics. The debate on the children's supplement has been the most pervasive since the debate on the right of reservation. The polls should be a clear indication to the government that an overestimating election result: People don't want a blue copy of the Moderates in Sweden. People see that the policy of government is not the answer to the challenges of the future, but is the past of its answers, which we have abandoned and rejected in the 20th century. The ideologists who inspire the government have all the past marks with them. Einar Fördes over 30 years old words are just as good today: The rightthinking is still an ideological deficiency disease. The Left and Christian People's Party have given the budget some brighter colors, but there is still a lot left. Or, as Greece puts it, the main feature is fixed. The government's option to save 137 million. kr by not price adjustment of bets in the population, is nothing more than petty. In addition, the government is weakening the car support for the disabled, who have until now been tested to get out of a socially isolated presence. These millions should go to those who need it the most, and so it's unsocial to spend them on tax cuts for rich people. The main defense of the government party is to owe the Workers' Party a debt to fail the principle that it should pay off to work – what they call the line of work. In other words, the rule of law means more in our use of the word than what appears to be doing for the government. Yes, it will pay to work, but it must also be jobs to search and work to get. Then it's very unfortunate that the government is financing these tax cuts, among other things. cutting labour market measures and stimulating firms to quit rather than to permit. I record that the government party reads the perspective message as much as a certain person reads the Bible. Their conclusion is that the welfare state is resilient if we just weaken it a little bit in each round. I would like to underline the following: The government calls a more flexible working life, nothing new or out of control. It has been prescribed in many countries, not least through the financial crisis. The Right Party explains the economic downturn in the fact that the framework countries have had too large welfare states, too few flexible labour markets, and then the answer is self-evident: one must cut the welfare and deregulate the labour market. The problem is that it's not like you're opening up bigger differences and getting the economy back on track. The right-wing party in Sweden tried for years. Increased flexibility, higher pay differentials, lower taxes, slimmer welfare countries and poorer benefits under unemployment and illness – it does not work. The countries that have invested in more inequality and more atypical work have not improved the labour market, and the growth expected has simply failed. Trickle down economy does not work in the United States, not in Europe, nor will it work in Norway. There is no positive link between this recipe and employment growth. A policy of increasing disparities and thicker labour markets does not create growth, it does not create wealth, but only increasing differences and tougher conditions for workers. Then a speculator can wonder if that's not what it's meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1038	Norwegian labour and social policy is based on the principle that you should be caught by a social security network if you fall out of the labour market. This principle is also used by the government in its work of modernising Norwegian working life to meet the challenges of the future. One of the challenges is work crime where you cynically exploit labour for your own gain, and another is young people who fall out of work before it begins. The latter are guest workers working in Norway for short or longer periods. Occupational crime is serious for Norwegian working life because it undermines the possibilities for the serious actors, but may also lead to accidents at work not being reported and to workers who are injured not receiving medical follow-up or compensation for reduced working capacity. Young people who fall out of the labour market or do not enter the labour market are serious for Norway. This workforce is essential to maintain Norway’s prosperity in relation to future labour in the health and social sectors, but also to finance future pensions. In Sarpsborg Steinar Bodal started together with Terje Fossby project Nevenytig. The purpose was to clean up the Bodal beaches in Sarpsborg. About 20 local pensioners had engaged in the project, and two days a week young and old worked side by side to get the beach ready. The project has been a collaboration between Nav, who picked out the youth, the pensioners and the volunteering centre in Sarpsborg. This is a good example of cooperation between voluntary pensioners and young people to get out of Nav and get into work. At the same time, pensioners have been in the labour market, have contacts in the labour market and have unique labour market skills. This is a work model that could well have been used in other municipalities. Some parties want to legitimise youth rights measures to get out of work. I have little faith in this. Often, the aim is to initiate measures without looking at the content and the possibility of getting a job later. I have more faith in cooperation between public authorities and private businesses. There are many corporate leaders with a social commitment who like to help young people get into work, but then flexible laws and incentives are needed to enable businesses to add young people. Fredrikstad municipality issued a report entitled «Possibility for mastering» in 2014. One of the exciting projects described in the report was the use of social professionals in high school. High school had an employee in this position to work against drop-outs in high school. The social worker had an overall perspective and worked closely with other school staff. The benefit was that young people could get the right help at the right time, which is an important principle of Norwegian welfare support, but also that they could be intervened at an early stage. Young people got help before the problems got too big. At the same time, young people with major challenges were given the opportunity to address them and to start a process of change. The report highlights that one of the most important things was to have understanding and faith in the student and at the same time to present challenges. Not least, the social worker had a professional network and knowledge of external bodies. It is precisely this government that points out when you talk about and want more interdisciplinary cooperation to solve the challenges for young people. It is not new that guest workers come to Norway. The new thing may be that they are more, and citizens of new EU Member States choose to seek happiness in Norway, as the nordics did when they traveled to the United States. The challenge for Norway is that we are an attractive country to travel to. We have good welfare arrangements, but also good wages. In order for us to maintain our good arrangements, political wisdom is required. The government wants to review today's welfare systems and make them more targeted. The government has a comprehensive labour and social policy. The working line is fixed. The aim is therefore to target the tools so that more people can get to work, not only because it is the goal, but also because work has a positive effect on health and the ability to make friends. There is also one reason why several older people will be able to stay in the labour market after they have reached the age of 70. It gives you an increased quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1061	Former speakers have characterised the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as ‘annual budget papers’, in stark contrast to the government’s alleged investment on the line of work. Here, in fact, we see one of the clearest lines of Norwegian policy: everyone is concerned about the line of work – that as many as possible should be able to feed on their own work – but there are quite different answers to which instruments lead to the goal. The Solberg government has repeatedly proved that it prefers whip. Some people live fat on public benefits, and the answer is to cut social benefits across the line, whether we talk about social clients, disability, disability with children, single dependants, people on measures, people with disabilities with housing support, or immigrants and refugees who, at retirement age, have so little living time that they end up below the minimum pension level. The responsibility that people are not at work is placed on the individual, who has it difficult enough already. Community responsibility for the organisation of notes. Those who have little should be pushed into work by getting less – but pressured out to what? The Labour Party was the first to use the term ‘workline’ under the then Social Minister Grete Knudsen, but the definition of the term was different from what the current government is referring to. Yes, we were concerned about the growth of public expenditure on social benefits, but it was the concern of the people behind the statistics that guided the instruments used. So one of them became after every Nav reform. The aim of the Nav reform was more in work and activity, less in social benefits – in this order. In order to achieve this, one overall management, of which there were three, was put in place in order to better adapt to the needs of users. Individual levels based on individual assumptions and opportunities should be the new work tool. Greater emphasis should be placed on social work, less on regulation management, actions were combined to provide greater opportunities for tailoring an offer to the individual needed, and a new qualification programme for those at risk of becoming long-term beneficiaries was introduced. The premium for extra effort was increased support, and I just want to remind you that the Progress Party – as the only party – voted against the qualifying aid, if anyone had forgotten it. Those who can't, would get a faster clearance for social security. The goal was to help people for a better life. So we all know that we're not there yet. The hub does not work as intended. It's going in the right direction, but not fast enough. The Control and Constitutional Committee has once again had a hearing on serious failures within the establishment. An overall committee shares the government's concern that the objectives of the Nav reform have not yet been achieved, in particular with regard to the lack of results for transition to work. But there also stops the consensus. In the view of the Labour Party, the primary task of the Council of State should be to make Nav work – not to penalise the beneficiaries of the benefits for government deficits. One action may be to carefully consider the SV proposal in Document 8:75 S for 2013–2014, establishing a Nav ombudsman. The proposal is not supported by the government parties, and it is on the recommendation of the Council of State not to take it now. The Solberg government chose, despite warnings from the people involved, to draw the Stoltenberg II government's message of more people in work -- it wasn't good enough. Last Friday we got the answer to what was missing. Those who are dependent on social assistance must take responsibility for the fact that the auxiliaries do not have enough to provide. Ironically, this message came at exactly the time of the year that the Progress Party in the opposition used to propose extra money to the social welfare recipients for Christmas. Someone now feels probably tricked. The government knows that today's law opens up an activity requirement. The government knows that when this does not happen, it is usually due to drug or health problems, or lack of relevant measures. Why then do you choose to make users responsible, and not state and municipality? There is only one answer to this: The current government’s view of where the cause lies – among those who choose to live ‘the good life’ on transfers from state and municipality. Is it possible to distance itself further from reality than this? We'll see. Unfortunately, there are still three blue-blue budget proposals pending. In this round, the Christian People's Party and the Left have fortunately been able to scrubbing something. The beneficiaries may only hope that the intermediate parties will be able to attach an even tighter grip on the timbers in the coming rounds, and in particular on the question of temporary posts. A completely recent survey from Sweden shows widespread abuse of a similar scheme: 39 000 people have been with the same employer for more than five years without having a permanent job. This isn't suitable for copying here. Finally, I would like to point out that in case No. 2 votes the Workers' Party against the paragraphs that we have notified in the setting. In Case No. 3 votes Workers' Party against Section 4 in respect of the paragraphs we have indicated that we are against, No. 5, 6 and 8 and those parts of it. 9 relevant to the entry into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1084	The representative was then given some time to make this explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1087	I'll talk about the budget, but since I'm here first, I thought I'd just mention Prop very soon. 10 L for 2014-2015 also. I want to thank the Committee for a good cooperation. There is no doubt that there is a good working environment in the Labour and Social Committee. But today we are discussing a budget that makes Norway clear. It's a budget that addresses challenges we know we're facing, but that's tough to meet. So it took a civil government to follow up the challenges we were aware of in a red-green document. The perspective message is quite clear on what we have in front of us. Based on the debate on the budget, the left-hand side seems to have decided that medicine is more of what makes it more difficult for us to change. We want to use medicine that works. It involves priorities that do not necessarily have a natural place in speeches, but there are priorities that will be important for the sustainability of our welfare state. These are priorities that equip Norway for the future. There are priorities that make some important changes in the welfare system. That's why we follow up important samples in this area. One is the Indemnity Committee, and we're dealing with something from the sample. The committee was involved in laying the foundations for the unfavourable reform, and although it may seem that the red-green parties will no longer recognize it, it is an important reform, which is good for us to agree on. The second selection is the Welfare and Migration Committee. We know that changes and conversions are necessary to ensure sustainability and legitimacy. Unfortunately, when I asked the Workers' Party, at the representative Dag Terje Andersen, in a row a little while ago about what welfare arrangements the Workers' Party believes need a change in order to ensure sustainability and legitimacy, the representative was obliged to respond. The status quo is the answer. The project of the red-green lots in this field may seem to have been completed. There's nothing more to be done. But that's not right. We must continue to strengthen the working line in Norway. Why do we have to? Well, because the workline is a basic social project. It's a social project because work is good for health. It's a social project because work gives you the opportunity to stand on your own. And it's a social project because work is what finances well-being. The representative of Christoffersen said that the Workers' Party and the Government have different definitions of the working line. Then it would be quite interesting to know what is the Workers' Party's definition of the line of work. Should it be, for example, pay to work in a work line? We mean it – we believe it is an important principle. I cannot interpret the budget priorities of the Labour Party and the other red-green parties this autumn as anything but saying goodbye to the line of work and rather laying down on a social welfare line. It's not a line of work to prioritize as the Socialist Left Party does: spend money on that we're all going to work less. If we work less, we're going to have bigger challenges in funding well-being. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, it is difficult to understand. We know that the way in to outsiders for many starts with a search report. We are going to have a good health care system in Norway, but I have to ask why the Workers' Party does not see itself served with measures that can reduce long-term sick leave. There's two little cuts of $26 million. which terminates normal medical care messages and an experiment with a system in which a new medical assessment must be requested after six months of medical treatment. Why in the world do you do such a cut? What alternatives does the Labour Party have to reduce long-term absenteeism? It would have been interesting to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1110	In particular, along the coast we see a demanding situation related to the supplier industry. The worst hit is Hordaland, Rogaland and West Agder. In the last year, 2,800 more people have lost their jobs, and unemployment has increased most in Rogaland. The increased unemployment rate has been highest in industry. Engineers and ICT professionals have been hit hardest. Everything suggests that this will hit many more up the coast in the time to come. The background to the situation is inter alia: lower oil prices, fewer contracts, less maintenance and oil service and fewer modifications on Norwegian base. This directly affects the supplier industry and creates unrest throughout the value chain. Politically, this situation requires action. Erna Solberg's plan is so far inactive. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there's a record low number of permits now. That is a reason why it is, and the reason is too bad framework conditions now. They're being cancelled. It is therefore tempting to ask how the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs views this. The councils are from Verdal, however many employees on Kværner also notice this on the body. Several journeys now to Kværner Stord in Hordaland to work. LO and NHO have been aware that it is important to reverse the legislation on permitting quickly, as the Labour Party in its alternative budget puts it. It is incredible that one measure that can help maintain the industry’s skills is not taken up by the drawer. Today, companies do not see this as a good enough tool in the fight to keep employees for a demanding time. They need political drag help. The government has not been particularly responsive to the members of LO and NHO so far, but we have hoped that the Council of State would clean it up, all the time he himself in opposition was very eager when it came to this tool. Robert Eriksson said on 12 June 2006 from this pulpit: ‘The negative consequences of the reductions in the permitting rules are indicated by a report on the consequences of stricter permitting rules. Among other things, evidenced that there would be a large decrease in the number of ten-day leavers because the companies would be more willing to resort to temporary employment rather than permanent employment. Furthermore, it was noted that the consequences of this would lead to a deterioration in productivity and recruitment, and that health, environment and safety would be poorer. Recruitment of motivated and competent new staff, including: apprentices have been significantly weakened due to increased uncertainty about permanent employment. I am aware of the situation on the labour market, but we must remember here that we are talking about industries that are very cyclical. The Party considers that it is necessary to propose legislative improvements in the interests of workers and Norwegian enterprises before the new rules cause excessive damage.» I agree with the Council of State that it is important to put more effort into the regulatory framework when the market tightens up and employees are exposed to redundancies. Fortunately, it's an attractive competence we're talking about here, but many people are worried about getting a new job. Is it not then the responsibility of a Council of State to take action, both to maintain important skills and to have a long-term recruitment strategy and, in addition, to provide security for employees so that they do not lose their jobs, but that companies want to keep them even if there are demanding times. I mean what I quoted from the post to Robert Eriksson, now the Council of State, from June 2006, is also relevant in today's situation. Those who try to look into the glass sphere in the future say that the situation on the Norwegian base will continue at least in 2015, possibly also in 2016. Then you need a grip right now. Otherwise, it can also be interpreted as meaning that the Council of State does not want to use this tool now because increased uncertainty, increased unemployment and increased number of temporary jobs no longer frighten him, but reassures him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1131	In ten years’ time, Norway may lack as many as 90 000 skilled workers. When the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left of this pulpit are concerned about the sustainability of the future, they can start there. If the welfare of Norway is to be ensured and Norwegian enterprises are to be innovative, we need good skilled workers. I hope the Right Party and the Advance Party in the future are more concerned about it and less concerned about weakening the law in the Norwegian labour market. When the government talks about a professional career, it's going to be with the talk. However, for the Workers' Party, it is also obvious that if the labour market situation is not addressed at the same time, a joblift is worthless. And what is the situation that the Right Party and the Advance Party are smoothly ignoring? Well, first of all, access to cheap foreign labour affects the willingness of many companies to invest in skilled workers. We see that weakened rights, social dumping and unprofessional actors lower the status of vocational training. This affects young people’s willingness to apply to a professional because although nine out of ten young people view construction as an important and socially useful profession, most people believe that education is of low status. 73 pst. in the opinion of young people under 30 years of age, construction is of low status. If electrophage corresponds to 65 pst. The same thing and 64 pst. considers that the health profession has a low status. Compared to 80 pst. the high status of study-specialising education. The reason for young people looking at vocational training is primarily related to the labour market situation. They respond that they are concerned about undeclared work, unprofessional actors and more and more rentals in more and more industries. That is why I and the entire educational fraction of the Workers' Party are concerned about the government's changes to the Working Environment Act. We are concerned that there is little effort against social dumping. Young school students who are going to choose, make a choice for life and decide whether they might be going to professional, they're reading newspapers. If more and more industries are characterised by temporaryity, unprofessional operators, subcontractors and rentals, it weakens the status of the industries that young people could have applied for. In this situation, when we may be at risk of the lack of 90,000 skilled workers, and the professional professions are too low, the government chooses to amend the Working Environment Act. At the same time, they're talking about a professional lift. It's not in the jump. A joblift is of little value if the labour market is characterised by more temporary jobs and continues to be unprofessional. To put it another way: it does not help what Torbjørn Røe Isaksen does with vocational education in Norway if the students are to be sent out into Robert Eriksson’s working life. It also doesn't keep talking about a profession, because that's how far it's been with the words. In this budget, the government decided to spend less on professional subjects for next year than you do this year, i.e. a net cut. In reality, there is no evidence of a professional lift in the State budget. At the same time, we see changes in the Labour Environment Act that will make the situation unsafe for more young people and weaken the willingness to invest in the professional field. The Workers' Party has invested in our alternative state budget on the trade union worker. We want to increase the support for getting more places to learn so that students can complete their education. We will provide the schools with up-to-date equipment for vocational training. We also believe that vocational teachers deserve attention and will give them a lift of competence. And, not least, we want the students to meet a decent and safe working life when they're fully educated. These are clear budgetary priorities. There are priorities that help to ensure the welfare state of the future, because it will be completely impossible to create values at home, in Norwegian enterprises, based on Norwegian knowledge, without the company having professional skills and good skilled workers. The Labour Party will lift the professions in action, not only in rhetoric, and we will retain strong rights in the labour market. Young people who are to choose a profession should know that they are entering a safe labour market – not Robert Eriksson’s labour market, which is on the way to the unemployed workers’ society with the changes they are now making in the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1146	The chairperson of the Committee said in his statement that the right went to the elections for changes that they are now implementing. For me who has followed this debate for quite a while, it is far from the truth. I don't recognize the Right that they presented themselves as in the election campaign. About a year before the election, the then labour policy spokesman Torbjørn Røe Isaksen put up a picture of himself where he went to the left by a solid road marking. In addition, a website called Arbeitpartit.no was presented, and it would really stress that it was the Right that had changed policy and that significant changes had been made — symbolic changes and real changes. At the same time, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said that he only wanted to implement changes that could gain large support, both from employers' organisations and from employee organisations. The true opposite happens. When the government presents changes to the Labour Environment Act, it harvests storms, both among employers and among employees. The government made a choice on something other than what it is currently implementing. The same applies to action sites. We agree that demands for activity are the best care you can get. Before the option, the Stoltenberg government was criticised for the low level of action. But what is the government now presenting: cut in the number of action places, and at the same time present the chairman of the committee today that there may be signs that the unemployment rate is rising. It does not help with demands if it is not the case that there are concrete demands to make to people in the form of action places. So the government is doing something different than what it went to choice on. The same applies to tripartite cooperation: it should be better, but it has been a long time since tripartite cooperation has been so marked by political dictates and inability to listen to both employers and employees. It's not that a civil government will change the health pay scheme, it's just scare propaganda, we got to know before the election. But it wasn't. I am glad that the Minister of Labour has changed his view and understood this, but the government is doing something different than what it went to elections on. The same applies to the invitation to tender in the event of reopening. ‘We do not want tenders in return, because I believe this leads to a worse and narrower offer.’ That's what Robert Eriksson said before the election. The right said that they agreed, and that they were opposed to tenders in this area. But this is done without discussion in Stortinget, it's decided outside the staging room, and the staging message in this area is presented after the regulation has changed. Poor children would have more, while demanding tougher demands for those outside the labour market. The truth is, this is about good goals, which conflict with each other. These are dilemmas. We see that when it's cut in money for the unemployed, we see that when it's cut in the children's supplement, and we see that in many other Nav-cuts. I'm sure it's meant to stimulate work, but it affects children who don't have parents in their working life. We're going to have a solid safety net for those who can't be at work,' said the chairman of the committee. Well, in many areas he just wants to cut off this security network. When the government parties now experience opposition to the polls, Siv Jensen believes that this is due to the horror propaganda from the left. Per Sandberg says it's about the lack of communication advisors in the departments. I think the decline is because the voters disagree with the government's policy. In the election campaign, these parties delivered a message that they would almost not change Norway, just rule the country better, with some new face. But the state budget shows that the government wants to direct Norway in a different direction from what they communicated in the election campaign. Studies show that the majority in Norway believe that there is a wrong direction. It's not about government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1173	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1176	I want to talk about the proposal to introduce minimum wages in Norway. I record that the representative Rotevatn pushes the disadvantaged in front of him, with measures against which a total trade union movement is opposed. Some of what has made Norway a country with relatively small differences is just a strong organised labour movement. It is an honest thing to want to introduce minimum wages in Norway, but it is unfair to justify this with social rights for workers. It is precisely because the trade union movement is so conscious of its own interests that it rages against the proposal for a minimum wage. The weakening of organised labour to combat social dumping is a major paradox. In those countries of Europe where the minimum wage has been introduced, it is likely to be about the same. 30-50 pst. of the average. Minimum wages do not solve the problems of social dumping, but standardise low wages for those who are most disadvantaged in the labour market. Shortly after the introduction of the measure in Germany, the level of organisation fell to 18 pst. It's just coordinated wage fixing that's one of the success factors in the model we have in Norway. When the representative Rotevatn claims that there are fundamentally worrying aspects of publishing, because there is a voluntary agreement between two parties, I believe that he is withdrawing from reality. It is naive to believe that there is a level playing field between the employee and the employer, and that is precisely why an organised working life is so important and necessary and has been a success for Norwegian workers. Does the representative Rotevatn see the importance of strong employee organisations to balance this relationship of power? And does the representative Rotevatn and the other proposers see that introducing minimum wages in Norway is a serious attack on organised labour, in the light of European experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1191	The trade unions are now warning of a political strike against the proposals of the Health and Safety at Work Act, which was submitted on Friday. We also see that trust leaders in Fauske have stood up – in VG, among others. – and said that they are sorry that the government is pushing them in front of them in a fantasy story about how great it is with the weekend tour. The example of Fauske's excellence has been mentioned on several occasions by Eriksson, but the trustees can tell us that this attempt had to be terminated, because those who worked under the scheme were worn out by it. At the press conference on Friday, those of us who were not present were told about the question of who really wanted these changes. Then was one of the councils' answers: the academics. These again responded by sending out a press release where they rushed against the proposal. I think it is a point of light that, in this situation, at least the government is able to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. Another area that needs to be strengthened, is Nav, because we know that more people are probably going to have a tough time meeting. Several people may have precarious jobs and may have to use the device for Nav. But we also know that not everyone has the same ease to get through this system, or that you could need more help and guidance than you get. That is why the SV has put forward a proposal on Nav ombudsmen, which I would like everyone who had supported the idea of earlier would also protect about today. At a time when the government is alerting social welfare beneficiaries to the obligation of activity, it is likely that the experience of unfair treatment in benefits provision will increase. Social assistance recipients today have very low or almost no real right to complain about their benefits. More will also need to be seen by Nav. There are several people who lose their jobs, who have reduced their ability to work. Then we need a close and present hub. But SV still believes that we need a Nav agent, who can untie people through the meeting with Nav, to participate in the fight when you think that things have not gone right. I wonder what has really changed since the then big business representative Eriksson was a driver of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1202	The right has the goal of creating patients' health care and has a vision of a society where everyone can participate. This vision is one of the basic principles of government health and welfare policy, as reflected in the State budget. Earlier this year the government promoted a case on the statutory right to user-controlled personal assistance, BPA, which the Stortinget decided in June. BPA is an alternative way of organising services and personal assistance for people with disabilities, those with a high need for assistance in everyday life, both inside and outside the home. The rights attaching of BPA helps to facilitate these, in line with others in society, to achieve their goals. For each user, the right to BPA will mean more predictability and a more active and independent life despite its disability. BPA is simply a release tool that provides disabled persons with the same space for action for life development as others. This makes it possible for even more people with disabilities to participate in the labour market, and the law came far overtime — to say it very carefully. Already in 2004, the Stortinget asked the government to promote legislation on the right to user-led personal assistance, which the Stoltenberg II government chose not to implement. Afterwards, a long fight was started to secure a rating. This battle was specifically taken and supported by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party here in Stortinget, but it took a government shift to put in place today's lawmaking, and it is a pleasure that this is now also followed up in the state budget. BPA provides people with disabilities with the same space for action as other citizens of the country. It's about predictability for people who already have a very tough life because of their disability. In addition, when the budget improves the organisation of disabled people in the labour market by means of several measures, we are helping to increase the number of people involved in the labour market. We have to make sure that everyone who can and anyone who wants to participate in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1218	Social work is useful. Poverty makes people sick and support. It's binding research that shows it's like this. Nevertheless, the Right Party and the Advance Party and the Government only follow ideological lines. Mostly to those most in need of help, a representative from the Right said here in the village – and then they cut for the disabled, the unemployed and the single-parents and give large tax credits to people who have large properties, good jobs and high wages. I don't know why they need it anymore, but what the government says doesn't work. First to the dissatisfaction and child supplement: Yes, I am disappointed with the Christian People's Party, which does not see that there are 4,500 children left with parents who are permanently ill and who have had a very low wage from before and therefore have to live – permanently – the rest of their childhood and youth in poverty. It's completely unnecessary, because there won't be another human being at work. What the Christian People's Party knows just as well as SV, is that poverty makes people sick, they get more support, they get farther away from the work force. It also shows Nav's sea in its reports. So it doesn't work either, that's the problem. And there'll be more poor. So to cut the transitional benefit for single-parents: it's three years you now require people to go on qualification, and it works! Fafo has investigated it, and it actually seems better for immigrant women than for Norwegian women; they come out to work as much as Norwegian women. It is a fantastic result, but it will remove the government, because it is too good! One year is enough, said Erna Solberg here during the Question Time. Who in the world says that one year is enough for others to qualify for this working life we now have? Who thinks you'll get a job to support kids on your own, with a year's qualification? It is permanent in the working life that this government is trying to create: temporaryity, poor wages, and then you become dependent on social assistance. The arrangement we have today makes people actually get into a job that they can take care of. It's the taskbar. That's the proper line of work. These cuts have nothing to do with the workline — nor is it the inconsistency of coercive labour for social welfare workers. I have asked the government: how many dollars have you spent in the local economy for action, for some to be able to run labour management, for some to help those who are on social assistance, to get into a meaningful activity? The answer is zero. So this doesn't have to cost one penny, but it has to be a non-content coercive work that is only moralism. It doesn't lead to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1229	We are in a situation where unemployment is growing. We notice that in particular in the West. So how is this going to be met by the government? Well, it's interesting to see: cut down in action places, fierce resistance to any measure that can contribute positively, and active work that exacerbates the labour market situation by legislating access to temporary employment, which will undermine the labour market and make it more difficult for people to hold on to jobs — to mention something. I find it interesting to see what the Council of State said in June 2006 when he was a big-time representative. Then we had 62,000 unemployed, and Eriksson warned quite correctly about the consequences of tightening up the law on permitting: there would be more temporary ones. A little bit we thought at the time that Eriksson was actually going to think that temporary employment is very good. At the time it was about going from five to ten days with an employer’s period. Today we have 72 000 unemployed, and the Council of State Eriksson refuses to go from 20 to 10 days with the employer's period, while at the same time submitting legislative proposals that will release temporary employment. This will have a hard impact on the labour market. Let me say a little bit about what makes the unemployment increase strongly now, and make a constructive proposal for something that can be done to counteract parts of this. There's a fall in the oil business. We have had a cost gap in the industry that has made things difficult. In addition, we have a strong capital discipline in the oil companies that stops investment and maintenance, and we have an oil price that falls, which also strengthens development. Many lose their jobs — initially foreign rentals, which do not appear in Norwegian statistics, in the next ten thousand Norwegian workers. Competence and capacity disappear. Then the question is what can be done. We've been through the Permitting Code. I would like to address another topic that is within the remit of the Council of State, namely this with well-tuning. Today, according to Martin Straume in BP, it is 3,000 wells that could have been studied permanently on a Norwegian base. Petroleum monitoring has itself identified approx. 200 abandoned wells where there are problems. If you go in to get these students permanently, it could give you 20 rigs for one year or 10 rigs for two years, which is absolutely necessary. Today these riggings go into print. We know what kind of problems it brings on that day the journey will come if we have a lack of rigging, namely new cost spiral, etc. Therefore, I would ask the Council of State to look at this proposal and respond to what he thinks about something like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1242	The representative Heggelund said in his post that if we work less, we get a challenge to fund the welfare state. The Centre Party points out that employment in Norway is at full speed down as a result of an increase in the proportion of immigrants in the population, as a result of, among others, the increase in employment in Norway. The EEA Agreement. So there's nothing ‘if anything’ because it's happening at full speed already today. The representative Heggelund must take this fact into account and respond to how to finance the welfare state when the percentage of professional participation is declining steadily. So to the Council's slogans for working life: safe, flexible and family friendly. As I said in my previous post, the three words contain a great deal of embedded contradictions. Flexible, confirmed state councils mean more temporaryity. But when you have more temporaryity, it becomes more unsafe, and it becomes less family friendly. That is why I would recommend that the Council replace the slogan with one that is more in line with what is actually happening, because it will be over time. So that was the question of minimum pay. There are crisis measures in the labour market in several countries, with weaker professional movements in many disciplines, as they do. Therefore, a minimum wage is introduced. In Norway, the government is moving towards the minimum wage. It's too radical now. But the Left is in favour, and the Left Party has received support from the Progress Party in the Committee. When the representative Rotevatn is asked about the level of minimum wage – whether it should be 30-50 pst. by e.g. 150 kroner an hour, which means 50 kroner – 75 kroner per hour – the representative does not respond to it. What we're facing here is that one imagines the legalization of a minimum wage that is not to live for even in the higher-cost Norway. It concerns the whole of the Constitutional Paragraph that you should be able to get a job that you can live from. It is important that we get that debate up and out among the majority of people, because there are important issues that are now being debated in Norwegian society, as a result of the major changes in the labour market. Finally, I just want to say that on page 6 of the Innst. 81 L for 2014-2015, which concerns amendments to the Act on Supplementary Social Welfare for persons with a short residence in Norway, has become a mistake: it states that the Central Party does not support the Government’s proposal. As can be seen from Innst. 15 S for 2014-2015, the Central Party supports the Government's proposal, and that is the view of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1253	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1257	Just a short answer to the post by Højres representative Stefan Heggelund, who wondered what was the difference between our and the government party's approach to the line of work. I think I was pretty clear on that in my first post, but the biggest difference is the whip, in terms of cuts in social benefits, for which the government parties are in favour. There are two ways to meet the goal of working: one is cutting social benefits. The other is to work for a decent working life, with wages it is possible to live on. Stefan Heggelund was also at Prop. 10 L for 2014-2015, which we have to deal with today under case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I didn't mean to say so much about it, but what I was really thinking was to give some praise to the council. When Stortinget discovered that there was an error in the proposition concerning the new coordination rule for people without disability from popular security, but with disability pension from occupational retirement provision, and that no one would get worse, but that it turned out that quite a lot of people would be much worse off, the Council of State should be pleased that he rose around and responded positively to the Stortingen's enquiry. But when Heggelund says that the red-greens won't quite acknowledge the misreform, I really don't understand what he means by it, because we do. But what we're not in on, on the other hand, is all of the rematches and cuts that the government parties are now trying to make in terms of what an almost total expansion decided in the last period. What we all agreed on was that no one should lose, but in this period, the Right Party and the Advance Party have tried to fight back on things they lost in the last period when it was about the unfinished reform. This applies, for example: now submitted to attempt to remove the partial screening of the vitality adjustment. There was a rematch on the question of determining income before disability. There was a rematch on the device of the children's supplement, where the Right and Advance Party stood alone in the previous period and remained alone now, fortunately. There has now been a proposal for a transitional arrangement for dealing with debt that would otherwise be lost. The working party wants the government to work with a permanent arrangement. There are now proposals on the table that will lead to cuts in housing support for disabled people if nothing is done. And the Labour Party has said in the vote of the Municipal Committee that we want the government to come back to the proposal in the revised National Budget 2015, where the income limit of housing support is adjusted as the general changes in salary and social security. It has to be fulfilled. We haven't received any signals yet. Of course, this also applies to cuts in basic social benefits, auxiliary benefits, cuts in car arrangements, which have improved for those who are in work or education, but worse for those who are so poor that work and education are not relevant. So we're in the process of misreform, and I'm a little in doubt if the Right Party and the Advance Party are standing by everything that's been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1268	The government, in its proposal for a government budget, provided the wealthiest in this country for the time being. Now, fortunately, the budget has not become the way the Right Party and the Advance Party would prefer it. It's not just the weakest in society that takes the bill for the richest of the country to get even more. Nevertheless, it is still the case that the honourable parliamentary leader said it when the conciliation was presented: the main steps are firm. The richest get more, and the bet on work and getting people into work is still too weak. The right does not seem to understand that it is possible to bet on the broad layers of the population to create a basis for growth in society. It is not through tax havens that age down from the rich table that this country has been built or will be built in the future. We see that the low-wage strategy we find in a number of industries is destructive, and today there is a very strong pressure on skills and labour standards – especially in professional parts of the world. This, together with under-covering professional competences and an increasing inclusion challenge, needs to be seen in the context of how to meet the challenge of building the country for the future. In order to ensure a competent, productive and good working life, a strong boost is required for vocational training, a stronger response to social dumping and labour crime and a more inclusive working life. This is one of the main actions of the Workers' Party's alternative budget, and it is based on what is Norway's greatest competitive advantage: a highly educated population, with a high level of competence in all parts of production. This makes us adaptable, productive and innovative. We can sometimes get the impression in the political debate that all new solutions are being created in an office where people are sitting and thinking out clever ideas. Most in the labour force know that good new solutions are being created in the break-up of skilled workers and managers. The Labour Party has presented its fourth strategy in the fight against social dumping. If we are to make young people choose the professions that society will need in the future, we must create attractive jobs. Negative payroll, snuff and own health as a competitive element is not part of this. The government's commitment to the Labour Inspectorate and controls is good, but the sum of the government's employment policies is still negative for most. Finally, the Labour Party also launches an important boost in this budget. Let's get another grip. We see that the apprentice grant has to come up. It has to be at the same level as the cost of a third grade place in high school. It's taking the skilled worker seriously. It is taking the training of skilled workers seriously. It strengthens the quality, it makes education better, but it does not least make it more attractive to take in apprentices. It is an important step in building the Norway of the future, along with the other things that the Workers' Party is launching in its alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1283	The representative Heggelund claims that the Workers' Party has left the working line. His argument for this is that in our budgetary remarks, we criticise the government's proposal to change the child supplement. The reason why we criticise the government's changes to the children's supplement is that they do not fulfil the assumptions that the Brochmann Committee assumed that such a scheme could support the working line. It can help make this a trap of poverty. The poverty reduction measures required by the Brochmann Committee are not being implemented. But not only that: what does today's government do? Well, it goes even further. It is worth working, says the representative Heggelund. At the same time, he criticises SV for so-called paying people to work less, while his own government is increasing cash support, cutting kindergartens, making it more expensive to use kindergartens and proposing cut-offs in the transitional benefit that would have more – especially ladies – to social assistance. Is that the line of work? No, no, no. You've come up with a law on permitting that makes companies around the country cancel out people, where you could have done so before. This isn't the working line. It's not cut in paper, either. We in the Workers' Party are listening to professional advice. We listen to them, and we've always been on a line of work. While we were heading, most arrows pointed in the right direction. We employed more, the number of disabled people went down, sick leave went down, and we had fewer social assistance – precisely because we listen to professional advice and do more of what works. The IA agreement is a good example of that. When Stefan Heggelund and the Right Party and the Advance Party now at least discuss Karen's days and want to introduce norms, it's across everything we know works, across what the experts say works. We've seen it in Sweden. It creates more bureaucracy. Many have to go to work before they are healthy, but many also stay at home when they are healthy. It's a very little suitable solution. We in the Workers' Party are to listen to the social partners. We're listening to the scientists. We're on a working line that works. The government is doing the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1298	I'm a little surprised that the representative Trettebergstien brings out the word «Karensdags». It's not a debate at all, the government keeps today's sick pay system. The last government that proposed changes to the sickness pay scheme, it was the government of Stoltenberg. There is therefore no current policy for this government. In the case of the legislation on leave, the government follows the labour market closely. Former State Councilman Anniken Huitfeldt said that I had said that unemployment was going up, or something like that. What I said, is that unemployment has gone up a little, now that it has recently gone down, but the government is closely following the situation in the labour market, precisely in order to be able to take action if necessary. What we've seen is that Rogaland, West Agder and Hordaland are the most vulnerable states, says Else-May Botten. I believe that. I've been at a number of conferences in the West during the last few weeks, and not least in the last few days. What I hear is that some of the companies that don't have a workforce today say they're looking up – when January-February-March comes, when the permits go out and the notice period has expired – to hire these people. Therefore, there is reason to believe that many of these will actually get a job because they have the labour skills today. So if an employee of an enterprise gets sick – and that’s what he gets on average several times in a year – then the employer’s period for an enterprise is 16 days. If, instead of getting sick, the same employee is permitted, which is perhaps the best thing to do every four years, every five years or every six years – hopefully – the employer’s period is 20 days, i.e. four more days. And the difference between the red-green and our proposal is ten days. That's not what determines whether we have a law of placement that works or whether, feedback we get, shows that it works. In addition, this government has a government budget with large tax concessions to the same business community to contribute to jobs. In addition, we have a huge investment in knowledge, infrastructure, transportation, of which the same business community benefits. I think we have the possibility of a conversion that we wouldn't have otherwise. To Anniken Huitfeldt, I would also like to say that the tripartite cooperation works. The government is going to make a choice on that. Tripartite cooperation will also work in the future, but we do not have to agree or disagree with everything that is necessary for it to work or not to work. We're busy having a good dialogue. At the same time, it is strange what the former Council of State says today when she takes the floor. The reason why this government has high ambitions is that Anniken Huitfeldt was unable to solve when she was the Council of State: this with disability, an unemployment rate that was too high, and not least for people with disabilities and youth outside the labour market, there was too much work done. There this government has an important job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1311	In search of arguments to cut welfare, right-wing politicians are still out of the question of a so-called outreach, and Norway is apparently the frame of an unpremeditated explosion. They try to create an image of the number of unfinished paths in uncontrolled forms, and more and more people don't participate in the skill of the welfare state. Labour policy spokesperson in the previous period, Røe Isaksen, liked to talk in images that there had been a bomb under the welfare state. Robert Eriksson, as a stammering representative, claimed that the Stoltenberg government carried people away from work to social security and camouflaged unemployment. This baton has now been inherited by the staging representatives Kambe, Wiborg, Heggelund and Rotevatn, who sometimes appear most like walking Civita lectures. For those of us who think about an extra time before we automatically copy policies that have failed in our neighboring country, it's interesting to study the statistics. He shows that the world in many ways is the exact opposite of the right part here claims. If we compare the number of disabled people with the number of people employed, the ratio is completely stable over the last ten years. The part of the failure does not increase. Sick leave is now at the lowest level since the first IA agreement was signed in 2001. Yes, we have major challenges in the labour market. So do we. There's too many people with residual work or disabilities that we can't include today. And many people who could work full-time only work part-time. But the description of an alleged wave of social security with which the right-wing party defends its policy is nothing but grossly misleading. I think it is something special to try to present the greatest success of the welfare state as the biggest problem. The fact that people have security, even if they fall outside the labour market, is fundamentally positive. We also see that in employment, in employment participation in Norway, which is among the highest in the world. That's why it's the right party that has the explanation problems and the burden of proof when they want to cut the welfare. And I mean the argument doesn't hold the goal. We're all a couple of people who want to follow the line. For over 100 years, work for everyone has been our job no. One. But for the Workers' Party, there is a limit on how many Norwegian citizens are going to be pushed down a little bit to trade with them to get the exceptions from the rule that it's going to pay off to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1324	This really fits well, because I took the floor to comment a little by the representative Holen Bjørdal's intense defense for the existing. I think it's interesting that it doesn't make any impression on the Labour Party that Norway is the country in the OECD that uses the deciduous majority of gross domestic product on health-related social security benefits – twice as much as the average – that it doesn't impress the Workers' Party what we got on the radio today early on, that 40,000 stands outside both the working life and the Nav system and lives a messy existence without getting into work. What are the measures proposed? It is a continuation of everything the Labour Party has done in government – which has not worked. I also find it interesting that Holen Bjørdal talks about the countries around us, our European neighbours, and points out that it is quite clear that deregulation and liberalisation of the labour market have not worked. If there's something that's a desktop theory, that's exactly the reality of it. Let's look at the countries that have had challenges in the euro crisis and the debt crisis that have been in the last few years. Where's the growth going, where's the growth going again? Well, it's in Spain, it's in Ireland, and it's even now in Greece, where one has deregulated, one has liberalized, one has speeded up the economy again. Where's it going? It is in France, it is in Italy, which has huge challenges with tough structures in its labour markets, with little liberal legislation – where the Labour Party’s sister party is in government. It should be said that they have been called upon to liberalise, but labored to get an impact on it at trade union offices. There are dark clouds in the horizon. What's happening on the Norwegian pedestal is serious. So one has to ask himself the question: is this just a temporary drop, as many thought, or is it perhaps the beginning of something that many of us have talked about for a long time, a more permanent conversion? I think the last thing, and then I thought this violent, intense cry from the red-greens about spending more money on the permitting code is strange. It is used as a kind of truth witness that both employers and employees are for it. Yes, of course they are. Of course, they are because taxpayers have to take a greater part of the bill of leave, it is obvious. But if a few people go on to work, a free labour force, one's going to use all the wise heads that we all talk about, to build future industries, and they're going to have to get the chance to do that. The last thing we need is to start to fool around with the most important framework conditions for Norwegian working life, Norwegian business: the EEA Agreement, our international agreements, which representatives of the Central Party and SV strongly call for termination. The last thing we need is structural conservative social democrats with protectionist veins on their feet, with notorious reformatives and an infallible willingness to tax what exists in jobs and businesses. We now get a budget where we receive more refugees than anything, build more student buildings than anything, have a greater green tax return than anything and strengthen the working line. It's a budget I'm happy to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1335	The representative, Huitfeldt, made a comment that has become common from the Workers' Party recently, that we were under-communicating our policy in the election campaign. It's an accusation you can make every time you don't want to talk about your own policy. The election result was quite clear, so there is a broad majority on the Grand Duchy to make some adjustments in the labour-environment law, such as: will lower the thresholds into the labour market. The point is that we have a work environment law that is good for those who are at work, but which also makes it easy for those who are outside to get a foot in. I have been in debates with more people in this room where, among other things, has referred to an article that everyone can apply for on the website of the Central Bureau of Statistics, where you can see how temporary posts can be a stepping stone for permanent employment. Fredric Holen Bjørdal believes that we are over-dramatizing the development of disability in Norway. Apparently, he does not consider it to be of concern to all those under 30 years of age who have received a failure decision. I just remember that curve was rising steeply over the eight years the red-green parts crashed. The representative of the Trettebergstuen indicates that the proportion of the disabled went down under the red-green government, despite the fact that it has long been revealed that there is a masking of the real figures of disability in Norway. There's been a lot of talk about the perspective message here, and the civil parties are reading that message wrong. Well, the red-green parties wrote in their own notice that there has been a strong growth in health-related benefits in Norway, and that it cannot be explained with the situation in the labour market, that it cannot be explained that we have had poorer health in Norway. What is the answer to the red-green? Is it trying to make some changes in the welfare system, continuing to bet on the line of work? No, it's the status quo, and all the changes that are being made are said to be unsocial. Then I have to pay a little visit to the representative Karin Andersen, because she talked about the transitional benefit in her contribution, and how the transitional benefit is a success. Then it's time to ask her if she admits that SV was wrong when they went to turn the social benefits, which was nothing but a poverty trap when it was ten years old, into a three-year scheme. It was also unsocial, according to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1348	There has been a relatively predictable debate. But I also think that's a pity, because you can notice that all the posts from the opposition are about one thing: to be against any change and any kind of renewal. It's about criticizing. And it is often the role of the opposition to criticise, but there would have been an advantage if the opposition could also present its solutions to the challenges facing society, for example. when we have 650 000 people out of work. It is the result of the policy that has been pursued. Then we now have a new government, a new majority, which is clear that they want to address that issue, and want to come up with new and exciting proposals that can help many of those who want to get out of work, back to work. Then someone chooses to defend the systems, defend the established. When e.g. The Progress Party over many years has pointed out that Nav has significant challenges, we have met with silence. It's only now that we've got a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs who's set up an expert committee that goes through the entire Nav to figure out how to make it more effective. It's only now that we have a government that chooses to lower the threshold into working life. Then I get disappointed when I hear from this pulpit that people are talking about that some increased use of temporary employment becomes a layman's society. I would first like to remind you that everyone in this room is actually for temporary employment, because for many years there have been laws on temporary employment under different conditions. We have 207 000 people who are currently temporarily employed, and then I think it's wrong to call it a layman's society. Then there's someone who's been in that we should look at the research. I fully agree with that, and then it is interesting to see that of those who are temporarily employed, two out of three come into permanent employment after two years. It shows that it can work for someone. In particular, Truls Wickholm was within the standard phrase that the tax havens only go to the rich. Then I would just like to remind you that the government's proposal for changes in the property tax would result in 280,000 pensioners paying a reduced tax, and 100,000 pensioners would not pay a property tax. I believe that pensioners also deserve tax relief, like most people and business. It will keep people more of their own income, and not least it will also generate increased activity in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1359	It's almost so one has to say that one has to hear a lot before the ears of this. First of all, temporary employment: today, people get a job because the legislation is like that. That's exactly what the government wants to remove. To the representative Wiborg: he should go back and look at the Progress Party's draft budgets in Stortinget when the Nav reform was adopted. It was massive cut for years, which would have put Nav in a completely impossible situation if they had got it as they would. In the case of the transitional benefit, SV is put in government when it was changed to a social benefit that requires activity. In the 1990s, this may have been the case, but I would also like to remind you that the Right was against high school for everyone and kindergarten for everyone – some of the most important measures for more people to be at work. It's the story of the Right, and it's long and ugly in many areas. So it's SV that changed the transition amount to an activity benefit, and it works. This government has no line of work, it's an inheritance and wealth line. Helping means removing the income of those who find it most difficult. It's not working. I've been concerned that those who are in social assistance are going to get good follow-up, because I know that it works. That's why I'm disappointed that there's no more money for the qualification program, which is now evaluated, and which works very well. It gets a lot more into work. But this is not what the government wants to bet on. You don't put one penny into the community economy so that those in social assistance can get a good follow-up – and it works. For those who do so with a sense of reason, based on individual circumstances, see what is missing — whether it is health, qualification or what it is — and provide good and patient follow-up, it works. People get out of it. But getting less, being under compulsion, having to go on something inconsequential just because someone thinks it's good for you, doesn't work, because it seems daunting. I have heard several people here today say that it is part of the measures that have not worked well. I agree. It's depressing, it destroys someone who's forced to go on something that's not meaningful and that doesn't lead to it. For this reason, we should also use our senses and understand that doing this does not help the most disadvantaged. Quality measures must be provided. Nor does it help to say that there are many fewer measures to be taken, to sum up all the measures and then to submit them to tender. This will result in fewer people offering good measures. Here we need quality, and we need to work with someone who can, who builds up, who has the skills to help people, and who doesn't work with it to drive business sails, but to help people back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1378	One of the advantages of not being a politician, but employed in private business for 20 years first is of course to have work experience, such as everything from wardrobe keeper, secretary and office manager to market manager, debate editor and communications director. However, 20 years of working life have also given me experience as a permanent employee, temporary employee, permittee and unemployed person. Temporary employment gave me experience and a leg inside and led to permanent employment. Worst was it to be licensed. Having loyalty to an employer, but being on the hub for less than half pay felt insecure and difficult. Being unemployed, on the other hand, was a clear situation that allowed me to take temporary jobs while applying for other jobs. That so many here believe that permitting is a good thing for the workers is a mystery to me. It is primarily a grip for employers. So they can keep people on the taxpayers' account via Nav instead of competitors or other industries that need the skills get exactly the people they need. With my experience, some of the debate about the work environment and work becomes a little strange. I have noticed the criticism both from the employee organisations and from the opposition, especially at the point that an decoration does not provide opportunities for anyone else. Not surprisingly, I disagree. What about the employers, what do they say? Some say that yes, easier access to temporary employment will make them dare to invest a little more in untraditional employment, as one with special needs, or with holes in the CV. And I choose to believe them in it. But frankly, I think this will primarily give you e.g. growth enterprises are able to employ as many as they need for just growth. Therefore, I was not surprised that it was just a company that was used as an example in Dagsrevyen. A committed founder said that an embellishment of the Working Environment Act would allow them to dry out more, thus increasing their chances of success and in the long run providing permanent employment, and fixed employment was the goal. Permanent employment is also the general rule of the new provisions proposed, and for most employers, the provisions are totally unnecessary. Fixed employment provides safety not only to the employee but also to the employer. It costs a lot to have a so-called high turnover with ever-increasing new people to be trained and followed up. For most enterprises it is profitable to have a good working environment, with a steady turnover, because it ensures both continuity, renewal and loyalty. When more than 700,000 people of working age are wholly or partly outside the labour force, the Labour Environment Act cannot be a protection law only for those who have a job, but must also be a law that gives those who are outside a new opportunity to get a job. When we soften the regulations, we lower the threshold both for employers who are going to work and for those who want a job. This lowers the risk to the employer and gives more opportunities for work. I know that as a young worker, I appreciated that opportunity, and therefore, of course, I support the government's proposal. It is possible that I will need that chance again when in the future as a fired politician I have to compensate for having been out of work for several years and to be reintegrated into productive work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1393	The plurals have been agreed on a conversion of the child plugin. No one shall be able to benefit better from social security than the earnings before disability. Therefore, from the New Year, a ceiling of 95 pst is introduced. the net degree of compensation, i.e. max. 95 pst. of employee income before disability. Most people think this will strengthen the taskbar. Yes, it may be, but I think it's a brutal way of interpreting the line of work. I think it's alarming that we've had a debate in the fall where there's not to be an accident, and where child-rich families are almost labeled as social security addicts. I listened at Political Quarter that day where even the Christian People's Party argued for and defended the new agreement that poor families with illegitimate parents should not get too much. The large cut that the government first proposed in the children's supplement by switching from the need test to the standardised children's supplement was put right away in the negotiations, and that was very good. The negotiated proposal has been improved against the government's original proposal, but the new model has unfortunate consequences for the economy of many disadvantaged families with more children today living on and depending on that income. Changing the child supplement without introducing compensatory measures I think I am very unsolidated and will not exactly contribute to reducing child poverty in Norway. Then it's probably also so that many disabled people are not able to work anymore. I thought it was both unfair and failed to weaken the incomes of miscarriage with the responsibility of several children. The model proposed by the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party is unfortunate and will be able to lock those who had low incomes before they were ill, e.g. part-time workers, in a very difficult economic situation. In rare cases, the term ‘being healthy and rich is better than being poor and sick’ is more appropriate. The centre party opposes the introduction of a 95 pst-tested child add-on roof. of income before disability, because we think it frameworks economically weak families with children. Where is the child perspective in this debate? Should we punish children because they have illegitimate parents? The center party thinks that society has to set up in some cases, even though the performances combined provide something greater than the income that one had before one was ill and disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1405	One of the most important things that politicians can contribute to is to invest in good education. We know that good education is essential for each one to realize its talent and for society to evolve further. Education is therefore the best industrial policy, the best social policy and the best integration policy. That is why the government is placing massive emphasis on education. We give priority to what is most important in school, namely teachers. We're using over 1 billion. kr at Lærerlöftet in 2015. The Government has increased the appropriations for further training by 695 million. kr only in the last year. In 2013, the red-green government spent 340 million. kr for further training. This shows the enormous shift in the pace of the Right-Fremskritspart government. It's not very certain we can say about the future, but we know that we're going to lack skilled workers. For this reason, the government will implement a professional lift. The government has three main objectives for this profession: closer cooperation between school and business, more flexible courses in vocational and vocational training and better quality and relevance in training. We have increased the apprenticeship grant twice in two years, and the last increase in the apprenticeship grant was in 2009. It's been five years. That's why it's a little hollow to listen to the Workers' Party, which makes the government's professional position as bad. With the increase in the year's budget of NOK 4 000 per contract, the apprenticeship allowance has also increased by NOK 7 500 in total since we took over from the red-green ones. In 2015 we have also granted 8 million. The aim is to provide professional trainers with a regular opportunity to update their skills so that they learn more. In the supplementary proposal for 2014, we granted 114 million. additional to professional and professional training, and emphasis was placed on measures to improve conditions for enterprises and to enhance the quality of training, inter alia. increased apprenticeship grants and additional grants to enterprises that cater for pupils with special needs. The Education Directorate has also been given a mandate to identify the equipment situation in secondary education in order to improve the knowledge base. It's because we don't know where the biggest challenges are. A number of schemes are also continued in 2015, including: the appropriations for social contracts, training courses and incentives. So it's not right, as the red-green side claims, that the government parties don't care about the professions. We have great ambitions on behalf of the professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1422	The representative Sveinung Rotevatn has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1425	Finally, I take the floor to respond to the attack by the representative of Pál Yasin Ezzari. It's good and good with those who are organized, the ones who have tariffs, the ones who have good pay. But what about the non-organized half? What about the car wash that costs $40 an hour, legally – what about him? I found it disappointing with this very reluctance to get more knowledge on the table. It's just one thing to ask, to look at how to adapt a system to Norway, so that we can make sure that even those at the bottom of the table have a decent salary to live on. The introduction of national minimum wage was a battle cause for the workers’ party in Germany. It's not exactly a country in crisis. But now it's introduced, and one's got a significant boost for those who were in the low-income groups. Nor is it the way organized work goes massively against this. This ring is supported by actions. They see the fight against the unprofessional, take it seriously. The YS was interested in getting knowledge on the table, saw the need for it. It's disappointing that the red-green don't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1434	I took the floor when I heard the representative from Kambe talk about the law on permitting. It has been interesting to sit and listen to today's debate. The government has spoken about black clouds. Yes, in the West we see these black clouds. So far this year, 10,000 jobs have disappeared in the oil service industry. Analyses say that 12 000–13,000 jobs will disappear in 2015. So what does the government do with this when you see these numbers? The government doubles the costs of companies with permits, and the chairman of the committee, Kambe, minimizes these ten days. He should have spoken to Nav adviser Gustav Svane in Rogaland, his own home country, who sees the consequences of government policy. The Nav consultant says that he now sees similarities to the financial crisis, but the difference is that there are now more redundancies than permitations. In Rogaland, there were 2,326 redundancies in September and only 181 lay-offs — almost 13 times as many lay-offs as permits, and this in Kambe’s own home country. 2 326 families are affected. This is not family-friendly policy. The Workers' Party shall lead and strengthen the rules of leave. We're betting on what works, and we're not giving in until the government comes after. There is a need for concrete action, and it seems that everyone outside the government has understood the seriousness. The NHO requires action, the LO requires action, and we in the opposition propose action. The representative Kambe said he would wait and see, just wait a little longer, wait to act. Hand-held power has become waiting power. The Prime Minister said in the finance debate that she was afraid of a relapse. I wonder if she's read her own budget. For this budget, there is a relapse into old-fashioned right-wing policy. There's more to those who have the most, and there'll be bigger differences. There are far from any new ideas that many people have tried to talk about here today. That's why I'm glad that the opposition at least shows that a different direction is possible. I think the voters see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1445	Let me start with the representative Lise Christoffersen, who made a recommendation that I should get order on Nav. Yes, therefore, this government has also set up an expert committee to carry out a comprehensive review of Nav. It also proposed to sign as an opposition policy. At the time, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre voted against the proposal. We're following up on the government and doing that review, and we've already started several actions that will lift users' experiences, users' rights, and provide more correct and closer follow-up, precisely because we want to improve Nav and the challenges Nav faces. We're doing this in close cooperation with Nav. So you say in relation to social assistance that this is almost like failing the users. I agree with Karin Andersen that we need to use the qualification programme more. That is why I also met with the county officials last week to make sure that the municipalities use the places available for the qualification programme. Many municipalities don't, they don't exploit the potential that is. Let's first exploit the potential that is. Then it's important to meet people with respect and take people seriously. Good activity requirements are also set. This does not apply only to the individual user. Karin Andersen says that they are sent to meaningless activity. No, the municipalities are obliged to give meaningful activity, which ensures that you get back to work or education, as you have done in the municipality of Fjell, as you have done in Kvinesdal, as you have done in Verdalen – and I could have rammed many municipalities. That's what's the whole point, that we take people seriously instead of meeting them with indifference. Then to the law of permacy. I wonder at the intervention of the representative of Botten, where she refers to my municipality and to Kværner Verdal. Yeah, there's a part in Verdalen that's now going to Stord and working. But isn't that good? Does the Workers' Party really think that it would have been a better policy to say that those people should have gone down 38 pst. in pay and stay at home in Verdalen and receive a daily allowance, instead of being in full employment? That's what it's argued for, and if that's right, it's a policy I'm taking a great distance from. I believe that it is much better that those people get the opportunity to participate in the working life, be in Great and get their income. It is also not right that we do not follow up on the Brochmann committee. What did the Brochmann Committee say? Well, the Brochmann Committee said you had to turn more from benefits to services. That is why this government has strengthened the appropriations for holidays for everyone and has now made it possible for several young people to take part in leisure activities. That's why we've reduced the children's home expenses for them with the worst advice. That's why we've increased the core time. That is why we have also added the scholarships, so that those who grow up with poor parents get better scholarships and can get NOK 10,000 more per year. We follow up the Brochmann Committee as recommended by the Brochmann Committee, and do it in a good and correct way, as well as having a good welfare policy at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1458	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1461	Political leadership is to be changeable, to decide on conflicts, to say yes to new actions – and I promise that the Centre Party will be involved. But for the Central Party, at the same time, the social goal of a jealous economic relationship between people is solid. We now need to take strong action in Norway against the attacks that are taking place against this target. This happens in the labour market by the fact that Norwegian collective agreements and Norwegian labour law no longer take precedence over EU rules on permanent employment, which are challenged by temporary employment through what many have said is an international labour society. The left of the Labour and Social Committee is currently headed by an economic liberalist, who is therefore naturally a member of the minimum wage. However, the representative Rotevatn cannot clearly answer no to whether the level of the minimum wage should be 30-50 pst. of normal income in the future. There's going to be a tough debate about work. The center party is happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1470	The representative, Erlend Wiborg, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1473	In the case of minimum wages, today it is presented as either having today's wage formation system or having a minimum wage. It is possible to have a combination of both systems, which will also contribute to the 50 percent that are currently not trade-unorganised. What the proposal is about, as Rotevatn has also been involved, is to get an investigation into this and get the facts, the possibilities, the benefits and the disadvantages on the table, but unfortunately it does not want the majority here today. I also took the floor to give the Socialist Left Party the opportunity to respond to my line – which they did not respond to instead – which is that the Socialist Left Party is aware that the fight against poverty is an overall goal. At the same time, they are more or less all forms of tax relief, and the Socialist Left proposed a reduced dividend tax on dividends. My question is, how does it benefit the poor in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1480	Several have taken the word to criticize the Christian People's Party for the solution to the children's supplement. I therefore need to clarify why I think it is good reason to defend the solution we have come up with. What was the question was whether we should have a test of need or a standardised solution. As I have said repeatedly, I think it was a dilemma, because I see the arguments for standardisation, I see the arguments of the Brochmann Committee, I see the arguments for the line of work. But then I believe the counter-arguments against standardisation, which went for 7 000 kroner per child instead of a test of needs up to 35 000 kroner per child, is that it will affect many people who will never be able to get to work. So it's going to be right on the bottom line, and they're going to be able to hit pretty much. And that's why I think it's a big saying that we did the needs tests, so it's still going to be the way that those who need the most child supplement will still get it. Then I believe it is entirely right to say that one should not get more than 95 pst. paid out than you had before you were illiterate. It is that disability benefit is a social benefit for the loss of income. It should not be that you get unlimited support in addition, I believe. It is about the legitimacy of the social security system, and one – which we were concerned about – should find a lasting solution, so that the disabled who have children should also be safe about how the scheme should be. Then I will also acknowledge that it is not fun to hear that there are 4,500 children who are affected by the conversion that the Storting is now going to adopt. But I'm very proud that over 28,000 children come out much better now than after the government proposal. That is why I think it is a great victory. Because, on the other hand, if you are in a low-paid job – you get 250,000 kroner, 300,000 dollars, 350,000 dollars – you don't get more paid if you have many children. On the contrary, perhaps the challenge is that if you have a lot of children, you have to go into the position and get paid in order to be able to take care of your children. That is why I believe that the scheme that the Storting will now adopt will be good, and hopefully it will also be permanent. In addition, we have fought through, for example: increased possibility of free kindergarten for 4-5 year-olds. In the budget agreement, it's 20 million. NOK 50 million in addition to those – now I do not remember the number –. kr, I think, as the government included in the grant scheme for poor children's families, and the same with holiday arrangements etc. I think it's a good order, a system that creates legitimacy for the social security system, and that hopefully can be lasting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1495	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1499	The council said the Workers' Party has not read the Brochmann Committee's position. Well, we've read the Brochmann Committee's settings – and we've read the entire settings from the Brochmann Committee. Firstly, the Brochmann Committee points to a solution with a roof, but they have some assumptions that the government does not meet. The first is that the money you save will be spent along with a larger amount of targeted services against these poor children. The government doesn't, they don't. What else does the Brochmann Committee say? Well, the Brochmann Committee also warns against what the government is doing: increasing cash support, paying people for not working, cutting babysitting, more expensive kindergartens. This is also part of the Brochmann committee and what they warn against. The government has no workline, opposite. They pay people not to work and make more families poorer. It is something other than the Labour Party's line of work, which is about to get people into work and activity through targeted and supportive labour market measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1508	Towards the end of the debate: in this debate, and sometimes in the United Kingdom, it has been mentioned — perhaps too often — that Norway is the world’s best country to live in. Despite the mismanagement to which Norway has been subjected under the red-green government, which some representatives have presented here, this is the case. There are some reasons for that, and there are some criteria for that. One of the main reasons for this is that Norway is a country with small differences. Now, when we adopt the budget to be adopted here today, greater differences are adopted – against our votes. So we are going against one of the things that have made Norway the world's best country to live in, because the new government clearly believes that rich people are being stimulated by getting more money and that poor people are being stimulated by getting less money. Another reason that has helped us to make good use of this type of international comparison – there are, of course, many reasons – is the order and not least the cooperation that we have in the labour market between the parties and the authorities, and as far as the organised Norway and the authorities in general are concerned. Several have mentioned the Working Environment Act – which I thought we should wait for it to be discussed here – and in the proposal for amendments to the Working Environment Act that have been tabled, we see that the professional offices of the Department are opposed, the Labour Inspectorate warns, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work warned against some of the things that happen when the Work Environment Act is amended, and an overall labour page in Norway is opposed, just as with the rules of leave, where an overall employer's side and an overall employee's side now agree with what Robert Eriksson believed when he was a Trustee. But anyway, the government doesn't listen to that, the government knows better. If the map and the terrain are not right, the government is convinced that it is the map that is right. It draws us in the wrong direction in relation to the ambition to keep us high on the statistics of the countries in which it is best to live. In the past, the current Council of State was Eriksson's opposition politician, and I think he pointed out many times in a way further on the same path as the red-green government stood on. He criticised the pension schemes for being too poor, he criticised the law of leave for not being good enough, and he believed that we should put in place further measures for the welfare society of Norway. Yes, the then representative Eriksson was a man of very great words – of great, empty words.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1519	I think there have been little constructive contributions from the red-green side of the debate here today. There's a lot of black paint on the submitted budget. I think the Labour Party has not come up with any new steps or proposals to help facilitate more people entering the labour market – a party that has been talking hot and loud about the working line for years. There are no new thoughts – just to continue with what has been tried until now. Is the Labour Party satisfied that we have so many people of working age outside of the labour market? We have a relatively low unemployment rate, but there are 650,000 who have health-related benefits, or who have social security and are out of work – and some unemployed. Does the Labour Party think that the measures we have now are good enough? I find it strange that they are not willing to try anything new to help more people get a leg inside. Temporary employment has been a lot of talk about today. From the government's side, there's a desire to try to get to it. It has been shown that there has been a springboard into the workplace for many – several have been given a permanent position. With today's legislation, it is possible to get a temporary position if, for example: shall replace a sick report or a Vicariat – a so-called vacant post. Now the government wants to soften this up, so that more people can try and get the entrance that has proved to be good for very many, who have got fixed employment after a time as a temporary employee. This is not a rage, but a careful decoration, with clear limitations, so that it should not be abused. No, the government's policy does not lead us in the wrong direction – it leads us in the right direction by getting more people into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1535	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1538	First to tax – to the representative Wiborg: he gets to read the SV's alternative budget, where we give tax credits to anyone who earns less than NOK 600 000. We give good tax relief to them, because they are the ones who can increase their job offer, as it is called, while people like us, who earn well, we can well – and should well – maybe not work more than what we do. We don't need tax havens. We give the tax credit where it should be, and we also light up to the companies, but we increase the progressiveness of both the property tax and the income tax. I very much agree with what the representative Kjersti Toppe said about this with the children's supplement in the disability suit. It is this way – to the representative of Ropstad – that this is a loss of the ability of the usual wage increase that we have to change jobs and to work overtime. These are children who live with parents who have had extremely low incomes before, and who the rest of their childhood is now going to live in poverty because the Christian People's Party thinks that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1545	If, after a year, the government parties are offended that we're going to discuss what's government's new policy, then you're starting to get tired quite early. For my main point, it was that throughout the election campaign, what is the current government parties did not want to discuss the power relationship between employers and employees. They wanted to shift the debate on the middle line of Norwegian labour policy, they wanted to approach the trade union movement – the right party would go to the left. But what do we see now? So we see proposals that are relatively extreme and that meet an overall opposition from the employee organisations. Former Labour Policy Spokesman of the Right, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, said that they would implement changes that would be heard by the workers – that is what the parties were elected to – and if you are offended that it is now being drawn out as part of the discussion, yes, then you get quite tired! Then it's about how to get more people into work. The former government launched a big message with a lot of offensive grips, such as several places of action and more pay subsidies to get people out of work. What the current government has done is to sit and work with a big message without any new action, except for one: several temporary jobs. And those who work with vulnerable groups in the labour market are saying the opposite: temporary employment does not help the weakest, rather the weakest, on the contrary, and the countries that have tried it have not got any more weak groups into the labour market. So here there are no new measures, and I think the government has become quite early tired if they do not tolerate discussion about this. The biggest disappointment I think is action places, because that's the really important way to get people out of work, and when it's cut in, you cut in the very most important tool to get more people out of work, into the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1554	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1557	Just a little comment on the last post by the representative Bente Stein Mathisen, who calls for the will of the red-greens to try something new: this is the rhetoric that, among other things, is. The right hand used in the election campaign, ‘try something new’ – and give the impression that something revolutionary is coming here that really is going to lead the way in the election. But temporary jobs are not new. The obligation to operate is not new. Wages and salaries supplements are nothing new. There is no new cut in action locations. Commercialisation of measures is also not new. Cut into social security schemes and social benefits is nothing new. When reference is made to temporary jobs giving people opportunities, yes, it is in today's legislation. In Sweden, they have further legislation, and there are 39 000 who have been on temporary posts for more than five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1562	The representative, Arve Kambe, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1565	In practice, the Labour and Social Committee has one third of the State budget. It is a great responsibility and we agree on the budget today. When I say agree, it means that the vast majority of the money that is granted from the Storting is unanimous. It is a credit to the Stortinget, for there is a great deal of upsurge in welfare systems in Norway. There is a high rise in the targets for low unemployment, high employment and stable crown prices, but we believe that our proposals go in a better direction than the red-green ones. Then I think the trend is, especially from the Labour Party, when we read their alternative state budget, that they have used the year poorly in opposition. Only copies of the revised proposals or drawn proposals from red-green messages have been produced. I think if you want to win a choice, you don't do it by repeating what you've done before. Elections are being won with a new policy, and today's debate shows that the Labour Party has no new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1573	I have followed this debate from the office, and I must say that there is no doubt about what this is all about. This is part of the major government project to change Norway, as has been said. What you're trying to say is that this is modernity. This is where the right-hand side – and unfortunately also the left-hand side – takes a lot of mistakes. There are no examples anywhere, as several representatives have already said, that this leads a society into a modern direction. – I'm just saying it first. That the right-hand side in Norway means this – that’s what this right-hand side stands for, that’s what the right-hand parts are. But what I don't understand is that the NHO supports it, as they do now. One is, of course, that they challenge party cooperation, but what the NHO doesn't see, and as I don't understand that they don't see, is that it undermines their position in the next round as well. This temporaryity and this approach to working life will attack the orderly working life, and the NHO is part of it. They are probably blinded by the hope that it will give them easier relationships and faster profits, but it will only take a short while. This is what we see in all other countries, where business and value creation fall, too, because employment is not properly organised. If you were as capitalist as the representative Rotevatn is, I would really think about it before going along such a trail, because the return on capital requires the stable society and the stable working life, and that's not what you get with these arrangements. You don't have to be a social democrat to mean that. You can go to both economists and research to get demonstrated. The representative Rotevatn, who is so strongly attached to what he calls research and science, should actually go to it and base it on this debate and not be blinded by his own liberalist thinking, as it really is, because it's not liberal thinking. This is a violation of the fundamental historical role of the Left. This is liberalism, not liberal, as Rotevatn tries to call it and tries to cover his argument. It's wrong, and that's why I wanted to say this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1580	It's true that we live in one of the world's best countries. That is why I think it is a strange analysis of the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, to say that this budget will help us to stop living in the world's best country. One of the main efforts of the government is just to realize the knowledge society. We know that we need to create values in the future to secure the welfare society, not only for us who are here today, but also for children and grandchildren who come after us. In order to create new jobs and to secure the jobs we have today, we know that we need to have a massive investment in school. This is what the government does, among other things. through a large-scale effort on teachers. In addition, this budget includes a strong commitment – a growth – in the university and higher education sectors to contribute to improving the quality of our educational institutions, not to mention the shift we see in research policy after Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister. What we need to do to ensure that Norway is the best country in the world to live in, including in the future, is to invest in knowledge through kindergarten, through school, through education and research, and to facilitate the creation of jobs – also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1591	The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1594	We will all create the world's best country to live in, but the policy from the right and the policy from the left will not create the best country for the same groups. That's the difference here. For a good society – and the reason why we are assigned to the world’s best country to live in – is that we have little differences. It's about a society with little differences being a society based on trust, with low crime, with mobilization, where you can take education and have a career path regardless of where you come from. But that requires a policy that actually uses the large sums of the important tasks, where we spend them on community and welfare rather than on the tax havens of the rich. We see that distinction in the debate here, where the red-greens still want Norway not only to be the best country for anyone, but the world's fairest country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1599	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 5. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 to 9 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1648	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group and 10 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1655	SV is, as I see it, on a fundamental basis completely contrary to the fact that private operators are going to solve some of our welfare tasks. In the proposal for a representative, Document 8:76 S for 2013–2014, they claim that job clearance and follow-up services are not suitable for shops, and they further say that if private service providers do not have access to them, they will only be concerned with profit, and it will go beyond ethical standards and quality of service. This attitude testifies to very little trust in professionals and leaders in all the private welfare institutions we have here in the country. I am sure that nurses do not change the behaviour and the way to work if they work in a private company. High ethical standards and professional integrity will be important, whether working in a public hospital or in a privately operated hospital. The same will apply to a joiner or a supervisor, whether it is working in the operational department of a municipality or in a privately operated management company. The majority of the Committee do not share the negative views of private actors on red-green. The majority are concerned with the diversity of service provision and wish to welcome more providers. The tenders shall contain clear criteria of quality, individual follow-up and predictability for those to be applied for. Nav already purchases a limited share of clearance services and follow-up services. There are currently two work clearance schemes and two follow-up services. Clearance in ordinary activities is acquired in open competition under the procurement rules, and clearance in protected activities buys Nav from reintroduction and growth enterprises without competition. The same applies to the follow-up service. One follow-up service acquires Nav in open competition, the other, Work with assistance, purchases Nav from the approved action companies without competition. There is something that is not true when we are dealing with two partly overlapping measures in terms of job clearance and follow-up, but which have quite different conditions. The majority refers to a legal assessment carried out by Mr. Kluge Lawyer on the procurement rules for the measures currently reserved for recreational andgrowth holdings. The conclusion is that these acquisitions are purchases of services to be governed by procurement law. The previous government recognised in Meld. St. 46 for 2012–2013 Several are working that today’s scheme does not comply with the legislation, and that one would further assess this. Now the government of Solberg is ruling, and they're taking this seriously and they're going to clean up the situation. The Government therefore proposes to simplify the action systems by merging them into a single system of redundancy and a system of follow-up services. It will provide a more transparent and simpler response system, better adapted to people’s needs for help, and easier to deal with both those who work in the hub, employers and jobseekers. Both new systems of measures shall be acquired in accordance with the procurement rules. The purchase of labour market measures in open competition does not change the content and quality of the offers or the professional content and quality of the measures. We are dealing with the same user group, which needs security, support and predictability, both in the clarification situation, in the training process and in the rehabilitation work against life. Clear criteria must be established for this and for which follow-up is needed in the tenders. The government announces that there will be a closer follow-up to the performance of suppliers both in terms of quality and transition to work. Nav will set specific quality requirements for suppliers to demonstrate compliance. The results of the implementation of the measures shall be subject to requirements. By opening up equal conditions of competition, we get more players on the track and not fewer, as Karin Andersen said in an article earlier today. Several actors will be better able to cover the variation in the complex needs of users for help to get into work. It's very much about motivation. With increased freedom of choice, it will be easier to find an offer that coincides with the individual's qualifications and professional preferences. It is claimed that if more competition is opened up, the basis for the long-term uncompetitive establishments in the labour and growth sectors is destroyed. Many of the relaying and growing businesses are very well run, they can show good results and do not have to fear tendering. They will compete well with the experience and competence they possess. In addition, there is room for other actors, such as drug users. The mob project, which is part of Ferd Social Entrepreneurs. The mob project works with young people who are outside the established school system and working life. They work untraditionally and are able to motivate many young people who have given up, return to work or further education. Since the start of the project in 2007, they have had 1,600 mobs in the project, and 94 pst. Of these, they are at work, during education or on their way to work — a rather good percentage. Diversity is important and it opens up to creativity and new solutions. Different people need different offers. In the work of including as much as possible in working life, we must let go of all good forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1678	There are important representative proposals now under consideration, and I want to spend my speaking time on three of the proposals. The first is the proposal by the Labour Party representatives on better job opportunities for people with disabilities. The Central Party will refer to the Nordic model report towards 2030 – A new chapter? The final report of the joint Nordic research project Weathering or renewal in the Nordic region 2014–2030 – in short: NordMod 2030 – which has looked at how national and international changes affect the Nordic model of society. The final report says, among other things: the following on labour immigration and pressure on the Nordic model: «The recruitment of migrant workers is usually strongest in sectors with low qualifications, manual work, low level of organisation, and poor pay and working conditions. This may lead to a weakening of the system of wage formation, a reduction in productivity growth, a break-up of the wage floor and an increase in wage and income disparities. Research from Norway shows that increased immigration has a measurable effect on wage levels [[...]] The centre party believes that the Storting in discussing measures for people with disabilities can no longer ignore the very large influx of foreign labour into Norway over the last decade, and that it has been so great that we have had a displacement effect that has been of the most marked. The exacerbation effect means that established workers or persons who are weak in the labour market are at risk of being out of competition by new workers from abroad. Immigrants and persons with reduced working capacity are examples of groups of workers exposed to this competition. People with disabilities are currently being pushed out of the labour market; exclusion mechanisms are increasing. In this context, the Centre Party shall promote the following proposals: ‘The size of the government provides an assessment of the impact on the employment of people with reduced working capacity as a result of the very large volume of foreign labour from the EEA territory.’ I'm addressing the proposal. The next issue is the proposal from Karin Andersen and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that young people with disabilities be entitled to labour market measures in the same way as those receiving redundancy benefits.’ There is an overall committee that agrees with the proposers that society has an important obligation to facilitate the return of as many people as possible to work. Proposalers believe that a number of those who are disqualified as young people may be able to come back to work in part or in full at a later stage if proper help is provided. There is an overall committee which points out that the proposers have no right today to participate in the apparatus managed by Nav. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the representative of the Socialist Left Party, subscribes to the Council of State's response and conclusion that it is not appropriate to promote legislative proposals which give young unemployed persons a general right to work-oriented measures in line with beneficiaries of redundancy payments. But there is an overall committee that believes that modern medicine and the time in itself can work for some to become healthier and thus come back fully or partly in income-bearing work, so that the disability can fall completely or partly away. The members of the Committee of the Centre Party and the Labour Party consider that, in this context, in the age group, 20 to 30 years of age should be diagnosed in order to be more healthy, and I stress the right – every two years – to medical evaluation by Nav to assess whether the health situation has improved so that a person has the opportunity to do work. If the answer to that question is yes, the unemployee must be entitled to labour market measures in line with the recipients of redundancy benefits, while at the same time having the right to receive back dissatisfaction if the job attempt has to be reported. To this end, the Workers' Party and the Centre promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that every two years young people be given the right to medical assessment through Nav, in order to give them the right to work-oriented measures in better health and safety in line with those receiving redundancy benefits.’ [[20-30 years]] The majority – the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – reject this proposal, while SV promotes its proposal that underpins the process we are now in. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Finally, there is a very important matter from Karin Andersen and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who say: «The government is asked to introduce the right to education, training and/or guidance and employment services within three months for young people under 25 who are not in education or employment. This right shall not replace ordinary study funding.’;» It is an overall committee which indicates that young unemployed persons aged 20 to 24 are guaranteed an activity plan within one month of receiving a Nav decision indicating that they need labour-oriented assistance. Furthermore, there is an overall committee that says that the Council's letter of reply states that among young people with reduced working capacity between 20 and 29 years of age, a target of 90 pst has been set. the target population must at all times have an approved activity plan and that it is the follow-up point itself — not necessarily the action. Furthermore, measures covering a wide range of instruments may be relevant to address health or the social situation of individual young people. In addition, the guarantee of job-oriented measures remains valid for young people under 20 years of age. There is also an overall committee that believes that the aim of the forthcoming communication on lifelong learning and exclusion is to develop a new and comprehensive policy for adults with weak basic skills. The entire Committee is pleased that the Council of State warns that measures for young adults who are neither at work nor in education will be discussed further in this work. So far the consensus. Furthermore, there is a minority from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party who believe that the challenges of getting young people under the age of 25 – and who do not have a working disability – are so great that they propose new measures. These members therefore feel that it must be made economically attractive for both public and private employers to hire young people under 25 years of age, who are neither at work nor under education, as apprentices. And there we are at the point – apprentices. So we are in the situation that a number of young people in the 20-25 age group don't have work, they don't have education, they're not apprentices, and then we have to think about new things. This minority then has the following proposals: ‘The government is asked in the forthcoming Lifelong Learning and Exterior Communication to concreteise a new option that gives employers incentives to employ young people under the age of 25 who live in Norway, cf. law on population registration, which is neither under education nor at work, as apprentices.’;» Apprenticeship is a well-known concept, including: in the case of the employment of young people in the municipalities. So, as the name says, it's important to learn more about a subject – for a two-year period. Learning more in a subject will also provide the basis for increased income through their work for this young person, who is an apprentice. This will be an agreement between the jobseeker, the employer and the Nav. It's a way to rethink just to target it practically in terms of work. Clarifications and plans, youth action plans — well, we have seen a lot of that, but what is the big deficiency are practical jobs for the group of young people who want to have something to go to, want to learn more, and thus want to have respect for their work, by showing that a sheep can do something. Here we have opportunities, and that is the proposal of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1737	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1740	For the Labour Party, the main priority is to put in place reforms and measures to boost the working line and the goal of work for all. Examples of this are the pension reform and the new disability reform, which should make it easier to combine disability benefits with regular work. Another example is the job strategy for people with disabilities from 2012. Unfortunately, as a society, we are not in the goal of including everyone in the world of work, and the need is still there for the renewal and further development of labour and welfare policies, so that more people can take part in the labour market – especially in view of the fact that Nav has registered more than 200,000 people with reduced working capacity. It is a goal for the Workers' Party that people with reduced working capacity should be able to enter work to a greater extent than at present, possibly in combination with a graduated disability. A major challenge is that many people of working age are out of work and accept health-related benefits. It was to meet these challenges that the Stoltenberg government in the autumn of 2013 submitted a Report. St. 46 for 2012–2013, More at Work – a message that unfortunately the Right Party and the Progress Party withdrew. This means that over a year has passed without any action in this area, except that the Council of State, Eriksson, has decided to commercialise labour law measures without consulting the Stortinget. What seems to me to the Labour Party is wrong, and we're staring at SV's proposal to stop increased commercialisation in this area. I'll come back to that. There is no room for humpbacks in the work of getting more people into the world of work. And this means that the Labour Party in Stortinget in June in Document 8:73 for 2013–2014 proposed some of the most important measures in our Report. St. 46 for 2012–2013 in the hope of getting the bulk of this into it, because we think it is necessary to have a strategy for better work opportunities for people with reduced working capacity and more use of grading in health-related performances. At the heart of such a strategy, we think that we need to put critical searchlights on how the world of work is today, what kind of opportunities it offers, and how public income insurance schemes, measures and services underpin labour participation. The aim of the Workers' Party is to ensure that the strategy allows the widest possible participation and maintenance of links with the ordinary working life. Our proposal for a strategy is based on two sub-strategies. Firstly, there is an association strategy, which contains measures to ensure social inclusion. It is particularly important for people who have reduced their working capacity due to health problems and who are therefore at risk of falling out of work. These must be kept in a position in a limited time and with work tasks they can master. The association strategy needs to be complemented by measures to include more of those with reduced working skills who are currently outside the labour market and who want to work. If a closed person is to ensure the association of those at risk of falling out of work, less in isolation will need assistance in order to get a job. Measures aimed at the demand side of the labour market could provide new work and include several of those that would otherwise have ended up with complete disability. By offering people with reduced working capacity a job that they can do better, one can also achieve a strengthening of the overall supply of work. The Labour Party felt that it was a good idea for the government and the support parties not to be involved in the development of such a strategy. We believe that it would lay the foundation for including several of those who are currently outside the labour market into income-giving work. Finally, I register that the government of the State Council now has, before the weekend, finally launched a communication on the instruments of labour market and welfare policy. That's good. We want to study her with interest. We have great expectations of the content, which the Council of State has spent over a year on. We look forward to dealing with her in Stortinget. In the meantime, I will take up the suggestions that the Labour Party is making on the matters that are under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1759	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1762	Today, we are discussing four proposals for representatives together. This is a challenge, because we want to talk about each proposal separately, while at the same time wanting to link some comments to individual proposals and to what is the same in the proposals. Let me first add some comments to the picture that the four suggestions draw when you look at them together. So here it's a seemingly good idea embodiment in the opposition. The Red-Greens believe that they have found several good measures for different groups who are struggling in the workplace and who may need help to get work done. However, when you look more critically at the proposals, it turns out that there is either little content, that there may be weak proposals, or there may be proposals that should perhaps best be seen in the context of other proposals. However, the most interesting is the following: by flagging their positions to a number of detached measures so early the opposition binds to the mast. They strongly argue for their proposals and seem blind to see the proposals in a context. When the opposition commits itself in this way, it will be very exciting to hear the debate – now that the government is making proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act and a communication on the labour market. It will also be very exciting to hear how the opposition reacts to constructive proposals from the group of experts currently undergoing Nav. The representative's proposal from the workers' party representatives is a good example of recycling old proposals. The points listed in the proposal are largely recycled from the employment message, as the previous government made clear at the very least by its government. In fact, it's pretty interesting to remember the time they made that announcement. It was just before the big shot, and at that time it was clear – at least for most of us – that the red-greens were very thin in getting a election tour. Most of them were expecting a change of government. Can we really take seriously a message presented just before the election? Can we really believe that the list of measures is realistic, and not just election campaigns? This proposal was easy in terms of content, and heavy in terms of electoral campaign rhetoric. It's not better today. That is why I am pleased that the current government has a much more realistic and positive approach to ensuring better job opportunities for those with disabilities. I am pleased that the government drew the big message «– More at work», and I am looking forward to a new case with more concrete measures. With regard to the proposal by the representative Karin Andersen to stop increasing the commercialisation of labour-oriented measures to ensure the best possible quality and performance in Nav, I was almost nostalgic and touched. Here's the good old SV that's come back. When I started politics, long before Kristin Halvorsen tried to make the Socialist Left Party a – let's say – more bona fide party, SV was a recognizable socialist party. They were against NATO, which they seem to have fattened under the carpet in recent years. They were in order to tax capitalists considerably more stringent than today and not give them tax relief, as we were told in the financial debate, where SV actually suggested that the dividend tax should be reduced. But now SV is back in good old form. So it shouldn't be allowed to think commercially when you're going to help people get into work. Those who are going to work – at least approx. Half of them — after all, they should be in commercial establishments, but it should not be allowed to think commercially. What is the enemy image that really exists in Karin Andersen's head? Is it really so hard to imagine that someone should be allowed to earn a penny or two, while at the same time doing a social work? I am pleased that such thoughts are mainly banished to the outside left, and I am pleased that today's government allows everyone who can contribute to do so. Being commercial — or non-profit, for that matter — is an enrichment in ensuring the best possible quality and best possible results of the labour-oriented action. The most important thing must be to get people to work, and then it must not be so crucial who is behind the employment measures. Representatives Karin Andersen and Snorre Serigstad Valen, from SV, want to provide all young people under 25 who are not in school or in work, a statutory right to education, competence, guidance and/or job offers within three months. The progress party greatly appreciates SV's commitment to the youth, and we appreciate SV's motivation to get young people to work, if possible. But we believe, like the Council of State, that it is not most appropriate to introduce a right that should apply to everyone under the age of 25. The Advance Party believes it is unfortunate that, on a principle, the age criterion is to be almost overestimated by the professional and individual priorities of the Nav offices. Focusing and resources must be directed towards those who need the most follow-up and organisation, as well as those who are closest to the labour market, and not based on a categorical criterion such as age. It is important that Nav’s resources are concentrated on those who need the most and those who really need Nav’s help. It is only with such a policy that Norway will succeed in getting as much work done as possible. The Party also considers that it would be unfair to legislate for such a right only for persons under 25 years of age. It is also not lucky to make young people Nav users at this young age. With regard to the proposal by Karin Andersen and Eidsvoll Holmås, of SV, to give young people the right to work market measures, in line with those receiving redundancy benefits, the Progress Party agrees that it is important that society helps to facilitate participation in the labour market as many as possible – a society with a large proportion of young people and non-pensioners suffering from mental illness. Many of these are mentally retarded or have a developmental disorder. Furthermore, many have nervous system disorders, malformations, or chromosome abnormalities. In view of these diagnostic groups, a system of periodic reconsideration of the disability pension will have little effect on getting more people out of work. Another factor is the use of resources — it will require considerable resources to help make relatively few people get into work. In order to strengthen the working line and increase the number of people working, it is probably better to prioritise the use of resources in Nav for those closest to the labour market. Another important option for disability pensioners today is job-oriented measures from the Employment and Welfare Act. This offer is given to all disabled persons who have little chance of reducing or becoming completely absent the disability pension. In view of the fact that the group of experts currently reviewing Nav will come up with a number of good actions on how to get more people in work and on the fact that they have not yet concluded in their work, the Progress Party believes that it is too early to draw conclusions on new follow-up actions to young disability pensioners. Consequently, it is important for us to await the work of the Nav Expert Committee and their recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1792	I'm going to try to work through the four different representative proposals. I start with the first, from the Labour Party in case no. 6th@item: inlistbox It is a proposal that I think contains many good measures. I was also in his time with and criticized the Council of State Eriksson for drawing the message more into work, and I felt that the message that came now on Friday was a good response to that message and also with several concrete measures. That is why I am pleased that the Labour Party has been impatient and has made proposals for many measures here. As I see it in the situation we now have, it would be best to take with us the recordings and the suggestions that lie there, which are not already caught up in the message that came on Friday, and use them in the work ahead. There is no doubt that we have the potential to improve the follow-up of people with disabilities who have started to fall out of work or who have fallen out of work and help them back again. There I believe, as the Christian People's Party has mentioned many times, that we also have a great job to do in getting people to take action, and people with disabilities, who by definition need assistance from Nav, must get it much faster. We will not support the proposals in case No. 6, but we are going to review the suggestions when we deal with the message that has just arrived. In the case of case No. 7, representatives from SV, I feel that there is something that is almost clear in the message that Stortinget now has the opportunity to discuss. SV wants to stop the commercialisation of labour-oriented measures to ensure the best possible quality and performance in Nav. I have to say that I agree with a lot of what the proposal addresses. The Christian People's Party believes that tenders can make sense in some contexts, and I am aware that there are some actions in Nav that are already on offer, but in the case of people who are far from working life – I stress it – I think it is more challenging to use tenders as an instrument. When you have people who are far from working life, and people who are not so far from working life, in the same group, and the measures are on offer, you have to have a well-designed tender system, and I hope you can get one now, so that one does not shy away from the flow and chooses the people who are closest to the working life, and then we kind of give up those who are a bit away. At least there can be a danger in that, and therefore the Christian People's Party fought against the regulation that was now implemented by the government, with the support of the Left. Among other things, we have in the budget agreement tried to stop that change, but I accept that it has now been adopted, and then we take up the fight in the handling of the big business message in order to ensure the best possible re-routing for people who have fallen out of work. I would also like to say that the SV's proposal for a representative now under consideration lacks an important point, and that is the device, where a person has a tender in combination with what we have, that one has a user group with different needs, and that is the big problem. As I said, there are some measures that can already work with some bids, and what is now being tried out by the government, with the support of the Left, has proved to work rather poorly in other countries. I have clearly reported to the Council of State what the Christian People's Party believes about it, and I also expect him to follow up on this issue, which he has argued for him to do. That is why I will not support this proposal either. In the case of case No. 8, which applies to young disabled people, I would like to make it clear that being disabled is something that one stays after a very long time, after examinations, and one has been through a series of measures before one can become disabled. But then it's also that for some people might get better, and it's amazing if it does, and then everyone wants to get those people back to work. We also know that approx. One third combine disability benefits with work, and hopefully they might come back a little bit. That is why I believe that proposal No. 1 by the Workers' Party and the Centre and proposal No. 2, from SV and which is about giving those who want it, a new health assessment plus the opportunity to get labour market measures, are good suggestions, a good idea, and very much reminds us of the proposal the Christian People's Party promoted in connection with the new disability reform that was dealt with in this room for some years ago. We just argued that if things are bad, especially young people, who see that health is getting better, then we should be able to give them the opportunity to get health assessment and to get labour market measures to help them get back. We are going to support proposal No. 1, but I expect, as more people before me have underlined, that this will be part of the message processing. Case No. 9 refers to the right to education, training or work within three months for young people under 25 years of age. Fortunately, there is a relatively low unemployment rate in Norway, but I am glad that the Committee and the Council of State stress that it needs to do even more to prevent young people from being out of work or education. It turns out that there are a lot of measures already in place, including: the plan of activity. I also see that the Council of State gives notice of lifelong learning and alienation. I think that's very good, and I'm very happy about it. I expect that there is a message taken in cooperation with the Minister of Knowledge and that one can see the whole race in context because there are many intersections. What is contained in proposal No. 1 here, which points to the message, and which is a good suggestion for how to get young people without work and without education, into work, I think I'm a good suggestion, so we want to support that. Proposal No. 2, from SV, we do not support, and we then have the opportunity to come back to how we can get more measures to help young people who have neither education nor jobs, back into working life when the message comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1809	In this debate, we address a number of proposals from the Workers' Party and the SV that have a very good intention: to ensure that more people are included in our working life. This is an important goal, and there's of course shared vision in this room of how we reach that goal, but I just don't think there's any reason to make an impression that we're not gathering to achieve the goal of including more. That's the cross-political agreement. The fact that people in pre-employment become unemployed, either because of health problems or lack of employment, is by no means a concern for anyone. The last time today, on the right of the NRK, we were able to say that young people in a number corresponding to a medium-sized Norwegian city, 40 000, were unemployed without even having been caught by the Nav system. We don't have a job in this country, but as politicians, we have a duty to make sure that it pays to work for the individual, that the welfare system encourages activity and work effort, not passivity, and that the same system is loud enough for those who can't work. So to the concrete proposals: First of all, to Karin Andersen's proposal for a representative. There is no doubt that there is some concern in the reintroduction industry after the announcement of changes in regulations by the government. So it's useful that this debate is raised into the Chamber. The left fully supports the proposals that the government has put forward and put into action, to merge today's clarification and follow-up actions, firstly because, in the big message already, more people working from the red-green government were told that today's practice was probably contrary to the procurement law, and that this was something that had to come back to. Now there's one coming back to it. Secondly, the Left believes that the proposed changes that are now being made can give users greater freedom of choice and increase the lack of service provision. Now, when one realizes that several actors can contribute to this important work, even if they do not have the municipal majority of shares, it is to be expected that we will see an increase in the quality of the pooling of services for the users. It is important that providers of such services are evaluated on the basis of the quality they offer, and not just the shareholders behind them. That being said, it may be challenging to design good enough supplies that adequately measure this quality. That's why I want to say, on behalf of the Left, that there's every reason to follow closely forward and make sure that the changes that are now in force actually lead to good results. Here there is a responsibility at the Council of State, and the Left has confidence and expectations that the government will follow it in a good way in the future. So to the Workers' Party's proposal: that proposal addresses a very important challenge, namely that hundreds of thousands of working-age Nordics are unfortunately out of work because of reduced working capacity. No other country spends more of its GDP on health-related social security benefits than just Norway. In particular, when it comes to the situation of disabled people, there is unfortunately great cause for concern. Developments have easily gone wrong, contrary to the objectives of the IA Agreement. This outreach is important to address, and I see to a large extent that this is a cross-political goal. Several of the proposals from the Workers' Party have been received from the Multi-Scroll message, which was withdrawn by the Right-Forward Party government. The ministry presented the new big message on this topic last Friday, and I look forward to going deeper into the issues there. The left also sees it as natural that part of the proposals made by the Workers' Party's representative are assessed in the discussion of the new Storing Message. Here, there are certainly some things worth looking at, even if the Left definitely doesn't agree with all of them. The message that was now made on Friday, in my view – as the Christian People's Party also calls – provides a good basis for a good discussion in the Stortinget. The same is true in so far as the SV's proposals for representatives are concerned. 8 and 9. There are also items that could be worth considering further when we're going to see this in a larger context, both on the basis of the message provided, and on the basis of the Nav selection's work. I would say that Special Document 8:97, which is about young people and the possibility of better access to help and action from Nav, is a proposal I sympathise with, and it is natural to look at in the further work of including more people in the labour market. I would also like to say in the end that when one heard the previous debate, about the budget, etc., it was quick to get the impression – at least when one listened to some representatives – that is a lunatic, one outside the labour market, then there is in a way no hope, then one is. I'm glad that, through many of the proposals we're discussing here, it's clear that there are a lot of people who have a working capacity, who can use the job and who can do it and be positive contributors both to society and to their health by having a good economic tool and incentive for that to happen. I think that's a view of the reality that we should gather about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1826	Who should the welfare state hold? What kind of help should help you get? And how are we going to be able to make a line of work that people can balance without falling outside? There are some of the more questions raised in the proposals that are now under discussion. Unfortunately, I think that we see a greater distinction in the committee's handling of matters than what has really come to mind in the pulpit here. Because it should be possible to get together on good proposals that you believe are important policies, whether you think they are right, regardless of when they are promoted, or who is doing so. Just one comment on the previous debate: the government statement says that the holes in the safety net should be sealed. I can definitely see that the Christian People's Party sits with needle and thread and sews febrile in an attempt to close something, but the problem is that at the other end you have the Right and the Advance Party with each of its scissors, which ensures that the safety net gets bigger holes. That is what I believe to be able to see both in the budgetary negotiations that have been between the government and the cooperation parties, and in the debate that we had recently. When SV criticises the government's policy, it's not because we settle down on the situation as it is now. That's because we want to go on, that's because we want something better. These are also examples of our proposals. We know that we can do better, both as a society and as employees in the welfare state. At that time, Nav employees must have good opportunities to help people in a difficult life situation. It requires a close hub, a hub that is present where people live, with open doors and with confidence in the community and knowledge of the local business community. It requires a hub where you can use professional judgement and with less square, rigid systems, where you get the opportunity to see the individual. And it requires a hub where resources and instruments match the challenges that actually exist. We have to make sure that those who need help get the help they need, and that they get it right. That is why SV proposes a strengthened youth guarantee. We want a real guarantee that young people under the age of 25 will be given the opportunity to work, to qualify and to engage in meaningful activity, in order to be able to get back into a working life and take part in it. Today it became known, as has also been mentioned, that 40,000 young people are completely out of work, from Nav, from some kind of follow-up. I heard an interview with one of these young people on the radio instead, and he said he was afraid that it took so long, and that anyway, it was little help to pick up if he made contact with Nav. That's why it kind of didn't make him do it. Unfortunately, there is a description of an experience that too many people have. We'll do something about that. Then I find it interesting to hear the Progress Party, which says that those who need help are the ones who are closest to the working life – they are the ones who need to be given priority – when we know that it is not at all young people, and at least not the 40,000 who were talking about on the radio and in the news picture today. Youth is in a special position. Youth is in a vulnerable position in the workplace. When unemployment increases, young people are particularly vulnerable. Young people often have little work experience and are very often in need of qualification. You're not a favorite worker when you're young. At the same time, youth is one of the most important resources we have in our society. That's our future. It is waste of the worst kind to let young people go without work or without meaningful activity — it is wasted both with the lives and days of the individual and not least with the resources of society. Therefore, SV will have a Youth Guarantee with content, a Youth Guarantee that works and will trigger the necessary funds for the measures needed. In addition to the Youth Guarantee, SV will be entitled to follow-up in the same way as those who are currently receiving redundancy benefits. And what's this really about? Well, it's about the life situation being able to change, and you know your own health best in consultation with your own doctor. You can do a lot better if you get help and meet the needs you have. This is about creating a workline that works by lowering the thresholds that many people experience and making the path to work as short as possible. But it is also about the quality of life of the individual and the ability to get help and follow-up in what can be a demanding situation in life. So a comment related to the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party: it can be read as if it should be opened up for a review of disability benefits every two years. That's why I was skeptical about it. If there is something that the group does not need, there is uncertainty about the performance and the situation. SV is on a principle basis contrary to the fact that the Community funds are to be used for the profit of private companies – it is quite right in the right. Nor do we believe that market mechanisms respond to our main challenges, or that it is the most effective way to deliver good offers. On the other hand, we believe in safe conditions, in stability, in order to ensure the quality of action needed, and in order to ensure that there are measures to be adapted to the individual, not to be taken by man. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is sad that there is no majority in favour of the proposal for a strategy for people with disabilities, although it is positive that many have announced that they are illusory of the proposal, along with the other proposals that have been made, and look forward to a debate on it. Sometimes the red-greens are criticized for not being constructive enough. I would like to encourage our friends in the committee from other parties to look at the proposals and not just who is putting them on. With this I address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1857	The representative Kirsti Bergstø has made up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1860	Many representative proposals have been put forward here, and it is good to be able to listen to and follow up on the debate. I do not doubt that there is a concerted commitment to helping more people into the labour market. It is not necessarily just the commitment that is crucial, but also the proposals that are being made and the opportunities that are given to help more people back. I think we have a slightly different view of that. Let me start by saying why this government chose to draw the proposal and the big message More in work that came from the previous government. There were several reasons for that. Firstly, I believe that the message was not ambitious enough to help people get back to work. I note that the proposal for a representative we are discussing today is based on this communication. Several of the proposals in that Communication required both further investigation and concreteisation. No mention has been made of this in the proposals for representatives. That is why I am pleased that the government now on Friday put forward a proposal with a message part with clearer arrangements on how to ensure that more people are helped back to work. I am pleased that we have a new follow-up and organisation agreement, which means that the companies and the individual get a contact person in Nav, and that it should be followed up continuously. I think that's good. One of the major challenges has been that you haven't been able to follow up well enough. The fact that we are now making arrangements for follow-up shows that this government is taking the challenge seriously. In addition, it is important to be able to put in place a system with a new inclusion grant and a new follow-up and organisation grant. The old organisation grant was, as you know, to transfer an amount of operating aid to an employer who received a person. There was no guarantee that it was a good arrangement. By the fact that the funds now have to be used for planning, more people will have the opportunity to get an organized job, as the Namsen auto in Grong in Nord-Trøndelag did for Steffen Johansen, 24 years old and lamb from the chest and down. You get a contact in Nav, where you follow up and find out what arrangements are being made. Then you have to use the means to get the necessary lift in place, so that he can control and manage the parts warehouse, provide the mechanics in a good and proper way and work in the workplace. That, I believe, is more targeted management of the funds, which means that you can actually get better results. Changing the payroll scheme and saying that you have a permanent payroll scheme for those who are at risk of becoming disembarkated, and that those people can get that wage subsidy until they become retired, will make it possible and easier for businesses to accept a person and allow him to join in a work situation. Ketil was one of them that I also met on Wednesday. He is well up for the fifties, had had a big break in life and had the challenges of getting back to work. He was, as it was said from Nav, a perfectly clear and obvious person to be permanently dissatisfied. With the new wage subsidy scheme, both Nav and the company say that Ketil can actually be able to participate in the labour market until retirement. It is a targeted instrument that we believe will work better. That is why we have chosen to present our own policies in this area. I think it is good that we now also point out and make several proposals relating to the redundancy payments. As you know, several evaluations are being carried out in this area. They will be presented in the near future. We are going to review the evaluations, and we are also going to put forward policies in this area – which are also announced in the communication that was submitted on Friday. Then we will come back and look at both the entry requirements, the grading, the length of the social benefits and the activity requirements. There are things that will be considered. In order to comment on the SV’s proposals related to the disability benefits, the same scope for job-oriented follow-up as those on redundancy benefits is currently available in today’s legislation. Then it's important that we enable Nav to follow up people in a good way – not with a new code, but using the opportunities that actually exist. For people under 30 years of age who are on redundancy pay, I think it might be more appropriate to look for a closer follow-up and a longer run for some, for example. for those with mental disorders, in order to avoid dissatisfaction — i.e. to put in earlier and more targeted efforts to prevent disability, rather than first becoming dissatisfaction and then to start the follow-up. I have more faith in past and right efforts than what appears in the draft representative. At the same time, the possibilities are already in today's legislation. I would like to say a little about tenders and labour market policy. It is not like this government is offering everything. First, this shows distrust of Nav and mistrust of Nav who orders. Nav is the one who orders the places and measures to help each person to get back to work. I trust that this will be followed up in a good way. Tenders are nothing new. We have been offering clarification and follow-up measures. But we have a system that is such that in a few places everyone can be allowed to join and submit tenders, while the majority of follow-up and clarification measures are given only through an authorisation system. When I see good social entrepreneurs, such as KREM, the mob project, etc., succeed in developing good methods to get more people back to work for better clarification and good follow-up, I think it is strange – if the goal is to help more people return to work – that you should not use the skills in a good way, use that learning and also allow them to join and contribute and qualify people back to work on equal terms with everyone else. In fact, the labour market enterprises that have a high level of competence and do a good job also win most of the tenders in this area. That means that there won't be a shift of power, and that one will erase the other. We are talking about big commercial players. I don't know one big commercial actor outside the country's borders who's knocking on the door to come in and take over our labour market policy. Can anyone tell me what the big commercial actor's name is, and where it is? I'd like to know, so that we can at least make good Nav's order policy when we're going to order the services that work best for the people who're going back to work. That's why I think it's important to focus on this. But I also think it is important to take on board the challenges we are actually facing with concrete instruments that we are facing, and not to make undetectable stories. Just to mention it: I think the new job training measure that comes from this government will also prevent what is part of the problem today, that many are sent to work practices to be there for three to six months and then to be sent back to Nav, and then you are sent to a new company without any follow-up to be sent back to Nav. I believe that this is not a good way to qualify. Instead, we have a new job training measure in ordinary activities that also obliges Nav to join the employer, follow up on the individual – and that can also be combined with salary subsidies if you then choose to bet on hiring the person permanently. Or funds can be mobilised to facilitate – if necessary – the person’s stay at work. It is a more focused policy. We have already started the debate on a communication that was submitted on Friday, but it will necessarily be this way when many of the representative proposals address policy solutions and proposals for solutions contained in the communication. But I am happy to come back to Stortinget and discuss that message. I am convinced that there too we can find a good majority in this room and get more eaten up in the use of tools that will help more people outside, into the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1892	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1895	Previous and closer follow-up, especially by young people meeting with Nav, is important. When we discuss the challenges of the proposals we are now debating, we may not need to reinvent the powder, but we can look at the arrangements that already exist and ensure that they are met. The Stoltenberg government introduced in the 2013 budget an enhanced youth guarantee called the Youth Promise. It was based on 35 million. Dr to youth coordinators in the Nav system, so that all young people meeting with Nav in one month with one case handler would have their own activity plan containing the actions needed by each youth – a plan for the way out to work and activity. I was eager to see how it was followed up and asked the Council of State a question about the achievement of the guarantee one year ago. Then the council said that it had just begun to work, and that he would achieve a better goal with the new guarantee than the previous one had. What has the Council of State done to ensure that the youth promise is fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1902	We're doing several things. First, we make Nav able to be more good at following up those who need help, with closer follow-up towards work, towards individual youth, and we spend less time on forms and more time on follow-up. That's good. But we still don't succeed well enough, yet there are still too many who don't get the pleasure of having a transition to work. I think it's a bit of a shame in many ways, and it's a concern that we can't get more people over. If you compare the 2013 figures with the 2006 figures, it's as many as we can't get into work after the x number of years with the Nav reform, as it was before we started the Nav reform. It's suspicious. This is also why we have now set up an expert committee to carry out an overall review to also look at how Nav can be better equipped to follow up on the individual youth, so that the transition to work is much better than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1909	I am pleased that the Council of State says that he is working for the individual to have a contact person in Nav locally. I think it's going to be a very strong force that you have a person to deal with – a person who knows your situation, and that this will give you mutual trust over time. Furthermore, I noticed that the Council of State said that he would look at the possibility of a permanent salary subsidy for those who are at risk of being disabled until 67 years – also an interesting proposal. We know that there are many who are not sick enough to get ill, while they are so sick and tired that they will not be able to work every day. Therefore, few employers are willing to take the burden of having people with such a relationship with the labour market. I could ask, what extent does the Council of State see that such a system will have? Here we are talking about a lot of people and big money that needs to be moved, to get to what is the Council of State's intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1916	I thank you for the question. It's a big and important question, and I'm not going to start trying to figure it out. But at least what I can say is that today we're using a total of over 1 billion. kr for wage subsidy schemes. It's a little bit above 5,000 people who get to participate in them. It tells me that we're getting too little out of the money we're already using today. I want a more ambitious use of wage subsidies – especially a sustainable wage subsidy – and hope that we can get more out of that wage subsidy than we have from previous salary subsidies. Without numerating how many it can now help, I hope that as many as possible are at risk of getting into permanent disability, but that has a working capacity, and that can contribute, is given the opportunity to take a wage subsidy and be at a job instead of being stamped out permanently. So I would encourage all employers to use these opportunities and also hire these people and to be more good at using this workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1923	The Council of State also referred to youth. Many young people may have problems with alcohol and mental health problems, are at the vulnerable age of 20–25 years, and have neither employment nor education. SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre promote proposals for so-called apprentices in this section, where employers receive financial support to recruit these young people as apprentices. I should have liked to have the Council of State to take a closer look at this proposal, and why the Council of State is not in favour of it being able to take part in the assessment of the measures taken in the next message.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1928	Message has already been submitted. It was submitted now on Friday, and it is a little difficult to include proposals in a notice that has already been sent to the Council of State and handed over the Stortinget. The Apprenticeship Scheme is also subject to another State Council, which should respond to its use. What I'm concerned about is making sure that we get more targeted follow-up through Nav, better tools to follow-up the individual, and the individual youth. That's why we're also going to start looking at things like this. the system of redundancy payments. Maybe it should be that precisely the group of representatives Lundtigen points out, people with mental disorders, people with a drug background, maybe with chronic diseases maybe also combined with psychiatry, can get a longer and closer follow-up run. I think the individual agreements we have had so far have not worked well enough, precisely because we have not managed to get to the transition to work that we wanted. Then I think we need to go through the scheme again, both the entry conditions, the length of support and the follow-up regime around it, in order to ensure better follow-up for the individual and better transition to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1933	The Council of State rejects the right to follow-up because of the possibility of follow-up. Then I think it's important to remember that even today you have the opportunity to put work or activity as a condition for social assistance. But my interest has fallen on a spin-off in connection with this with the outsourcing of measures: the current representative Eriksson strongly argued against such a type of commercialisation and outsourcing on the grounds that he feared a narrower offer. What is the Council of State Eriksson thinks has changed since then?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1940	First of all, I argued at the time – as I still do – that you did not want a bid on the screened working environment. There is no tender for this either. At the same time, I have seen the effect that there are several new actors, that there are many who are very successful. My political goal, the most important for me, is not who is allowed to qualify the people; the most important thing is that people become qualified, that there is a greater transition to work. When I see – over the years – that there are a lot of good forces out there, yes, I will apply the good forces, just to make sure that we get more transition to work. I'm sure that being quoted as something you thought x was the number of years ago is interesting for an opposition. I find it most interesting as Minister of Labour to follow developments every day, learn from what works, and use what works. If I have made mistakes in the past, yes, I have made mistakes in the past, but at least I use what works best, and I will do so in the future. I don't want to be as Catholic as the Pope.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1948	I record that the Council of State agreed with the intention of the new, reinforced youth guarantee that the Stoltenberg government presented, but I do not have an answer to my question. Because, as we know, it amounted to 35 million. Dr to be used for youth coordinators around the Nav offices, just to reinforce the efforts directed at the youth group, follow them up more closely and faster with one case handler, so that they would not wave between several. But, as we know, all of this – if it has to work – depends on being on Nav in the management dialogue. Therefore, I wonder: What has the Council of State done to ensure that the intention of the youth promise is followed up, that young people are given priority, and that it is also given priority to have one case handler, so that they do not get confused around the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1953	First of all, from next year we're going to change, for example. with a Nav supervisor in secondary schools to follow-up youth and prevent drop-outs. There is one measure I have good faith in. I believe, as I said, in previous efforts, to make sure that we can go into schools with good career guidance and good follow-up, both to prevent drop-out and to ensure that young people get on the right path educationally. I think that's good, it's important, and it's a proper measure to ensure good, proper follow-up for those kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1958	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1961	Work on everyone and the working line has always been at the heart of the Labour Party's policy. A prerequisite for a real working line is to pursue an active labour market policy aimed at groups which traditionally have more difficulty in entering the labour market. The Youth Guarantee introduced during the government of Gro Harlem Brundtland in the 1990s is a very good example of how active labour market policies can look and how they can work. A youth guarantee scheme was introduced precisely because youth unemployment was seen to be higher than that of other groups. A guarantee was put in place that went on measures, and it worked – it was seen that the unemployment rate went down. So took – unfortunately, I have to say – the right-wing dominant Bondevik government over and removed the guarantee schemes. Thus, active labour market policies aimed at young people were no longer pursued. And what happened? Well, the time off went up. When the red-greens took over in 2005, one of the first things we did was to reintroduce the youth guarantees, precisely because we saw that youth unemployment was higher than that of adults. One of our priorities was just to make the inclusive workline real and get more into work and activity – we reintroduced the guarantees, they began to work. So we evaluated them after a few years in government, in the last period, and we heard and found that they had too bad goal achievement. When that report arrived, the right-wing figure, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, went into the VG and said, look here, the goal achievement is too low, we want to remove the guarantees. The working party had a different way. We said in the same newspaper the same day: we see that the goal achievement is too bad, we want to strengthen the guarantees. This is the traditional dividing line between the Workers' Party and the right hand side of Norwegian policy. We have an active labour market policy. When we see that it doesn't work, we strengthen it. The right-hand side has a more passive line. They went in to remove the arrangements because they weren't good enough. So we went to Nav and asked, what do you need to make these guarantees real? Then Nav says, well, we need money for follow-up, we need to free personnel. We set up a new system that we called the Youth promise, which was really just two simple things: money for youth coordinators at the largest Nav offices, so that all young people coming to Nav, in one month with one case handler, should have an activity plan that should be the youth – what to say – recipe and recipe on the way out to work and activity, precisely because we know that it is vital that especially young people are turned into the door early, being helped early. As I said in the change of lines with the Council of State, we depend on the government and the Council of State in their governance dialogue with Nav to ensure that this guarantee, this youth promise, is realised. We have a expectation that the Council of State will do just that, ensure that the youth coordinators are in place, remain, and that Nav in the governance dialogue will be given clear instructions that this is a priority. If we do so, we believe that the intentions of the draft representatives that we are discussing here today will be respected. Then each youth is met in the door and looked at as the individuals they are, with the needs they have, and met out of it in a quick, efficient and easy way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e1978	It's a goal for the government to get more people to work. Work provides opportunities to meet other people, create social networks, but also opportunities for personal income that improves the quality of life and the ability to manage themselves. In the case of people with disabilities, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of facilitating active participation in the labour market. Disability is not the same as disability. Report. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 2006, emphasises Article 45 for 2012–2013, entitled Freedom and Equivalence – On People with Deterioration. The main objective of the Convention is to ensure equal opportunities for people with disabilities for the realisation of their human rights, as well as the dismantling of obstacles which make this difficult. The Convention shall contribute to the fight against discrimination on grounds of disability. The notification and the Convention are clear that this will also apply in the labour market. It is therefore important to be able to adapt the working day of each person to make maximum use of their creative resources. When the government set up an expert group to review the management of labour and welfare, this was in order to assess possible changes that could improve the organisation’s ability to achieve the main objectives of labour and welfare policy. An important part of the expert group’s work is to identify and propose measures to ensure good user involvement and good user experience for the Nav Office. It is also important that employers are given the opportunity to have a permanent contact person in Nav who can provide guidance to employers in the support schemes provided by Nav and tailor them to workers who want to get out of work. In the past, we have had labour immigration to Norway when they traveled from Turkey, Pakistan and Europe to Norway and were employed in industrial enterprises. This was a time when, through their work, they were paid and able to establish themselves with their family in Norway. The challenges today are greater, and we have international obligations to accept people coming from war-torn areas, some also traumatized. These challenges are faced by large and demanding tasks in facilitating participation in the labour market. Increased cultural competence, language and labour market competence will be central. Participation in the labour market offers increased opportunities for better integration, better opportunities to establish social networks, but also language skills. It is difficult to see that integration can be successful without becoming a part of the labour market or choosing to take part in education. For many, temporary additions may be a way into the labour market, in order to become a permanent employee. For most, work is the goal, but for some, there may be problems that make them unable to participate without bringing about changes in the family situation. These may be psychiatry-related problems, but also drug problems or traditional family challenges. Family protection in the region east produced an exciting report in 2014 entitled Good Relations – our mission. Growth conditions and family structures in Norway are changing. Political and social trends contribute to changing and evolving attitudes to parental roles. What are today’s parents’ needs for information, competence and knowledge about parenting? Could it be that many of the challenges for young people aged 18 to 24 who are either leaving school or at work are of a family nature compared to new challenges in their parental role? If that is the case, registering as a jobseeker at Nav alone will not be the solution. The obligation of activity instead of receiving passive benefits can produce good results for some of these young people. They will have better follow-up, a structured everyday life, help in job search and a social encounter. Nav is facing major challenges. It's become a big organization that might be too big. It's going to be interesting to see what the expert committee will conclude with. Independently, closer cooperation with voluntary teams and associations should be considered. They're sitting on a unique competence. Nav services should be moved closer where the user is, even if they are in schools or in the community. Maybe you should work more closely with community committees. The same applies to migrant organisations. These organisations have unique competence and knowledge of cultural codes. Could this be an opportunity to work more specifically to get immigrants into the labour market? Work and family are two sides of the same matter. Human beings must be the target of public welfare systems, but it requires the system to see the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2008	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2011	It is basically gratifying that we have now received not one, not two and not three, but four proposals dealing with Nav and the contents of Nav, and how to initially improve Nav. We know, as we were in a debate earlier today, that there was a standstill for more or less eight years and a defense of the existing. At least then it is gratifying that we are now getting the debate to the point that there are several areas within Nav that are not working and that we should improve. But at the same time, you can get far with good intentions, but there's still a lot more to be done. For more of a policy that has not worked, rarely is a good idea. I believe that in several of these proposals we are dealing with here today, there is talk of continuing and strengthening measures that have been tried and not working either. Let me take one, which is about stopping commercialisation, or stopping the diversity of labour-oriented measures. Rather, we in the Progress Party believe that we need more diversity in labour-oriented action. We need more wise heads and more hands to help people get out of work. If there's someone who initially makes some money on it, I don't care, because the most important thing is to help people out in work. You also talk about the commercial being almost dangerous. I have to admit that there was an interesting debate we had in this room a month ago, when we had visits of, among other things. Erlandens Conditori. They clearly showed that private enterprises can be a good supplement, and can help to get people out in sustainable work, with the help and support of the public. Then there has been talk about the proposal on youth guarantee. All agree that youth is an important resource, in line with the fact that older people are an important resource. But what I think young people need is not beautiful, politically adopted goals, ambitions, promises and more election promises. What young people need in order to get to work are, in fact, places of study and education that ensure that they are well educated. Not least, we need jobs that are also adapted to the needs of young people. That's exactly the debate we've been to earlier today as well, and that's going to continue next year, that we need a government that's going to make it further, making it easier for more people to get into the world of work. I'm glad the government's in full swing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2022	There are few things that are more beautiful than youth's energy, moving towards and optimism. Similarly, few things are more daunting than when the young lose hope and fall away. The neglect we have seen in the emerging generation of Europe in the context of the crisis has and will have far-reaching consequences in the coming period. Compared to Europe, we have relatively low youth unemployment, but it is still too high, which the NRC could report today. The future must be shaped politically, and then jobs for the young are crucial. It is an important principle to have a safety net in the workplace, such as unemployment benefits, sick pay schemes, leave, etc. Young people with little or no job experience do not have the same rights, and only a guarantee will trigger the means to ensure that young people get the investment they deserve in the future. For those young people who do not get on with work, it often represents a personal disaster, but it is also a social problem, because it is true, that the cost is fast ahead of the contribution side. I find it very strange that established adults get sponsored housing they don't even live in, while students live on crumbs and use their student loan to pay the same established adults. It is strange that the government is eager to give large gifts of money to the wealthiest in the country by removing the wealth tax. Although they do justify employment, the majority of economists in Norway disagree with this effect. Only one guarantee will give the bet that the youth deserves. I am convinced that there will be more people working, but unfortunately young people are not falling away, giving priority in the same way as privileged adults of this government. It is early to learn that policy is about priorities. A few years later, too many youths experience that they are not a priority. Prioritying privileged adults rather than falling away from young people is a poor priority. Adopting a youth guarantee will be a right priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2035	I think I'm going to keep going where the previous speaker was, because that's what this is all about. Everyone knows that if youth goes off without doing anything, doesn't go to school, doesn't have work, it could get quite negative consequences quite quickly. And we all know that many people may need something quite different than going to school. Some people need work training, some need to get to work, some need health care, and some need a lot of different measures. But today it is such that very many must wait long before they get it. They come to Nav, or they get this out of school, and then they get nothing to do at all. The government's answer to this is non-content coercive work without a penny on the table. The SV proposes to give these young people the right to action, education or school space quickly, so that they do not leave without doing anything. Because I think it's a completely wrong signal to give. I fully agree with those who say that you should turn the door and get something sensible to do very quickly. It has to be about a lot of different ways to approach this, based on individual needs and what the individual needs. For several years, waiting time for action has been very difficult, so SV fully agrees that there is a need for reinforcement in this area. That is why we have promoted this proposal, because we know it is so important. So to the second proposal, which is that we do not want the commercialisation of the protected measures. It's because all the experience shows that there won't be any more diversity, it'll be more simple. It will be the big players who are going to win these tenders. Now I hear that you push the Fontenehuset, the Garbage Project and things like that in front of you. It is fully possible to amend the legislation so that quality contracts can be concluded with these actors. I also follow Twitter a bit, both when I am in Stortinget and otherwise, and I can say that in the mob project they very much agree with SV that we now need such a youth guarantee. Because it is precisely such a youth guarantee that triggers the measures that the mob project can take. There are many more young people who could have needed the mob project than those who get help from there today. Many more could have needed help from the Fontenehuset or from other good partners, which are non-profit organisations and user organisations most of them. But the problem is that it is not a priority to put money on the table of these measures in the State budget. It's just like it was said here, that the money is given priority to the most prosperous, who have both jobs and wealth and high wages and everything on the dry, while these kids had needed us to prioritize them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2048	In a number of cases, today's government has shown a capacity and a willingness to push through what I would call ideological proposals, without taking into account the input from professional circles or those that are happening. The field of labour and social affairs has been particularly exposed to this method of work. Here, the normal state seems to be the absence of dialogue with the social partners. This is a form of work that bothers me, because it affects one of the main pillars of how we have chosen to develop the community until now, but also because I feel that the government's lack of desire for input from the social partners, professional etats, research and civil society leads to poor solutions in important areas. Today, too, we are going to deal with issues that have their origins in the government's way of working, where dialogue is clearly subordinated as a method. Despite considerable professionalresistance, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Eriksson has gone in to amend the action regulation, so that a number of measures in the field of reintroduction are available. In the same amendment, he combines the provision of action to groups with different needs, and that is the background to the representative proposal Document 8:76 S for 2013–2014 from SV, to stop increasing the commercialisation of labour law measures. Near 90 pst. by the Hearing Officers, including the Right-Handed Bergen Municipality, the KS, the NHO, the management companies and other professional bodies, are critical or very critical of Eriksson’s proposal. The Labour Party is therefore associated with a large number of stakeholders before the field of criticism of the proposal. We fear that the provision of services will affect the weakest users and those who are far from the ordinary working life. The Labour Party has not come forward to discuss changes within the labour law measures. What we're responding to today is that the government, without any major processing, accepted these changes just before they put forward a big message on the same topic. It's a form of work that I don't think creates trust. The Labour Party is just as surprised as many others to it afterwards so much mention the quote to the then-bigting representative Robert Eriksson at the rendition fair. I won't speculate in why Eriksson said what he said – whether he sailed under a false flag or whether he's changed his mind after a while. It is not good to know, but in any case, the Labour Party is disappointed that the Council of State has turned so politically to the degrees that he is now in favour of policies against which he has previously warned. In this case, the government has not listened to all the actors who think it will affect the weakest users and who do not see the benefit of the change. The working party therefore supports the proposal for a representative and asks the government to stop the commercialisation of actions within the clearance and follow-up area of Nav, in order to ensure competence, to provide safer conditions and stability and to optimise the quality development of the actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2065	It was impossible to stay calm when the representative Wiborg went up and released the information and the broadness of a youth guarantee that does not work and that we do not need. It's interesting to look out on the continent, out in Europe, where in some countries there are two young people who are unemployed, and where we talk about the lost generations. There you look at the Nordic countries and Norway, and you try and strive to obtain a youth guarantee. Social democrats and moderate right-wing members have joined forces in the EU Parliament to secure the future for young people, to secure the working line and to ensure what the comrade and the representative after me will talk about, namely the sustainability of welfare countries. The workline is very basic, but there must also be something to offer, and a youth guarantee should ensure it: ensure that you have work or that you receive training. This is one of the most fundamental things, for we agree, all of us sitting in this room: they are so devastating, the holes in the CV, the stays from work and the stays from school. But this is a whole that has to be connected. This means that one must also be willing to give priority to apprenticeships when it comes to public tenders. It is then necessary to dry down the requirement of the tendering procedures – not only that the price should be available, because it is actually more expensive to work with vocational training than to work with hiring out labour. You have to dry up to make demands when you're building the new government quarter, and when we're going to invest in our hospitals. We have to clean up the jobs where we have the big tenders, and where we are going to build the community, so that we get priority vocational training and youth, so that we do not lose generations. It's going backwards into the future. It must be possible to raise your eyes and look at those who have tried the exact same thing, without a youth guarantee when they enter downtime, see how it has gone. They don't recommend it, and they look at Norway. Let's protect the Youth Guarantee, let's protect the working line and get young people into work or education.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2075	I thought I'd start by saying something about duty of activity. I think it's amazing that the representative of the Socialist Left Party says it's important that young people have something to do, and you're against duty of activity. It is not a matter of concern, and I think it is quite alarming that parties may object to measures that work well in several municipalities not being applicable to young people in all municipalities. Then I have to tell the representative Holen Bjørdal that one should be a little careful to say that some have sailed under a false flag, when we during the debate that has been, for example. on the child supplement, has seen what the Workers' Party stood for, and what they now claim to have stood for. Otherwise it was exciting to hear the posts of the representative of the Trettebergstien. There we got a five-minute tribute from an action that has proved to be ineffective for many years, namely the Youth Guarantee. First of all, we share our view of what's challenging. We have too many people of working age who are totally or partially out of work. Unemployment among young people is significantly higher than elsewhere in the population, and it is unsustainable, neither when we consider the sustainability of the welfare state nor when we take into account the need for labour. This is where the unity stops. We're busy lowering the threshold into the working life. Instead of embracing ourselves with guarantees to different groups, we believe that the approach must be – regardless of which group you belong to – that there is an opportunity to enter into ordinary work. Target achievement is not measured by how much money we allocate, but by how many actually come to work. It is from this perspective that the tribute of the Workers' Party to the Youth Guarantee is so special. Neither in good times nor in difficult times has the Youth Guarantee proved to be a success. It seems that there has been so much achievement in this case from the Workers' Party that they are dazzled, and the solution to the problem is to do more of what does not work. We're concerned about solving the big problems we have today, so we're arming Norway for the future. Then no more of what doesn't work is a solution for this government. We have to make sure that more people get to work on a regular basis, because we know that this is how real competence is strengthened, for example. by developing and extending the system of wage subsidies. The representative Trettebergstien mentioned differences between the red-green and the civil. Here is a difference: for several years, the Workers' Party has allocated money to something that doesn't work. We're lowering the threshold of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2093	I also took the floor because I responded to the comments of the representative, Karin Andersen. She said the government doesn't care about young people who go free. She also spoke warmly about the "Snow in the Door" project. We're just concerned that we're going to meet the youth in the door on Nav, and that they can turn there and get an activity offer instead of just receiving money. Torbjørn Røe Isaacsen pointed out what they did in Åmli municipality in the previous period, when they were visiting there, and where they had a very successful project. There were quite a number of young people who were not at work or at school, and an activity obligation was imposed for them to receive money. It had very good results. I must also say that I react very negatively to this negative attitude towards private people, that it is just big commercial players who just have to make a lot of money. Nav is also running a tendering procedure today. I ask the representative to tell us which major players are collecting a lot of profit from the work clearance and follow-up we have in Norway today. I don't know anyone. And to the representative Holen Bjørdal of the Workers' Party: Does the Workers' Party not mean that we should follow the rules we have for acquisitions in Norway? A legal review has shown that we are not doing this with regard to a good part of the services that Nav buys today, because it is not competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2102	I have to wonder if the representative Heggelund has at all been present in the committee and is involved in the consideration of the underlying issues, when he says that SV does not want action for young people. That's exactly what SV is proposing! SV is almost the only party that proposes that these young people have the right to action, work, qualification or school space. What we're opposed to is you're going to come to Nav and get some unsubstantiated coercive work just to be disciplined, because we know that's going to work the other way around. That's not good. So that's the exact opposite of what the representative from the right now says. It is SV who proposes that these young people be entitled to action. Today they go and wait. There are many municipalities that have conditions for social assistance today. That's what SV has been for. Those who do that in a sense and in a sense, succeed. Those who do this as a coercion, without having good content in the measures, fail. And the government has put zero dollars on the table in the municipal economy so that the municipalities can make such good plans. For example, work management is needed. For example, there is a need for someone who can drive that qualification, follow-up on health or the social follow-up that many of these young people need. But in the Right and Advance Party's head, this is obviously free, there's probably someone who's going to do these jobs free of charge for them, and these kids are going to get an offer in which there's no quality. SV prioritises this so high that we choose to say that these young people should have a right. Then you can give them an offer on the first day they come and you get to know what they need, and then they're doing a positive activity that might lead to you wanting to continue your education, or you figure out what profession you want, and you can try it out. The problem today is that these young people are not being followed up. It could be fun to ask how the Right-steered Oslo, for example, has done this. Have they had follow-up with good conditions for those receiving social assistance? They haven't had it at all. Some have got it, but not all, because it costs money. If we really want this – SV will, because we know that it is important that young people get activity, that is why we have promoted this proposal – it is completely meaningless that those who now believe that all young people should have an offer say no that there should be money for these offers, that this should be some kind of free work, which I expect some volunteers might do. I do not know what the content of this is at all, but I can say that this type of forced labour has been tried in Norway before. It didn't work out very well. No one is going to be better off being humiliated. There are a lot more people who are going to do better if they get a real chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2117	I'm not going to help extend the debate, but there are some people here who have resorted to a debate technique that is about standing on this pulpit and throwing out statements without coating. I see that the representative in question understands who I mean. Stefan Heggelund keeps coming back to the fact that the Workers' Party has changed its position regarding children's supplements. We haven't. I just want to remind you of the setting for the reform, which was adopted in December 2011. It says black on white: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party and the Right, agree to the continuation of today’s need-tested child allowance.’; The proposal of the Progress Party was: ‘The size calls on the government to promote the necessary legislative changes so that total disability benefits, including child allowances, can reach a maximum of 80 pst. of previous income.’» We did not vote for that. The proposal from the Right was: ‘The government asks the government to propose a new system of child allowances for both redundancy and disability benefits, with a view to a system that is more effective in ensuring that work is paid.’ We did not vote for that either. The right hand party and the Progress Party stood alone on their position in that case in the previous period – as they do in this period. Then an attempt is made to make a point of what has been discussed. Is it not the case in the Right Grandningsgruppe that one discusses different solutions, then one concludes with what one seems to be best, and when one has concluded, is that what is Right Policy? This is at least in the Workers' Party, and I have just now referred to and quoted what is the Labour Party's policy in relation to children's supplements, and have been it all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2143	I am absolutely sure that the Workers' Party has not changed its mind about the children's supplement. I actually think they're completely in agreement, but they just dare not say what they mean. It is convenient in the situation that has arisen, where it is revealed by SV what the Workers' Party actually means. With regard to Karin Andersen and the obligation of activity for young social welfare recipients, it's one of the best proposals we're going to adopt tonight. It's one of the most social proposals, and it therefore contributes to the possibility for young people who are not meeting with demands today, or who are not getting opportunities from anyone. Last week I was with the Church's Bymition, at the Pedalen Cycle Shop in Haugesund, and met a youth who had now got a practical position of XXL after the municipality had referred him to the Church's Bymition. His alternative had been to live in the basement of his mother and father for three years and play computer games. He said, "I wish someone had previously taken hold of me, said I couldn't go on like this anymore, and got me over to an action." It has not been properly produced that, as it becomes an activity obligation, municipalities must have more than one job to solve this problem. I've met several Nav leaders around the country who say, "Let them come, these are the people we're using with today's crew." If we turn around a little bit – they go on to say in the Nav offices – and think that these people can do social work with our case handlers as a guide, use society and the municipality less resources in total. The SVs – and maybe the red-green – model is that if we are to add something, we need to add new jobs. Our model is probably considerably simpler. We want to see if it's possible to run this in a different way than with new positions, just because these are the people you spend a lot of resources on -- calling them and asking where they were, in a lot of meetings, in a lot of calls, in a lot of actions. They go on a whole bunch of different measures that don't fit them. Then it's much better, together with the municipality, to find places of practice. They may be included as numbers. 2 on dinner delivery, they can be included as no. 2 in home care if you're insecure there, they can be with a janitor, they can be in kindergarten, they can be involved in a number of things to get work practices. Much of this will already be organised in some of the workplaces. Instead, the SV model gives as a spinal cord reflex to have several positions, but the whole point is that they are already there. It is time to deliver results to get them back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2160	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2163	Arve Kambe describes some of the measures that work under today's model. It works well where they have resources for it and get it to, but it doesn't work without follow-up. It is not the case that those in social assistance receive action by action. It turns out it's not like that. Most of them get nothing. They don't get any qualification that can make them get a job afterwards. I think the representative, Mr. Kambe, should also talk to those who work in the Nav offices, because they're telling a completely different story from what the representative, Mr. Kambe, was doing right now, that they have too much to do there. They have too many to follow up on. This means that you have to have someone who can do good monitoring and follow-up, and that some of those who now need a good deal of action to do, also need that there is some money in the pot that allows you to start the good actions that there is no money for today in a lot of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2170	Just very briefly: when it is said that you have applied a debate technique that is to make claims without coatings, you almost have to answer that. The representative Lise Christoffersen did not refer – as far as I could hear – to the whole comment that was in the process of misreform, namely that the red-green parties were supposed to come back to the children's supplement. So the discussion was not to be considered finished. When you have also seen the statements of the representative Karin Andersen on the discussions that were in the previous period about the child supplement, it is very difficult to believe that the Workers' Party has always meant the same thing about the child supplement as they are doing now. Now the Workers' Party is going to present this debate as if it were black-and-white, as if they've always meant the same thing. It's simply not for believers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2177	I think the post to Karin Andersen really reveals the whole point of having an activity obligation for social welfare recipients. For what is Andersen's representative saying after eight red-green years? – Yes, they meet in the social office and do not get a single response, most of them. That's exactly what this government wants to do. Today it is possible, if the municipality so wishes, to introduce an activity obligation. Now Stortinget will have the opportunity to decide that all municipalities will offer it. That'll give you results. In the future, we will not find a Nav office that does not have measures for them. So Karin Andersen says I'll take a trip to the Nav offices. I think we're a lot of people who do, at least I, after I became the head of the Labour and Social Committee at the Stortinget. Last week I was at two big Nav congresses. One was for all trusted Nav staff in the Union, the other for all trusted Nav staff in the Academics. They gave us one clear advice when, hopefully, we are now adopting the obligation of activity for young social welfare recipients. From the Nav offices they said, "Give us a penalty option if you don't show up, and if you refuse to contribute." Because today, that's how you don't show up. More than every three people don't meet up to an hour that a case handler has spent time planning, and said no to others who would come that day, because someone else would come – and then they won't come. It'll take time. It's resource-intensive. That's not good. Then I think that with this government – with the total resource use – we will get more results than the red-green managed eight years, because our recipe is clear demands, clear goals. Efforts are needed, not necessarily more jobs. The whole point is that this policy package will lead to fewer social clients.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2186	Just quite briefly: the last of Arve Kambe, that one here will get better results than the red-green thing in eight years, is listed and will be checked out in time. But back again to Heggelund: It's true that there was more to the setting, I didn't refer from the whole default in my post here instead, but I can also include the point that Heggelund asks: ‘The government has therefore opened the door to look at the device on the children’s supplement, in particular in the light of the Velferds and Migration Committee and Distribution Committee’.» Now we're not in government anymore, so we've made that assessment in the group. We're back here in the budget now, we've assessed it and concluded in the same way. What someone had to say and meant in a preparatory debate, yes, there may be so many. That's the way it is in all parties, that someone has one view and another has a different view, and then the majority finally decides what is going to be the party's policy, and that's the way it is with the Workers' Party in this case. Then Stefan Heggelund believes in it as much as he likes, but in the Workers' Party, at least it's the group that decides what is the Workers' Party's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2199	I'm going to be brief, but I think it's incredibly hard to hear the representative Kambe talk about the obligation of activity for young people. It sounds like he's assuming that those young people who don't get into activity, who don't get into education and work, are too late, and that just you push them into action, yeah, then they get started, yeah, then it's going to go. Most people are aware that if you can get a motivation from within, if you can get an individual follow-up where you feel that you can participate and decide what to do, and if you have a statutory right to follow up, then I think it will actually be possible to get these kids to do something they want to do. So I also want to ask: does the representative Kambe believe that it is that if Nav punishes young people who have ended up outside, then this helps these young people, or does he think it can pull them further down into the mud? I think it's very complex what problems these young people have, and that's why I think it's absolutely essential to meet them individually with measures and not just to introduce an obligation to face up to forced labour, because I think that will help to make a lot of those young people feel even more depressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2210	:We are talking here about the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients as if they were all the same. I think it's very strong to hear it. Anyone who knows someone who's a social welfare recipient knows that there's a lot of difference, and that many who are in that situation have a lot of difficulty in participating in almost any activity. Otherwise we talk about individual solutions. I thought there should also be individual solutions in terms of what is best for those who are in that situation. The fact that young people sitting in the data room are required to have an activity obligation in order to receive social assistance should be lacking. That makes sense. And I expect everyone here, including Karin Andersen from SV, to fully agree with that, but it requires an individual assessment. What was the action of the red-green government in this area was the qualification programme, so that one would not go on social assistance all the time. One would get help, assistance, to clarify what was one's ability to work. Was it such that there was a disservice that was the matter, well, then it was to be clarified, and one would get dissatisfaction, so that one wouldn't go on social assistance. Had a working capacity, one would be assisted into work. Then, for many people, you will find yourself in a situation where you have a partial ability to work, and then we are in what has been the repeater of this debate, that is, how we make it possible for people with partial working skills to have a paid job, with their working capacity. I think it's too easy to talk about duty of activity for social welfare recipients as if everyone were the same. I think it is quite unworthy when we know how many social welfare recipients are struggling, and where it would be a completely wrong measure to demand it as a general scheme. On the other hand, demanding it for a youth sitting in the boys' room is absolutely correct, and it has the full support of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2221	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2224	I had to take the word after Lundtigen's posts just to clear up a misunderstanding. It is quite clear that we, who are in favour of introducing an activity obligation for social welfare recipients, believe that there is a difference between people. It is those who are able to do a job, which we believe should have a duty to work, not those who have major health challenges, and who are unable to do so. That's what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2231	Then it seems to be clear. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6-9. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 10 and 11 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2261	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change be made of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2272	Today, we are going to adopt a very good health budget, which continues to build the patient’s healthcare. When the budget was presented, it quickly became clear that many cheered. Several saw that there was a lot and good bet. The budget hearing was the most positive thing I can remember over my years in the Health Committee. But the opposition is not satisfied. Kjersti Toppe and the Center Party have pointed out, week after week, what they think is wrong and lacking in health, and I think she has now been in absolutely all the areas that are possible to find. Just before the weekend, the criticism of mental health in the municipalities went, and that now there had to be a stepping-up plan with earmarked funds. Criticism of your own policies is admirable, and I share Toppe's concern. That is why the government has already started work on a rapprochement plan for drug and mental health, and we have already reintroduced funds for this in the previous budget. This is continued with an increase in 2015. This budget also continues to focus on community psychologists with a continuation of grants. The progress party went to the elections on a strengthening of mental health and alcohol, and we deliver on this. Hospitals have been asked to grow more in drug and mental health than in somatic care. We have earmarked the purchase of 200 long-term lucky days at private premises. A lot of people have already had a new opportunity, and more people will come to it. Volunteering is also strengthened this year. These do invaluable work and are too many the only security they have in their everyday lives. On Saturday, I attended and celebrated two years of rest for a 24 - year - old girl. Her condition with a rush started when she was nine years old. Through the Child Protection system, she has had to move 18 times. She now uses the volunteer a lot in her everyday life. On Saturday she helped to make a fine mark of her two-year anniversary. Without own housing where there is room to invite many people, and without family to share the joy with, volunteering becomes a fantastic substitute. Volunteers at the Court had decorated and covered to a nice long table, and we ate good food that the guests brought with them. Several of the guests contributed with entertainment, and some gave speech. But there were also other things that happened at this party, that touched my heart. Jenta had invited employees from where she had been for long-term treatment. Two of these actually took the long trip to share this day with the girl. Furthermore, on her DPS she has used music therapy in her recovery. Also her music therapist met up, with his sound system and his guitar. He could tell that his boss had looked a little strange on him when he asked if it was okay that he went to a party with one of his patients. The party reached its climax when he played and the girl sang. I do not expect all employees to engage so personally in their work, but the experience from Saturday showed me how many amazing people actually work in the healthcare sector, and how much it means when you provide the little extra. This day reminded me of how good things can be when you unite the public, the private and the ideals. My meeting with the music therapist and their conduct made me extra proud that in this budget we have actually raised the importance of thinking new – taking care of what is good, while developing the service. Music acts as therapy for all people, used correctly, it can even replace medicines. This budget is more about putting the patient in the centre, thinking new and increasing quality. 15.4 million. This appropriation is intended to facilitate the launching by municipalities of competence measures, as well as the launching of new work and development on the basis of local conditions and needs. Also Audun Lysbakken and SV have had many media releases about health issues. Now, last out, SV would forbid older sick people to share double rooms in a nursing home against their will. To ANB, Lightbakken says that there must be a failure statement and a belly pad for a party that has promised a decent and good care for the elderly, that the municipalities serve to force people into double rooms. The light board is obviously not aware that it has always been very economical to continue, which some municipalities have chosen to call this coercion. It's precisely because of this that we're considerably reducing this profitability. So it was SV's policy that made it economically exclusive to operate with increased use of double rooms. But what is bad about SV's proposals is that it may seem that SV has not understood that we lack sick homes in Norway. I grunt at the idea of the consequences such a ban may have for individuals who are totally dependent on the care and care of the lucky day. You have not wanted to find out how many spaces are missing, but that there are very many missing, I thought we agreed. This too has been taken into account by the Right Party Government. In the past, municipalities were not allowed to keep waiting lists. We've lifted this and turned our heads around. Now we need to know how many people are waiting. Only then can we get real insight into the real need and plan realistically from it. We've increased the grants considerably, and this has already given results. We now experience that a grant of 500 additional places has been applied for over the first ten months of the year compared to the whole year last year. This is positive, especially given that there were less than 600 new places over eight years. This shows that the level of the grant matters. 2 500 new applications will be added in 2015. The government has therefore started work with a view to establishing a right-of-rights attachment to the care and care of the lucky day. For years, the Progress Party has pointed out that it is wrong when landfilling and government promises better care for the elderly, as long as this is the responsibility of the municipality. The Progress Party has been alone in believing that a greater responsibility should be assumed by the State. But now we're doing just that. Increased funds for the enhancement of competences and grants for music therapy and management development have been proposed by government leadership and resources. We want to take a greater responsibility for helping the municipalities on the way. The budget contains 30 million. to develop an overall health register for municipal health and care services. This will increase knowledge and transparency about the quality of care services. In addition, work is under way on Dementia 2020. Patients and relatives shall take an active part in this work. But perhaps even more important is our pilot project with individual municipalities that are going to be involved in testing state funding for all care. I am pleased that so many municipalities already before they know what this will mean have been informed that they want to join us. Torgeir Micasen and the Workers' Party have been a little more cautious in their criticism of health services. They have understood that after all, criticism falls back on themselves. The mica has recognised in several debates that they did not do enough, and has realized that they did not come to an end. The working party has had the main focus on hospitals. That's good, because there's a lot to do here. We have now been able to present two hospital budgets that collectively facilitate a higher rate of growth in patient treatment, compared to what the red-greens were adopted over their eight years. Waiting times should be reduced and the number of people waiting should be reduced, while at the same time focusing more on quality, safety and freedom of choice. The main intervention comes with the National Health and Sickness Plan and with the subsequent closure of the health regions. In the meantime, however, several interventions are being made: a record increase in patient treatment, the introduction of free treatment options, an increase in the ISF rate, the removal of the treatment package, the reintroduction of the ‘golden rule’, making it easier and more reasonable to conclude leases for both construction and equipment and red tape. The work we started this year has already shown results. At the end of the second tertiary, there were 10,300 fewer people waiting for a call to a hospital than at the same time last year. In this way, we can counteract the two-part health system that we've experienced in recent years. In 2005, a majority supported an increase in the de minimis threshold for the pre-authorised reimbursement of medicinal products. This was not followed up by the previous government, and the limit of 5 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. This has been a major obstacle to the introduction of more new and innovative medicines for the benefit of patients. Now many patient groups can cheer. The government doubles the de minimis ceiling in this budget, thus increasing from 5 million. NOK 25 million. kr. For several years, together with the Left, Right and Christian People's Party, the Progress Party has stood alone to raise the theme of care and relief at the end of life, as well as the follow-up of seriously ill and dying children. It is therefore with great pleasure that these parties are promoting this separately now, even if we are waiting for a separate report on the subject. In this budget, these parties have proposed some of these measures. Among other things, we have proposed funds to the Gatehospital for the creation of three palliative sites for the treatment of drug addicts. However, the amount has fallen out of the text. In concrete terms, it is therefore proposed that 2.5 million be allocated. The funds earmarked for this action are allocated to this action under the heading. Heading 72.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2342	In July 2010, we read in the nations: ‘An increase in the tax on disease is unacceptable for FrP. Unfortunately, it is not only Inge Wohnung and Bent Höie who see it as a matter of struggle that the Nordics should be flogged for the necessary medical treatment." Also later in July 2010 the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos was on the track and once again felt that excesses were taxes on sickness, and that high proportions would lead to more use of private services and increased class divisions. On 8 August 2013 – once again from Kjønaas Kjos: ‘Unfortunately with increased excess. Frp rejects Right Session Request... In addition to last year’s government budget, the Right Party Party Government increased the de minimis ceiling from DKK 100 to 200 and saved SEK 37 million. kr. Or, as the representative of the Progress Party mentioned earlier, they increased the tax on disease. It is also worth noting that the Progress Party prioritised cutting off the fuel tax rather than cutting off the balances of the state budget of the year. My question will therefore be: Has taxes on disease become acceptable to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2358	Taxes on disease are never acceptable. That's why we keep the excesses down, and that's why this government has stopped the liquidation of tax deductions for particular large costs of illness. In the case of that exact refund, it's more about a huge bureaucracy, how many annual works agreed to send out small amounts to people, who at the end of the year had reached a ceiling. In the worst case, there's someone who doesn't get 199 kroner. For someone else, it's that they don't get 40 kroner. So that's not an increase of $200 for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2365	The representative of Kjønaas Kjos has been – and is – very concerned with free hospital choices, and drug treatment also has a big, big heart for her. How will the Kjenaas Kjos and the Progress Party ensure that these two things go together, that it is possible to combine them, so that the drug user does not become the loser in free choice of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2370	Today, the addict knows quite a bit about what is available from offers out there. They may not always know enough to choose for themselves what is right for them, but I think it is very important that a drug addict – in consultation with a regular and abusing consultant – participates in being a boss in his own life, directing the way out, because it is so incredibly important that they believe they can do it. And when they're just assigned a place that they really don't want to, it gives them a very bad starting point. Then there's something about these people being different, like you and me, they need different offers. There's a diversity out there, and I want to give them the opportunity to get what's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2375	Thank you for being mentioned by name in the article. I'll take that as I've said something right. I have asked the Health Minister before whether the government will not introduce a mental health programme in the municipalities. Then I have been told that it should not be done by the government, they should have an escalating plan for the field and an escalating plan for rehabilitation. Then I thought I was listening that the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos said from the spokesperson that there would now be an escalating plan for the drug field and mental health in the municipality. If that happens, I don't think there's any reason to hide it in the settings. I want to give Kari Kjöna's Kjos the opportunity to deepen the new proposal, because in the case of the Center Party, it will applaud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2382	Russ and mental health are very closely linked. The budget sees that we have now combined the two chapters into one common chapter. We also say when we grant extra funds to municipalities, that they should go to the drug field and mental health. When we make an escalating plan for the drug field, psychological health is necessarily a very large part of it, as it is one of the main challenges for drug addicts to wear out mentally. For me, a stepping-up plan for the drug field is also becoming a strengthening in the field of mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2389	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2393	Few fields engage more than health policy. It's not weird. What Biggest decides in the areas we are going to affect today is about one of the closest things in life: sickness, pain, death, but also birth, life and hope. That health is so important to so many, I think we need to think even more carefully about when we ask the following question: what are the most important tasks that we as a society are now facing? What are we going to bet on? What's the most important thing for us? Before I come to the answers to the questions, I shall hurry to say that I believe that the health budget for next year is very good. Unlike the committee leader, who seems to think that very much was black before the Advance Party and the Right came into government, and that now the health service has come to heaven, I believe I have every opportunity to boast of what is good. Fortunately, there is a lot that unites us, and many proposals have therefore also received the full support of the Workers' Party in the vote. However, in several and partly crucial areas, we regret to note that there is no link between what the Right Party and the Advance Party promised before the elections and what is now being delivered in the Health Budget for next year. I'm going to point out three specific areas where the Workers' Party and the Government are separating layers. Difference No The first is that we in the Labour Party believe that we should not just talk about public health, but that we should also bet on public health. The most important thing is, as you know, what happens before people get sick, and that we take action where people live their lives. Investing in good kindergartens, schools, health centres, school health services, the community and the elderly is therefore investing in our future health, and all this is happening in municipalities. Therefore, one of the main health investments in the Alternative Approach of the Workers' Party is to strengthen the free resources of municipalities by 2.3 billion. kr in addition to the arrangements of the government. In addition, there is compensation for the absence of tax revenue. It provides space to bet on prevention through safe and good municipal health and care services that reach all. In addition, we take seriously both our own and others' knowledge. We have presented our own public health package in the budget. There we put 200 million dollars in the school health service, because we know that once we've given money to the school health service in the past, not all the money has come along. We've taken the consequences of that -- now we're labeling it. We learn from our own experience. It doesn't mean that things were black before, but I think it's a nobility for politicians that we sometimes dare to stop and see if what we're now proposing is working, or if we're going to do something new. So let's do that in this area. We reintroduce, in our proposal, the system of fruit and vegetables in high school. We meant it before, but we're even safer now, because now we have clear research that shows that school fruit has positive health effects, and we're taking research and knowledge seriously. Difference No 2: We enable the municipality to carry out the tasks that we all agree on here. Throughout the country, local government budgets are now being created, which have direct consequences for the country's caregivers, young people and the elderly, and we are concerned about the reports that are coming. The combination of the government's moderate income structure for the next year, and their unwillingness to discuss the failure of tax revenues that many municipalities are now reporting, makes many municipalities in a difficult situation. And I want to repeat that I think it's kind of funny and a little absurd that we have a government, with the head of government at the head, who in the Question Time on Wednesday refused to discuss whether to compensate the municipalities for tax revenue that is missing, because we have a system for it, so less than a year ago you were willing to clean up toll debts, where you have the exact same system. At that time, it was more important than the municipality's lack of tax revenue. We don't mean that, and that's why we add 2.3 billion. kr more on the table of municipalities and compensates for the tax failure of municipalities. So to difference number. 3rd@item: inlistbox It's about our hospitals and the will and ability to prioritize them – not just talk about them: let's go back briefly in history. On 13 August 2013, the Workers' Party presented a plan that included an investment promise of 12 billion. kr more for hospitals during the major period 2013–2017. Then, among other things, he said: The Medical Association and the Nursing Association: ‘This shows a concrete willingness to invest in healthcare.’ Bent Höie, on the other hand, said to NTB: ‘There is nothing new in this package. Their 12 billion is what I call a proud news. It takes the expected development, calculates four years in time, and calls it news.’ In today's Business life on 16 August – the week after – Höie went even further and said our plan was a little ambitious. And Höie confirms in the same interview that even more billions of people would grow in hospitals with the Right than in the Workers' Party. Then, one year in advance, until earlier this fall, on October 14th, the government is submitting its proposal to the government budget and granting 2 billion. kr – not the required 3 bn. kr, in order to reach the Workers' Party's electoral pledge relating to the hospital budget. Let me quote the Medical Association when they commented on this: ‘Health appears to be a loser in the State budget for 2015.’ The nurses' union says that: ‘The hospital budget is too poor’. LHL writes: «We note that health is not a priority in the government budget...». Psychologists' association: ‘Empty budget for mental health’. The hospital budget is not weak because the government lacks money. Norway has a lot of money, and the government has a record budget and a very high level of oil money usage, but the government prioritises the money incorrectly. I want to repeat: it is a serious error priority when the government manages to come up with the idea of proposing tax cuts to the richest 1 pst. of Norway’s population — the same size as the growth of all hospital budgets in Norway next year. I think we could spend this money on so much more important things, for example. to satisfy the right-wing promises of the hospitals, which they gave the week after the Workers' Party gave the same promises. We intend to follow up on what we promised: in the case of public health, we have put a public health package in the budget. We will follow up the municipalities, and I am the first to admit that our instruments in that sector have not been strong enough, and that is why we are in the process of discussing how we can strengthen the tools for speeding up the construction of elderly care in Norway. But we don't know that we have to have enough free income for the municipalities if we're going to achieve these goals at all, so we're going to put a billion on top there and follow up, in our alternative budget, our hospital investment plan. We're adding 1.2 billion to our alternative budget. kr more on the table for bets in hospitals. That money is to be spent. a separate hospital quality package new medical devices new treatment methods evening open outpatients pilot projects on waiting time reduction earmarked for medical research more for mental health and drug treatment safer cancer treatment more turnarounds for newly trained doctors With that, we're on track to fulfill what we promised. And unfortunately, we can't say the same thing about the Right. I realize that this is sometimes a simple task for the government when they have to explain themselves, because they have, after all, put on the table a budget of 2 billion. increase of SEK to hospitals. It's not cut, says someone. Of course it's not. But it has to be seen in the context that we are getting older, we are getting more, we can deal with ever new conditions, new technology is giving new investment needs, and many medicines are becoming more expensive. All in all, this requires increased resources. You don't have to go to the Labour Party in Stortinget to confirm that what I'm saying is right. You can go to a number of hospital administrators, employees and others who now report that the budget presented by the government has gone under the radar so far, because of many other difficult issues that have dominated the public. In many places it is now reported – due to a weak hospital budget, combined with efficiency requirements and some political leadership – that this will lead to cutbacks and not bets in the budgets. I believe that, through our alternative approach, we have put forward an overall health budget, which I am proud of. This does not mean that there will not be any shortcomings in the Workers' Party's arrangements for the next year. It should have gotten out. Of course it will be, but because we dare to say no to the government's main wager, which unfortunately is to give the most tax relief to those who have the most from before, we can afford an investment promise that follows up the promises we made before the election. I'll bring that up with our suggestions in case no. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2490	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2495	Today, many people are waiting for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. It's people who have their lives on hold. In Norway, in fact, more than 10,000 people inject opiates. In the state of Buskerud, in smoke, there is an institution, the Manifesto Foundation, with 74 competent employees. The revenue manager is quite concerned, because there are patients who have been in line for over a year. My question is to the Workers' Party, which is skeptical about free treatment choices, calling it an experiment and saying that patients get harmed. How can they say that patients get harmed by getting more quickly into treatment and choosing their own treatment site, and what solutions does the Workers' Party have to get more addicts into treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2502	What solutions do we have? We suggest that we do more of what we know works, and what the government itself describes is the most effective way we can help people with drug addiction. If we want to increase the treatment capacity for them – I agree – we should do so through the system we have today. There we get more treatment for the money, and we ensure that we do not build up a comprehensive bureaucracy, approval system, governance, price structures – all that the government uses side by side in the letter of consultation to problematize itself. In addition, I believe that there is a lot of mess in Norwegian care, not only on capacity, but also on quality and on the thinking around that we have to much more put in effort around an entire human being, and not that it should only be to get into treatment and then you fall back quickly to what you were doing before. I believe that there are many parties here – including my own – that should think new, and I encourage the government and government parties to do so, rather than go wild in a bureaucratic performance project in which I unfortunately have no particular faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2509	The representative, Ms. Mikalsen, began by saying that there was a big difference between the government party that had promised before the election and what was delivered afterwards. That is why I would like to ask a few questions to the representative, Ms Mikalsen. In connection with the fact that the Micaelsen party itself was in government, it was promised that by 2015 there would be 12 000 new places in the health and care sector. When you left just over a year ago, the number of new jobs was not 12,000, but 567. My first question to the representative, Mr Mikalsen, is: how does the representative view the implementation of the electoral promise versus the election promises of others? That's point one. Point 2: The Red-Green Government proposed to remove the special deduction for those with particularly high disease costs. This government reintroduced it. What is the background for him thinking that it was a good idea to let the sickest be those who had to be extra hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2516	To take the last one first: it was because a deduction is about that it's just those who are at work, who get pleasure from such a kind of deduction. If you did not have a job and a taxable income, you did not enjoy it the same way. In addition, it was partly bureaucratic, and we thought that it could be done in a more effective way and now more by spending the same money as we took in there, on targeted actions for the same group. In the case of the elderly, I have said quite clearly what I think of it. That's not good enough. We had numbers – these are, moreover, the same numbers that I now hear the committee leader uses – on commitments given to municipalities that in the future want to build nursing homes and the staffed nursing homes of the day. I would strongly warn the government parties not to go around now and think that only the commitments look good, there are several hospitals built in Norway. If that was the case, we were very good at it. But it turned out that there was some type of plug somewhere, where the municipalities didn't dare take the next step and invest. That's what we've learned from, and we're now discussing internally how we're going to meet it up to the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2523	The working party has been sitting at the rudder in Health-Norway for eight years, and the queues were many and long before you took over and while you crashed. Then I see in their alternative budget that you've put in 140 million. SEK for the extra opening of evening outpatient clinics, which is also used in many hospitals. My questions to the Workers' Party are two. One is, why didn't the Workers' Party use the occasion when they had the eight years to spend more on evening open out clinics than what was done? Second, the Labour Party believes that there will be a need for more nurses, auxiliary nurses, laundry services, maintenance of equipment, secretaries and, in particular, for both areas and monitoring possibilities for patients treated in the evening outpatient clinic, and is 140 million. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2530	Yes, there will be a need for everything that the representative points to, and no, it will not be enough to open all the hospitals that want it. That's why we don't say that either. It shall be for testing. This should be tried by more people than is the case today. Many hospitals are already in the process of doing this, and the possibilities are increasing as the budget increases by 1.2 billion. In addition to the government, which is also supported by the representative of Bollestad. I could give a long talk about all the amazing things that happened in the Norwegian health service on our watch in eight years. I think to be absolutely honest that people are smart enough to realize that it happened very well, but it's also very much undone. I tend to say that it would really be a little silly to make choices if you really thought that after eight years of power you had nothing more to do in this country, so you could just leave it to someone else. I don't want it like that, and I don't really think the representative of Bollestad really means it. I think I'll leave it alone, and say that I can set up anytime and hold a seminar on the results of red-green politics. Now I want to look forward, and then there are these needs I have addressed, which I think are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2537	That seminar must probably be another time, because now is the time! The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2542	In a few months, the government will present important new health messages, followed by legislative proposals to the Stortinget. Above all, there is a clear vision and a considerable change in the pace of health policy thinking, namely the government's ambition to create the patient's health service. A red thread goes through all the government does in the field of health — in the hospital sector, in the municipal health service, for mentally ill, for addicts, and in rehabilitation and public health. Unlike the previous government, we put the patient and the human being in front of the system and let it shape all work on developing and changing health care. While the government is engaged in important patient-oriented reforms, we are dealing with the Health Budget for 2015, a budget with great growth in many areas compared to previous years. With this year’s health budget, the government shows that the security of assistance and care when needed should be a pillar of our welfare society. The budget facilitates the creation of the patient’s healthcare system today, in order to provide rapid treatment and safe healthcare in the future. It is still a challenge that not all those in need of help get the help they need in time. But with the government budget and through the conciliation with the cooperation parties, we are well in the process of strengthening our efforts towards those who have waited too long for many years. We know that over the years, patients have waited unnecessarily long for necessary treatment in hospitals, including health services where there is free capacity for private operators. In the 2015 budget, the government is therefore taking two important steps to reduce waiting times and health queues. It facilitates an activity growth of 2.15 pst. in hospitals next year, and through the first two budgets, the government has facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment compared to what the red-green government has adopted over its eight years. The second important step is to start introducing free treatment options, which increase the freedom of choice for patients – in line with the overall ambition to provide the patient’s healthcare. The free choice of treatment also means that we remove the activity ceilings in public hospitals and open up more purchases from private individuals through tenders. We promised our voters to give the patient more power, mobilise capacity among private people and stimulate public hospitals to become more effective. We deliver and start with those patient groups that have waited the longest – those with mental health challenges and drug dependence. We are today adopting a strong commitment also to preventive health services. The patient in the centre is also about putting children and young people's living conditions in the centre. Next year, the budget contains 450 million. kr to improve the development of health care and school health services in municipalities. When the committee was visiting Arendal in the fall, we met a multi-disciplinary health centre where they told us about the great benefits of having all the groups working with children and young people together under one roof. There is no doubt that we need more of everything in health services — more midwives, health sisters, physiotherapists, doctors, psychologists and trade unions. Municipalities are responsible for finding their local solutions, but the money they receive from municipalities will be used for this purpose. It is worrying that the number of children and young people facing mental challenges has increased in recent years. Our government has a clear ambition for lower thresholds and faster help for children and young people. Small challenges must not grow into major chronic mental health problems. Creating safe children and young people is the best investment we make to equip Norway for the future. Over eight red-green years, those struggling with mental health challenges and drug dependence were pushed further and further down at the health policy table. Waiting times increased, while more and more treatment institutions were closed. The budget we are adopting today, and the consensus with the Left and Christian People's Party provides a further boost for these patients. We reinforce the social profile and center the most vulnerable user groups. The total earmark is now 450 million. This will help to ensure that people with drug problems receive comprehensive, individualised and accessible services. Detoxification must be accompanied by immediate treatment, and treatment must be accompanied by housing, job and activity opportunities and a life outside the drug environment. The most vulnerable phase is the one immediately after discharge from the specialist health service, and now municipalities can strengthen their efforts in this field. But it's not just the municipalities that are making an important effort. There is fantastic work in the voluntary sector in Norway, including in this area. Many equals contribute to creating life happiness and activity in everyday life. Through good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have increased the framework for the work of the voluntary sector, and many important measures have strengthened their framework conditions. As a football-happy politician, I'm proud that we're continuing a three-million-dollar grant. kr to Norwegian Toppfotball Street Team bet. The combination of sport and drug withdrawal works well in many of our elite clubs, for example. in Stabæk and Vålerenga. Now we hope that more clubs will be able to start street football next year. It makes even more sense to sports, and it creates everyday days with gold edges for those who are on the street layer. Last week’s media attention around Norwegian elderly care shows the need for a clear shift in care policy. We must become more concerned with creating dignity than with adopting dignity. The budget for 2015 and the upcoming major messages provide hope for a care service that will meet the individual caregiver better than today. But it is a demanding work the government has started on, and the municipalities have to deliver on. There has been no lack of supervision, reports or reports in recent years on the state of Norwegian care for the elderly. What has been lacking is the political will to set realistic goals. Therefore, the government has determined that we cannot leave to the municipalities alone to solve the challenges, not because there are only sad stories in Kommune-Norway – many are satisfied with the offer they receive – but there is too much variation, and we have too little overview of quality and capacity at national level. From the first budget, the government has increased the appropriations to several institutional places. The state now pays half the bill when the municipality builds new places, and next year the municipalities will receive a subsidy for 2,500 happy days care places. As mentioned earlier in this debate, the evening post gave us the fascination with what the red-green government has been able to do over its eight years – 567 new places. But now the pace shift has come. As of 31 October of this year, municipalities have applied for grants for 500 more lucky days' care places than in the whole of last year. As important as space security, the patient encounters a professionally robust service. This is why the government is also strongly committed to the development of expertise in care by 400 million. kr next year. We start a master's programme for advanced nursing in the municipal health service, and we focus more on important leadership training. In the November 18th issue of this year, researcher Jorunn Andrea Burnd calls for a debate on the care of elderly dying patients. It is a debate we are going to take, and we are going to discuss the concern for the dying regardless of age. The government has ordered a technical report on palliation coming this month. It's been 15 years since the last review of how we take care of the end of life. We look forward to the technical report and expect it to respond to where it is not good enough, what professional guidelines are missing, and what we need to do in the education field in the future. But the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left are not just waiting for the trade report. We know that the palliation field needs to be strengthened, and allocates a total of 12 million. kr in the budget for the development of competence in relieving treatment and palliation. We are earmarking funds for the JLOB association, which is driving the development of knowledge about children's palliation, and we are stimulating the start-up of further training for health professionals on children's palliation. Work on creating the patient’s healthcare also includes the ambition to provide security for help in what is one of life’s most important and demanding phases — care, care and treatment into death. The red thread in the blue budget is the care of individuals, the emphasis on the patient’s unique position in healthcare and the solutions to reduce unnecessary waiting. In this way, health cows and insecurity can be replaced by quality of life and quality of life. We create the patient's health service by shifting power from the system to the patient. We are all using good forces, and we are creating the patient's health service today to provide everyone with rapid treatment and secure services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2578	At the same time last year, the right was quick to earmark the municipal drugs. It was a reintroduction without any evidence that the municipalities did not use the money for the purpose. In the case of school health, the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen was in and very well described the importance of giving priority to prevention measures aimed at children and young people and mental health, and that the nurses’ association has conducted a study showing that only 50 pst. By the municipalities they used the funds for what they were supposed to do, and have now done a new investigation that still shows that the money does not go for the purpose. My question is: why the designation of drugs, but not the designation of drugs for school health until we reach the ceiling that we all agree on in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2587	It is not quite right that we did not see that there was a reduction in the amount of cannabis in the municipalities. We had got a lot of clear signals on that. That's why the designation of these funds was a very clear priority from our government, and where we now also increase this designation by 100 million. kr to. So I'm glad that in the budget agreement we are spending so much money on health care and school health services, as I mentioned in my article. 270 million. SEK in 2015 may mean 450 new annual works in the municipalities, in addition to the 180 million. kr that we continue from the red-green setting last year. But we don't want to bind the funds. It's because the municipalities have different needs and needs. Some people need a health sister, as I said, others need a midwife, some need more psychologists in the ministry. So the government will of course follow up on how the money is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2596	It seems that the patient’s health care also involves cutting psychiatry across the whole country. The golden rule is cracking cracks. The Norwegian Psychological Association called for warning before the weekend that new reporting routines in health care establishments in 2013 created a wrong impression of increased activity in mental health protection. Group calls shall be reported as two actions if there are two handlers. In children’s and adolescents’ psychiatry, it is required that a complete two forms that take more than 12 minutes should be registered as three measures. I wonder if the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen is satisfied with the creative bookkeeping that is revealed in health services, and what gives the government the alibi because there is actually a growth, when we see that there are so many big cuts out in psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2603	Among the main objectives of the government is to give priority to mental health and drugs. We've done that from day one. We reintroduced the golden rule that says that the growth of each health business in the field of drugs and mental health should be individually greater than the growth of the somatic environment. We're starting to see the results of this. With regard to what the representative Toppe asks about, there is something we get to follow closely, but it is also a very clear intention from our government that people with mental and drug problems should get their treatment as close as possible to where they live. Therefore, there is not a reduction in specialist healthcare, but many of these patients are now receiving treatment in DPSs that are closer to where they live and that allows them to receive their treatment as a natural part of their daily life, in work, in studies and in the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2610	We have been able to read in the setting that the representatives of the government parties refer to the government's investigation of the statutory right to the care and care of luck. There is an investigation that many people have stumbled a little over, both because it is strangely unclear what kind of model you see, and because it is a clearly statutory right to the care and care of the day's law. Together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, SV has made a proposal in the vote that the government parties have chosen to vote against, a proposal that we ask to clarify to the municipalities that there is actually such a right, so that this investigation should not cause confusion about this. Therefore, I would like to hear the reasons given by the government parties that they encourage the investigation of a right that exists, and do not want to help clarify to the municipalities that this right applies today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2617	The biggest challenge today – not just in the care of the elderly, because we have a lot of nursing people under the age of 67 who need treatment in municipalities – is just a lack of space and competence in municipalities. That's all, the biggest challenge we've ever had. It also means that very many people who claim – as the representative Lightbaking says – more help, get too little help. That is why this government is committed to building capacity and building skills so that municipalities can meet patients who are entitled to this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2624	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2627	As a result of the budgetary agreement of the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government parties Right and the Advance Party have joined in strengthening the health and care budget in important areas, seen from the stand of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party is concerned that older people should be guaranteed a worthy old age. In order to fulfil the guarantee of dignity, such as, inter alia: Ensures that everyone will have a sick home place if necessary – and we will not talk about it when they want to, but if necessary – there will be a need to significantly strengthen the number of care places in the municipalities. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is adding up to 2,500 new places of care, even though we wanted to use our alternative budget and proposed another 1,500 more places. The point is not to offer most hospitals, but to offer places of good luck to those who have medical use for it, and to reduce the use of double rooms, which is a problem in this debate as well. The need for lucky day care is much greater today than what we have an offer for. The Christian People's Party will legislate the right to a place of nursing and housing with the care of the lucky day when the disease indicates that you need it. Centres for old-age and nursing medicine are researching pain, dementia and how we can best care for the elderly through care services in municipalities, and will contribute to increased recruitment and good priorities. The Christian People's Party is pleased that, in the budgetary agreement with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, we had a positive impact on the funding for the work of the Centre. When we know that a doctor in the hospital has 1.3 patients, and that a doctor in the hospital has 130 patients, and we know that 60 pst. Of the patients in nursing homes who have pain, either get mistreatment or undertreatment, we have a need for knowledge, and I am glad that we have a centre like the old-age and nursing home centre. Health surveillance points out that there are still challenges and deficiencies in the service provision for people with dementia and that the offer of dementia to residents needs to be further strengthened. The Christian People's Party assumes that this offer will be strengthened in the years to come and is given high priority when the government is working on its Dementia Plan 2020. However, thanks to fires in non-profit organisations and in municipal care, many older people — even though sometimes able to listen to it in the debates — get good and complete care in their everyday lives. Nevertheless, many sick elderly people are undernourished by meaningful activities. It's not uncommon that demented patients in hospital don't come out more than one to two times a year – maybe a nice summer day when it's down on the balcony, and there's room for the summer vicars, they get an air ride out. It cannot be the sole responsibility of the fires to ensure that the elderly have a meaningful daily life. We need adequate and competent staffing at all the country's hospitals and at home. The cultural walking stick is an offer that gives good cultural experiences and everyday pleasures to many older people, and in the Christian People's Party, we are happy that through the budgetary conciliation, we got this money back in place and that this offer remains. There is no contradiction between using other types of treatment, such as that mentioned by the Progressive Party of this Chair, that music therapy can be a good part of a treatment in Norwegian nursing homes. A worthy old age is not about the number of care places or how many ‘counters’ we have. A worthy old age is about people meeting with old age getting individualised care, extra help when needed and competent treatment as needed. It is necessary to facilitate the individual's living a rich life, despite the different limitations of illness and old age. How we take care of people at their weakest, says a lot about the warmth of the heart that exists in a society. It is a political task to ensure that serious sick and dying are given proper care. The Christian People's Party will stimulate empowerment throughout the healthcare system for relief and care at the end of life. People in the final phase of life must have a holistic care, good pain relief and palliative care adapted to the individual, in good cooperation with their relatives. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that we in the budget were able to make an impact of $12 million. to measures of competence on care at the end of life. The Organisation Yes for the Relief and Care of Children is strengthened as a result of the budgetary agreement. Having sick, dying children in front of them is one of the heaviest things in Norwegian health care. It's kind of wrong -- age is wrong, it's not where death goes in, and it's hard to work. That's why the Christian People's Party is pleased that we're going to ensure a empowerment, especially for those who work with dying children and their families. We're also happy that we're getting further education in place. But there is one group we don't always talk about, which I think will challenge the Norwegian health care system in terms of work at the end of life. It is those who have complex drug challenges today, who will have a strong need for something different in terms of pain relief — perhaps another type of treatment in terms of how we meet them when death approaches. That's why I'm glad we're able to get 2.5 million. kr to Gatehospital, and three places. I think the three places need to be increased considerably, but we can acquire quite a lot of knowledge. The Christian People's Party is concerned that ideals are central service providers in the fields of drugs and mental health, both in terms of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. As a result of the budgetary agreement, this is reinforced by 30 million. Dr to very many who go long and many ways with those who have a drug challenge or mental challenges. More than 70,000 children in Norway suffer from alcohol or alcohol abuse by their parents. The Christian People's Party wants to promote an alcohol policy in solidarity with them struggling, precisely in view of their children. We are pleased that care especially for children with parents who have drug problems is being strengthened, and the compass is an example of someone who knows what to do to deal with just the children. Every five children or young people have impaired function due to mental challenges such as anxiety, depression or behavioural problems. It is essential for us to have a support device in place that is able to meet the waiting lists that exist. School health and health station work are important. Although the Christian People's Party would also have wanted to bind the funds there to get up on a decent level, we are nevertheless pleased with the strengthening, because we see that if we can get in early, we can cope with the great challenge and the disease development that very many of these get in their lives. We're glad that there's going to be a low-threshold offer that allows us to actually meet them at an early stage. It is often the case that the groups who themselves experience injustices or shortcomings are those who have to raise their voice and promote demands, including in the health debate. I wish we could fight for each other more. On Friday we read about Alexander Helmersberg, the father of little Milla who has Down's syndrome – a settlement with prejudices against people who are different: ‘If any customs with Downs, it’s up to some people to lift an eyebrow, even at best broadcast time on radio and TV. No politicians, no newspapers, no trains. Nobody cares. For whom does the Downschild lead his cause? Yes, Mom and Dad. They are so tired, tired and have enough to ensure that the child is followed up in kindergarten, school, leisure, health care and the flock of friends that they are entitled to.» Co-representatives: We are assigned an important task in this room – to organise good, comprehensive health services. We need people like the father of Milla, who say from when it doesn't work, and reminds us of the most basic of all, man's inherent human world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2670	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2673	Smart words at the end there. I think that's something we all have to take over. You were involved in both prevention and public health work, and I am also concerned about that. That's why I want to ask you this: we saw now an extension of the tax-free quotas, where one can substitute the smoke rate into either more beer or wine, while we see that fruit and green are removed from school. What reflections do you – and the Christian People’s Party – on exactly this combination and this public health policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2678	The President will recall that the speech is to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2682	In the Christian People's Party, we are the first to say that when smoke was made into wine – and not water for wine – there was one thing that the Christian People's Party liked little, because there is no doubt that the sales on the tax-free system have gone up an incredible percentage, and that the sales from wine monopolies in the same places where you have foreign terminals on aircraft have gone down. If I had been given a choice, and if the Christian People's Party had been given a choice, we would rather spend money on fruit and green and prevention, but we stand in cooperation, and we disagree on that priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2687	The representative Bollestad and I, the Christian People's Party and the Right, share the commitment to care for people in the final phase of life, and in the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, this was specifically promised, with 12 million. kr. Palliative care, or treatment as life approaches the end, we would like to connect with care for seriously ill children, cancer patients and elderly, sick people, but the Christian People's Party has in this budget lifted palliative care for very ill ruspacers. Why is this particularly important for the Christian People's Party, this patient group and this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2692	We know that the proportion of Norwegian people with drug problems will only increase in the future. Knowledge of what is needed in the final phase of life for this particular group, we have little of it. For the Christian People's Party, it has also been important with those whom many refer to as those who sit at the bottom of the table. We don't know why they're sitting there, but they have big challenges in the end of life. Maybe they're isolated, psychologically speaking, they don't have the family around them in the same way that very many others do, and in addition they've used a lot of drugs, a lot of drugs in life, which make them want to meet other challenges toward the end of their lives. This is important for the Christian People's Party in order to be sure that we can provide good pain management, and that we have enough knowledge to meet those who have withdrawals, if they have to move or change drugs. That's why this has been important for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2697	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2700	Preventing disease, reducing social health inequalities and ensuring preparedness and equivalent health services across the country are the objectives of the Central Party's health policy. If we're to guarantee everyone the right to good health, we need to use an active substance at the population level. We want to make the healthy choices easier – instead of fixing the repair measures against the individual. The Centre Party prioritises community and community solutions and will create a society of small social and geographical differences. Good kindergartens, good schools, safe workplaces and clean environment contribute to several good years for the most possible. The most important thing in health policy is public health policy. The Central Party wants a public health reform in the school. Free fruit and green to school students know we're giving good health benefits. The centre part prioritizes the introduction of free fruit and green for the elephants throughout the globe. We're introducing an addition to the schools that will bet on developing the school meal. The center part provides the means to initiate 1 hour of physical activity in the scullet, and we provide extra resources to strengthen the teaching of swimming. We're strengthening the school health service by 200 million. kr in addition to what the government proposed. The centre party also prioritises public health measures in the municipalities. We are increasing support for the development of health centres and learning and mastering centres in the municipalities. We increase support for outdoor organisations that facilitate physical activity. The centre area prioritises resources for the work on safe drinking water and the work on spreading antibiotic-resistant bacteria. We are increasing support for public health work for teams and associations – blah. by listening to the work of the Diabetes Association directed against migrant women and the Heartline under the auspices of the National Association for Public Health. Alcohol is the drug that causes most social and individual harm. Alcohol is the cause of a large number of admissions to somatic hospitals, and half of the patients in the psychiatric emergency services in the country have been problem drug use. Between 50 000 and 150000 children lir due to drug abuse by the adults. Restrictive alcohol policies are good public health policies to ensure freedom for all, not just for a few. In 2015, the centre cut into the tax-free quotas for both tobacco and alcohol and increase the tobacco and alcohol fees by 3 pst. Everyone living in Norway shall have the same right to security and preparedness and access to good quality treatment and care. Health and care is a public responsibility, which does not belong to market thinking and a great deal of supply and competition. While the government believes that the production of welfare services does not differ from the production of other goods and services, the Center Party just means it. The Centre Party will develop and strengthen the Public Health Service, with voluntary, non-profit actors as useful partners and an integral part. The centre party believes that government's new health reform, free treatment choices, will weaken public hospitals and patient rights, centralize supply and reduce authorities' ability to control and prioritise health provision according to their needs. The same risk results in the implementation of the Patient Rights Directive. The centre party will have less market management of health and an economy for increased patient treatment. We're about 1 billion in priority. kr more for patient treatment than the plural portion in 2015. We're giving funds for the creation of Rjukan specialist centers and free clinics, and we're making $50 million. to hospitals their work for injured refugees. For patients who, due to long travel distances, have to stay overnight before and after out-of-patient examination or treatment, the Centre Party increases overnight accommodation fees in order to provide as much equivalent access to hospital care as possible, regardless of each cage. There is a strong need to develop prevention, treatment and follow-up services for people with mental and/or psychotic disorders. We propose a five-year escalation plan in the municipalities for mental health and priority of 400 million. kr in ear-marked funds for such a escalating plan in 2015. This is our great health priority in the municipalities, as we see that the supply of patients with both abusing and mental disorders is not good enough. In addition, the Centre Party strengthens funds for health and school health services by 200 million. In addition to the government's proposal. The central party halts the government's planned reduction of day care in psychiatry, and we reverse the redistribution that is in the government's budget, which is to support such a reduction in daily treatment, and that before the supply is strengthened in the municipalities. Today there are about 23,000 home-building dents with a need for a daily supply, which does not. The central party increases the effort to develop day-to-day activities by 50 p.p., so that one will be able to get about 1,500 new places in 2015. We also double the government's bet on the Family Program, cf. tomorrow's care, to strengthen the rights of the relatives. Everyday rehabilitation can help to improve the quality of life and improve the level of function of home-building elderly people. We want to maintain an eye-catching propensity for everyday rehabilitation in the municipalities because we believe that this can improve the daily life of many older people and prevent unnecessary loss of function. Professional art and culture shall still be available for the elderly. That's why the Center Party allows 35 million. kr to the cultural walking stick. We strengthen the support system for activities in the elderly centres and the support system for food and nutrition in the care of the elderly, and we support the volunteer organisations in their work in the health and care sector. There is a great need to ensure the recruitment, quality and competence of the local health service. Medical care is an important element of the acute medical chain, and the need to develop and strengthen the system is great. We strengthen the bodyguard work in the municipalities in 2015. We also prioritise skills-enhancing measures for those who work before caring for dementia, for those who work with children with disabilities and their families, and empowerment measures for alleviating treatment at the end of life. In order to ensure the improvement of the recruitment of LAGs to district municipalities and to avoid unnecessary temporary employment, the Centre Party prioritises several resources for recruitment measures in district municipalities. In addition, we provide increased support to nation-wide voluntary organisations that carry out information and information work and to contact-creating low-threshold work in the health and care sectors. We are adding support to the Foundation Organ Donation, Hearing Aid Scheme, Heart Line, Demens Line and Visiting Service to the Red Cross. Other initiatives in the Central Party's alternative budget include a stepping up of the one-off support to 1 G from July 2015 in order to strengthen the financial system for women who have not earned the right to maternity allowance in the event of pregnancy. We also support measures to combat unwanted pregnancy and abortion. It's going to be ear-marked 5.5 million. to the work of Sex and Society to improve reproductive health among young people. For many people with incontinence and easier incontinence, reimbursement of the costs resulting from the diagnosis is an important financial contribution. The government proposes to cut support for consumables to those with easier incontinence. This is reversed in the Central Party's alternative budget because we think there's a small cut directed at a group of patients who traditionally haven't had strong numbers. We also reverse the government's reduced promises on the dental field, which we think is a cut that will affect patients who wear dry mouth and damage acid on their teeth. This is an deferred patient group that may have major suffering, a patient group that we still believe must be given priority. I think there's reason to be concerned about the developments in hospitals that we see under the new government. The government will reform Norwegian specialist health service. I refer to free treatment options, the introduction of neutral VAT, the introduction of the Patient Rights Directive. Undertakings are required to create a new strategy for increasing privatisation, for increasing private purchases. Undertakings are also subject to a 0.6 pst efficiency and red tape reform. Together, these represent a shift in Norwegian health services that will imply a level of private, commercial service provision that we have not seen in Norwegian health services before. The budget and policy of the Centre Party is the good alternative to such development. With this, I'm going to review the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2744	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2749	Kjersti Toppe is concerned with public health and is an avid spokesman for new public health measures. However, measured in public health parameters, most things went wrong with red-green control. The only thing that improved is the number of smokers, who go down, and that's a lot thanks to the Smoking Act and Dagfinn Højbrätt. We believe that there are methods other than moral index fingers that affect the health choices of the population. What makes the Center Party think that more red-green policy, which obviously has limited effect, works? Is it possible that changing attitudes are more important than even more state orders?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2756	Thank you very much for your question. I want to fix one thing first: I think it's not a moral index finger to give free fruit and green to kids in school. There's no moralism in wanting an hour of physical activity in school every day. When it comes to how development has progressed, we do not know how it had gone without the measures we have. One can talk so much about staggering work, but when it comes to alcohol and diet, we know that structural measures work. That's what's so bad, because the Right's policy of holding work is right at the top of the top. But that's not what gives results, one is forced to have structural measures, and it's a political responsibility, which some parties are willing to take and others are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2763	Kjersti Toppe has recently been very concerned with mental health, and then I have to ask about free treatment options, since we know that many people have been helped with their mental illness without it working. We know that there is a difference between coercive diseases and self-harm, to mention something. We therefore know that proper treatment is absolutely essential. So how does the Center Party manage to believe that the patient will lose to being able to choose the right treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2768	Thank you for the question. I share with the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos his commitment to the mentally ill. So to the problem of free treatment options, now there's been a case on the phone, and many of the hearing agencies are just warning against introducing it into the areas of drugs and psychiatry, among other things. warns Norwegian Psychologists' Association against it. They're warning, if there's one place not to start introducing this, it's for this patient group. It's because the system is so that it favors or owns patients who have a clear problem, who may have a type of treatment that one should have once, and then finish it. What is the great fear of free treatment options is that the intention works well, but the drug is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2775	The centre party, and not least Kjersti Toppe, are keen champions of health care and equal treatment across the country. As a nation, we can treat more and more types of diseases and often less frequently and less frequently diseases. How does the Center Party think that we as a nation should be good at all kinds of diseases, treatments, rare disease cases and major surgical challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2781	Thank you for the question. I wonder where the representative will go, but if there is cooperation with other countries in Europe, it is clear that we are very good at hospital treatment. In many areas, we have one of the largest environments of competence in Europe, and we can also claim to be in the world, so that patients get good and modern treatment and much of the best. But it is clear that we also need to cooperate with the competence environment in other countries, and as I understand today's legislation, we have an agreement on that, and there is a good example that we have a good cooperation with the competence environment in other countries when you see that there is something here that you can't figure out for yourself. So we just have to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2786	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2789	The left will have a health service that makes priorities in an open, knowledge-based and predictable way, and uses technology to provide better and safer patient treatment. The left will have well-funded public health services. Good quality of service is more important than who carries it out. The left will work towards complementing public, non-profit and private health care environments. It has a self-esteem to be able to make their own choices in terms of health and lifestyle. The left is concerned with strengthening patient and user involvement. Free choice of hospitals, user-driven personal assistance and welfare technologies are examples of offers and schemes that can contribute to this. The left will shift responsibility for public services as close as possible to the citizen. We believe it is important to strengthen primary health services and provide a broader and better health service in the community. In the view of the Left, more resources and competences in the primary health service will reduce the demand for specialist health services and in many cases provide a better quality of service. Strengthening primary health care and improved interaction between hospitals, hospitals and other community health services could result in fewer hospital cleaning, better rehabilitation and increased dignity. Everyday rehabilitation and home-based rehabilitation provide the individual with the opportunity to stay at home longer and receive treatment in a familiar environment. The left considers that health centres are the most suitable part of healthcare for children and young people to work with. We are therefore pleased to have further strengthened health stations in comparison with government parties. Prevention is important in all phases of life. Health centres have a unique opportunity to intervene early and prevent negative developments in diet, exercise or psychosocial conditions. Preventive health work is important to address social health inequalities in Norway. Much of the health promotion work is being done today by voluntary and non-profit organisations. For the Left, therefore, it is important to support public health promotion activities under the authority of voluntary activity. For children and young people, recreational and sports organisations play an important role in preventing and establishing good health practices. Here it is important to ensure the breadth and inclusion of the offer, so that more children are included. We must not forget the public health perspective of child rights in eagerness to create ones. Furthermore, the Left considers it particularly important to strengthen the response to the major public health challenges. Here we need both more research and more interdisciplinary interaction to solve the challenges. Musculoskeletal and connect with mental disorders causes many people to be absent, feeling out of control and frustration over the system. In addition, there are large health-related social security benefits, up to 70 billion. kr per year. There is a need for more knowledge of musculoskeletal disorders and increased skills to work interdisciplinaryly, as these disorders affect so much of the population. In addition, there is a need for both increased capacity and new competences. I want to draw attention to Denmark, where some universities have set up joint educational courses for doctors and chiropractors for the first three years. A chiropractor training in Norway is timely but implemented in scientific and medical research. Ten million. For increased research in muscle and skeletal disorders and mental health, a good start is made. Furthermore, we need to strengthen the health services provided by municipalities in the area of mental health, as reflected in the Stortinget in ours, and we look forward to the government's investigation of a stepping up of the first line of mental health services, with a focus on quality, prevention and interaction with specialist health services and, as we said, with a special priority for children and young people. In the case of mental health disorders, loss of association with the labour market would be an additional burden. And for those who fall out, the way back can be long. The left is therefore committed to improving interaction between municipalities and between Nav and the business community in the context of labour-oriented mastering and rehabilitation measures. I am pleased that we are in agreement with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, among others. strengthens the low-threshold provision at font houses for people who have or have suffered from mental illness so that they can experience mastery and be given the opportunity to try out in normal working life. It is also important to get Nav to use the font houses as a resource and an area for work-oriented rehabilitation. Russ and psychiatry were priority areas of the government's draft government budget, something for which the Left is pleased. Norway is at the top of European countries for overdose deaths. We therefore need new interventions in the care of drug users and a highly professional policy in terms of prevention, treatment, harm reduction and aftercare. The left is very pleased that we are now getting a strengthening of the ACT teams, which provides patients with serious mental health problems such as drug abuse and low level of function, with a comprehensive service offering with the types of help needed in several areas. Welfare technology is a technical tool that strengthens the individual’s ability to cope in everyday life despite illness or disability. There is a high potential for new solutions that can meet future needs for care. The Left believes that digital solutions can contribute to better well-being, including: by facilitating the everyday lives of chroniclers and residents. I am pleased that the Left has been able to establish a large national welfare technology research project specifically aimed at chroniclers and home dwellers, which will make everyday life easier for many. We're going to create the patient's healthcare. Then it is also important to create that service for children. Children who are relatives do a lot of important work to give children a language to explain to us adults what they are suffering from, and what they are struggling with. In the Inland Hospital, there is an important work to be done in collaboration with Children as a relative, the Rusmis users' Association of Interest and the Lillehammer High School – the media education there – in order to use visual channels to teach and teach children and to allow children to understand the challenges of the family and the environment. It is an important work that I am pleased that we have found money for, both in the year's budget and for next year's budget, in order to develop further. Then I am also pleased that we have found the means to do some pilot projects related to the provision of health and well-being for students. One of the challenges here is that the supply is differently funded around Norway. It is mainly left to the students to contribute to the local welfare and health service, but the municipalities have the legal responsibility. In some health enterprises, the health business contributes money. In some places, municipalities that have study places contribute. But the usual thing is that neither health companies nor municipalities contribute. The left believes that there is something unsolved in the students' own involvement here, and that student relationships can be good actors to operate a broader health service for the students. Then to the hospital. Capacity is important. Several people have discussed this in the previous article. We need to create a better capacity and ensure the necessary quality. As I said, the left is not so very concerned about who does the job, the most important thing for us is that it is quality, and that there is an option. But the structure is also part of the debate and also the organisation. The left is concerned about, as a result of the metropolitan process we have seen, the challenges of Oslo University Hospital. It is therefore important that we continue the debate on future organisation, even when we receive a national health and hospital plan in the next year to look at the particular hospital structure. The left does not want a large-scale centralisation of hospitals, for us it is important that we also use the funds to invest in medical-technological equipment and ensure a decentralised hospital structure. With the demography we're going into, with an ageing population that's not that mobile, it's important. Then we have to make sure that healthcare comes out to the population. Then there is also a natural specialization and development within surgery that makes it natural to centralize something planned surgery. With regard to Oslo in particular, the government of the Left has recently moved in to tear down the patient building at the Radium Hospital and build a new patient building there, establishing a proton center there. We believe that it is a very important job to get started, and that it is important that we now park the large-scale Campus Oslo investigation that has been going on, that we do not bother to spend a lot of money planning a mastodont that it will be impossible to realize. It's the patient's health care we're going to create, and we see in Oslo how successful the local hospitals we have there are – the Diakon home and Lovisenberg. We need a new local hospital in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2821	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2824	In 2013, an investigation was carried out that concluded that we need to use the capacity of the Judicial Genetics Centre in Tromsø, if we are to achieve the objective of more and faster DNA analyses for use in criminal justice. It is a separate proposal for a representative to be debated later today, and in the comments on the health budget, the Workers' Party calls for the Legal Genetics Centre to be the environment. 2 in Norway for such analyses. So it's that the left has openly supported this, but, as I understand it, will vote for the government's arrangement, which is that you want to put out such a bid to get more private, commercial actors. The left is very concerned about privacy. The management of human DNA requires the highest level of safety and competence. Can the representative, Kjeseth, see that the government's plans to bring more commercial actors into the work of DNA analyses have some privacy challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2831	I can't quite see that right now. Where we stand today, it's actually a privacy challenge as it is. We lack ICT systems that allow different actors in the public to talk to each other. We have to put that in place. This would be the case with a call for tenders and any private operators, which are also used today, as well as many foreign actors, that there must be a requirement for privacy. So we don't think of it as a very big challenge in that field. Capacity is important, and the environment in Tromsø today is also important to build on, that they can use DNA analyses to strengthen the professional basis of the environment there. We see no contradiction in that. But we see that the police have a more important and important role to play in working with DNA analyses in Norway. So we're curious to use the economy that's in the police force, also to strengthen that environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2840	The cooperation parties agreed in the budget agreement to allocate 30 million. kr extra for the development of welfare technology. The representative Ketil Kjenseth pointed out in the Questionnaire on 3 December that the government chose to distribute them via the County State, without the Left itself having outlined a better solution. How does the Left view the best distribution of these funds for projects in the care sector in Norway? And has the Left taken on board that care services in Norway are essentially municipal responsibility, which is largely followed up by the county board?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2845	My concern was that we should build a health bureaucracy at County, too, and I do not see that the county officials today have a special competence in welfare technology. I understand that the Right's intention and the Government's intention is that the money should come down to the municipalities. If the County Council is an effective channel for that, it's fine. We have, as the representative says, not proposed to make any changes to it. We've had an impact on a large national welfare technology project. Then it's important for us to make sure that we get knowledge and learning that makes many hundreds of small projects around the municipality of Norway do not make the same mistake. Getting knowledge about implementation and using technologies that exist is very important. When the national project comes into place, we have no great concern that the county councillors should not allocate properly to local projects in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2852	I register that the representative Kjeseth will have more research and development in hospitals, a talk about more capacity in hospitals, and that one would like a decentralised hospital structure. All this is very positive, but what's incomprehensible to me, is that the left is more right than the right and cuts in his hospital budget. In the left's alternative state budget, the hospital budget cuts 250 million. kr. Now it's like a cut of 250 million. kr will mean fewer therapists, less capacity and less research and development, so what is the logic behind the hospital cut for which the Left goes in?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2857	Firstly, the Left Party and the Center share the view that it is important to bet on public health prevention, spend more money on it and thus give more people a better life – the sooner, the better. As far as our priorities are concerned, unlike the Centre Party, we believe that it is possible to use the available capacity of non-profit and private actors a little more, thereby improving the efficiency of today's public hospitals, where we experience significant waiting lists and major challenges with actually finding out and getting an hour. I think the system needs a challenge from other actors to show that it is possible to do it in other ways. We have created some mastodonts that are struggling with using new technologies, especially ICT technology, and that means too much resources for bureaucracy and administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2866	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2870	Making a government budget is about prioritizing the most important thing. The government has failed in that. The government prioritizes tax cuts for those who need it the least, first. The executive power on behalf of the upper class is large, the space for action in all other areas is similarly limited. That is why we see that the government is not close to meeting the expectations of government parties themselves in health and care policy. SV prioritizes differently. We want to do what's most important first. That's why we're going to increase the bet on health, but we're going to distribute the health funds in a different way. All parties talk about prevention – in the SV alternative budget, prevention is the most important health measure. We have a shocking class distinction, a shocking social inequality in health in Norway. The social inequality in health is great, and the distinctions are created already in childhood. For every t-stop you move to the east here in Oslo, the average lifetime falls. It's about different careers, it's about living conditions, and it's about lifestyle and habits. The major challenge for the future is therefore to pursue a preventive policy that can balance these differences. Health policy can't just be about what we're going to do to people when they're going to hospital, it has to be much more about how we're going to avoid more people getting there. The most important welfare reform of the future is therefore the full-time school, according to SV. It will be a significant boost to public health. Children who go to school without food or rarely eat healthy risks developing significant health problems. Children who sit quietly and are rarely encouraged to engage in physical activity will easily become tomorrow’s patients with lifestyle diseases. Therefore, SV proposes to allocate some 900 million in its alternative budget. kr for free bread meal in school, for fruit and for physical activity in primary school from harvest. We want to label 395 million. kr for school health services and health stations. It's part of a stepping up to 1,500 new annual works during the period. This will mean that children who develop mental or physical illness can be caught early, seen by adults in their everyday school life in a completely different way from today. However, as the Nursing Association pointed out in the committee’s budget hearing, the government’s proposal for money for school health services is far too poor. Without earring, this money does not arrive at those for whom they are intended, and SV therefore suggests designating each crown. The little girl who goes to school without food is our responsibility. The little boy who labors mentally without anyone grasping it is our responsibility. The Nobel Prize winner in the economy James Heckman has calculated that the most profitable investment a society can make is the investment that makes the disadvantaged child a safe adult. It takes the consequences of that. We want to spend the big money in this health budget on the little people. Our commitment to children and public health is in stark contrast to the government's public health policy, perhaps best symbolized by the fact that at the same time as the money for fruit and green in school disappeared from the budget, money came to cheaper alcohol on duty-free into the budget. In the last few weeks and months, I have, and many others in Stortinget, received a flood of e-mails from patients and relatives, which shows that the reality of psychiatry is unfortunately different from the glare of development that the government has been busy drawing lately. Many of those who are sickest feel that the help is being built down. The dream unit in Bodø has gone down. The offer is now under threat to people suffering from anxiety at Eastmarka in Trondheim and the Russian and Psychiatric Post at UNN in Tromsø. The justification is not professional assessments, but economics. The government defends itself with its so-called golden rule, that growth within the drug field and psychiatry should be stronger than growth within somatics. But this rule isn't very golden when we look at how it's practiced. Firstly, it's about percentage growth, and secondly, it turns out that creative census helps health regions reach the target. Instead, we need to allocate more money directly to several treatment centres for drug treatment and mental health. It does SV in its alternate budget. While public health is one major challenge for the future, the other is to ensure equal access to good health services. The government wants to implement a system shift in our healthcare system with the combination of so-called free treatment options and the EU Patient Rights Directive. It implies accepting that health services are to be traded in a market, as if they were industrial products. SV is towards the expansion of a larger commercial sector in the Norwegian health care system and the reduction of Norwegian hospital budgets to finance private clinics abroad. Health isn't supposed to make money, it's supposed to make people. Care is care and not the store. What we see now is the beginning in a new way of prioritizing, where the patients who pay the most will be able to get to treatment first. SV would rather have a healthcare system where the patients with the greatest needs are to get out first. That is why we are opposed to the granting of free treatment. We'd rather spend the money on increased activity in public hospitals, so we're going to increase investment in our hospitals. We believe better organisation, investment in modern operating rooms and extended opening hours in community hospitals are the way to go to reduce waiting time. The NRK has recently documented unworthy circumstances in Norwegian care for the elderly. Undernourishment, illegal use of coercion and solitude affect some of our caring elderly. We all know that it is not the main picture of Norwegian care for the elderly, but one such example is too much. The main problem in care today is that there are too few health professionals and nurses at work. There will be too little time to deal with each one, there will be too much running and too much sick leave. For me, these women – for most of them are women – are the great heroes of the welfare state, and we need more of them. Increased basic staffing is the most important single approach for better care, and it can be achieved by municipalities. Municipalities that have had the courage to bet have felt that increased ground crew does not need to be expensive, because it can also lead to lower costs of sick leave and temporary employment. More time for the little talk, for the trip out or the quiet association that gives dignity and well-being, is no matter what the biggest gain. That is why we are proposing a pot to try to increase ground crews in several hospitals in our alternative budget. And most importantly, we are proposing a municipal economy that would enable the elderly to be cleaned up around the country. Still living approx. 2 000 nursing elderly in double rooms in Norwegian nursing homes. Some people do it because they want it, maybe a couple or two old friends. But for those who don't want it, it's an unacceptable situation. Also in the final phase of life, it is a social task to provide dignity and well-being for the individual. Most municipalities have solved this task, and it is therefore reasonable to demand that the regrettators also do so. The government has messed up into a discount scheme that turns out to be a failure. On questions from SV, the Ministry has confirmed that a municipality can actually save money on investing in double rooms with the government’s arrangements – a small amount of money, but the idea of the proposal was quite the opposite. The discount scheme is defective and has to be abolished. What can speed up the winding-up of the last coercive associations in Norwegian care for the elderly is a law ban, combined with sanctions for those who break it. It suggests SV today. It is also time to stop the stopwatches in home services around the country. In Copenhagen, a trust reform that gives care to manage the working day without stopwatches has been shown to give older people a much better offer. Then the home nurse can spend a little extra time with Mrs. Hansen on the day she is lonely and afraid, and rather a little shorter time with Mr. Olsen on the day he has a surplus. It will be a care based on human needs, rather than narrow targets and form. SV therefore proposes that local trust reforms be developed in care and a system for older people with high care needs to be determined by the municipality over half an hour each week. The SV's alternative budget is a budget for public health, for Community solutions and for more time and trust in care. With that, I take up the suggestions that SV is only about in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2902	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2905	In this budget, we see that the ideological backbone of SV is getting back into place, and inequalities between the red-green parts are becoming more visible. It looks like it's been good to get out of the government offices, and you're starting to think about something new. But in one area, I have to say that the SV ideology worries me. I accept that SV is against the EU, but that the party will refuse Norwegian patients the possibility of hospital treatment abroad, I think it is bad. Some small patient groups in Norway feel that their services are not good enough. There may be only one professional community in Norway, and they will be able to take very great advantage of the opportunity to use foreign trade unions to improve their health. This is about important patient rights for a few vulnerable patient groups, who are entitled to treatment and who will receive it at the same cost abroad as at home. Can the representative Lyssbakken explain to me why it is so important for SV to stick joints in the wheels of these patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2912	There is today – and it is SV’s policy that it should be – an opportunity to make use of services abroad when needed. The problem with the Patient Rights Directive as it is now proposed to be implemented by the government is both that the prior authorisation system proposed by the previous government, which would give better control of this process, has been abolished and that we have received clear notification from the government that ESA seems to be disapprove of the way it was planned to be carried out. For us, it shows that we are about to have a health market in Europe that makes us fear of both a large-scale expansion of commercial health care, the lack of ability to control where the money will go in the health care system of the future, and a thinking around health as a product that we believe will make the wallet say more in the future and patients' needs less. In addition, I am a little surprised that the government parties take the problem of antibiotic resistance so little seriously in connection with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2917	During eight years with the red-green government, we saw that the two-part division of the health care system intensified. More and more people paid off because they did not want to wait for treatment from the public. Therefore, in order to reduce the queues in the public health sector, the Right-wing Party Government introduces free treatment choices. It should ensure that patients arrive more quickly at the right place of treatment. In the SV alternative state budget, the lot will replace free treatment choices with increased activity in public hospitals. That's why my question becomes to the representative Lysbakken: Does he want the division we saw in the health care system under the red-green government, where they bought themselves out of the health system with the thickest wallet, to continue? Does the representative think it is right that, in order to use his own linguistic jargon, better health care should be provided for those who already have the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2926	I think it's brave every time the bourgeois parties talk about this with two division, because it reminds me of what they did last time the right side had power. So the right-hand side introduced tax deductions for private health insurance, which we abolished when we came to power. And then you've pretended in retrospect that you're very concerned that more and more people have received private health insurance. So we know that Norwegian citizens are very small even drawing private insurance, that's what employers do. I think it reflects that most people feel little need for it. Free treatment choices do not increase the capacity of the Norwegian healthcare system. The free choice of treatment involves another way of prioritising the resources we already have. Then we believe that it will lead to a way of giving priority to those patients who are profitable in commercial clinics, in a favourable position, and those who are not, in an unfavourable position, and we believe that this is an unfair and inappropriate way of giving priority to health crowns.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2935	First of all, I would like to commend SV for a budget that contains exciting estimates. In the case of early efforts and the effort SV will put in, Left shares much of SV's vision. They call it all-day school. When you have to have money for bread, for fruit and vegetables and for physical activity and divide it by three, you are left with approx. 300 million. kr for physical activity. There will be about three minutes of physical activity during a school day for one student. There is not much, and it says something about how much money is going on. But my question is now – because we have many unskilled teachers in Norwegian school, and we are struggling to recruit for teacher training – are the teachers now going to become health workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2944	It probably takes more than three minutes of physical activity, but the representative is right that we have to split up the money in a smart way and start somewhere. What we have proposed in our budget is to start from 5 to 10. class in primary school from the autumn of. The full-year effect of extending this to half an hour throughout primary school will, of course, be greater. The representative, Kjeseth, is also right in saying that the most important restriction on the introduction of full-time school is not money, it's people. That's why this offer can only be built up at the rate we get more people. This will mean a need for more teachers, so we are proposing a resource standard. But it will also provide an opportunity to get more other occupational groups into school, and we believe that this is necessary. However, the extension of hours related to both physical activity and homework, as we propose, should be under the guidance of professionally qualified personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2951	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e2954	The government's vision is to create the patient's healthcare. We want to move power – from the system to the patients. We want to spread power – and use all good forces. We create mastery – by renewing, simplifying and improving. We're doing great. The budget that we are discussing today is probably taking us one step in the right direction. We are still busy not only talking about everything that is good in Norwegian healthcare, but also doing something about what needs to be better. Transparency about both what is good and what is not good is necessary if we are to improve services and build confidence in the work we do. – For example, we have a health service that is often very good at survival, but less good at experience. Continued waiting too many unnecessary time for absolutely necessary treatment. Many elderly and caregivers do not receive sufficient services, and there is still a need to raise people with drug problems and mental challenges. For this reason, the government has highlighted three important objectives: Firstly, we need to reduce unnecessary waiting for patients. Next year, the budget for patient treatment is growing by nearly 2 billion. kr. It gives a high activity growth compared to previous years. The government has facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment in its first two budgets compared to what the red-greens were adopted through their eight. We'll give more money to the hospitals. It is invested in construction, equipment and modern ICT. We strengthen the patient's rights and use all good forces. We know that the available capacity has been unused, while patients have been waiting for treatment. Next year, the introduction of free treatment options begins. We're doing three important steps: We'll give you 150 million. NOK to this. Hospitals shall increase their purchases of services from private individuals through tenders. We remove the activity stack in the public hospitals that provide room to drive more efficiently and treat more patients. It's listening to what patients tell us. – As addicts who tell about long waiting times when the motivation for treatment is there, and the places that are only available when the motivation is gone. It's putting the patient in the center of what we're doing. We move power – from the system to the patient. Secondly, increasing capacity and improving quality in the care sector. It's positive that we get older, who live several healthy years. We're going to arrange for them to have the opportunity to live an active life. However – we need to provide good care services and health care facilities when the need arises. The expansion has not been good enough. Overall, the competence of services is too low. The media coverage of the last few weeks has reminded us of what we have known for a long time, and with which too long has not done enough. For many people, the situation in the care services is not worth enough. No one can avoid being affected by stories about employees who cry when they leave the watch and the elderly who do not receive the services they need. We have been clear on one thing that needs to be done if we are to succeed better with this: the state needs to take greater responsibility for both expansion and empowerment in this municipal service. We already see the results of new policies. This year, the grant share of the country in the development of care facilities in the municipalities has increased. The government is now taking half the bill. By 31 October, municipalities had already applied for 500 more grant commitments than in the whole of 2013. A framework of 2500 units in 2015 facilitates further capacity expansion and renovation. The government will also investigate a state funding effort in care. There must not only be more vacant rooms; we also need more people to do the jobs. Patients and users with need for care often have diseases and health problems that require advanced skills to be cared for. There is talk about the need for warm hands that is important and also quite correct. However, municipal care employees need to have more than warm hands. They also need to have very wise heads. Therefore, we focus more on competence in services. We are now developing a new dementia plan in which we cooperate with the National Association for Public Health and involve people with dementia in the preparation of the plan. Thirdly, we need to give priority to better treatment and prevention in the field of mental health and drugs. For a long time, those struggling with alcohol and mental health problems have not been given sufficient priority. The offer has been too poor, the waiting times too long, the freedom of choice too small, and prevention has not been good enough. Politics has consequences. When the previous government asked the hospitals to stop giving priority to drugs and mental health, it had consequences for patients. We saw that in the SAMDATA report for 2013. One of the first things we did when we came into government was to reintroduce the golden rule that health regions should give priority to the field of drugs and mental health. We have asked them to buy more services of ideal and private to these groups and give them resources to do so. Free treatment options are first introduced for people with drug dependence and mental health challenges. But too many people get too sick before they get help – like the young girl who doesn't know where to turn when she notices that the heavy thoughts are needed – because there's a good enough offer in the municipalities, because the school health service is not well enough available because the municipalities lack psychological services. That is why we have to bet on the municipal services in particular. The municipalities get 200 million. Dr more for work on alcohol and mental health. Half is earmarked for the first. This year we reintroduced the earmarking of funds to the same thing as the previous government removed. Health and school health services are significantly strengthened this year and next year through the municipalities – 180 million. Last year, 270 million. kr in the year's draft budget. The consensus with the Left and Christian People's Party will provide a further boost for people with drug problems and mental health problems in 2015. Next year, the government will come with an escalating plan on the drug field, which will pay particular attention to municipal services. There's a lot of mess for those who are struggling with drugs and mental health challenges. The budget for next year won't solve this, but it definitely shows that we're on the right track. In the 2015 budget, we are also strengthening public health policy. Next year, a new public health report is coming. Three main initiatives in it will be to integrate mental health into public health work, to focus on active ageing and to facilitate healthier choices. Some of the most important public health work taking place is outside the health sector. “School policy that prevents apostasy, the open-air policy that lets us be active, the cycle paths that make us more active, the cultural policy that strengthens sport. The budget does not just show that the government is putting health on and giving priority to health. It also shows that we are in the process of reforming the patient’s healthcare system, which is essential. Money alone is not the answer. We also have to show willingness to change and think again if we're going to get better. We need to renew, we need to simplify, and we need to improve. Next year, we will introduce standardised package sequences within 27 cancer areas. It shall provide a faster diagnosis and treatment and not least a better response to healthcare for patients who are suspected of cancer or who have cancer. Patients should be well informed about the treatment, release medically unfounded waiting and not as often become wasteballs in the system as they experience today. Too many patients experience what Per Fugelli has called ‘single-use’ doctors and feel uncertain about what is the next step in treatment. The government has consulted a proposal that gives serious ill rights to a contact doctor in order not to deal with too many doctors and unclear information. These two measures are not primarily about budgets; they are simply about making a choice to put the patient in the centre. It does this government in all the work we do. The budget for next year shows that it is willing to follow the objectives we have: We strengthen the economy of hospitals, facilitate too high growth in patient treatment, and introduce free treatment options to reduce unnecessary waiting for patients. We allow the state to take greater responsibility for expanding the capacity and competence of care services to ensure that municipalities can provide good quality services when people need them. We give priority to the field of drugs and mental health in both specialist and community health services because patients in these groups have for a long time experienced too little provision. Patients' rights are strengthened. Patients' freedom of choice is extended. We're creating the patient's healthcare today to provide everyone with prompt treatment, good care and secure services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3046	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3050	In several articles, «Daggens Medisin» has written about a very special case, where a private commercial operator travels northwards to Finnmark, treats a number of mentally ill patients at high hourly rates, with an unusually intense treatment schedule and with a lack of interaction with the public health system in the patient’s neighbourhood. It is HELFO who has concluded and approved the agreement made in 2012 in the context of a breach of time-limits. The Minister of Health has previously been asked in Stortinget about what he will do in this matter. He then gave the following answer: Patients are the seafarers who decide. On the cost picture, he says: the market situation affects the competitive situation and thus the hourly price. My question, to which I would like specific answers, is this: Is the Minister of Health still satisfied with what is happening in this matter? And if he is, does he think the case in Finnmark serves as an example of the government's reform of prestige free of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3059	The agreement of the representative was concluded by HELFO under the previous government. It is also in the system that the Workers' Party is calling for us to have more of it. We need to introduce free treatment choices. This will mean that we put prices below what is usual tender prices that one achieves in this way. Thus, one avoids the kind of situations described here from Finnmark. That is one of the reasons why, in the draft consultation in this area, I have adjusted the proposal for the free choice of treatment to have a tougher pricing policy for private operators, while the Labour Party budget proposal provides for more of the system we see in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3066	Governments are concerned with good ICT solutions and using ICT as a tool to create patient health services. The budget also shows that one is concerned about it, but one of the main news today is that the journal systems are not working as we thought. It is an important tool for achieving the patient’s health care. Patient information comes on the wrong side or on the wrong side of the patient. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take some national action for ICT solutions in the future, so that it will not be up to each individual health business or individual to choose ICT solutions, and so that we can tackle ICT challenges together with welfare technology and hospital treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3073	The answer to that is yes. That is why, once I became Minister of Health, I ordered three reports describing the challenge picture in this area, and that is in line with what was later presented in the National Audit Office's report, which has been posted on TV2 now. This is also why we set up National Health ICT, which is located in Bergen, this year, to ensure a stronger national governance of the introduction of new ICT by health regions. We now have a full review of the entire management system in the ICT sector, including: also the management system of the Health Directorate. One of the main points of this is getting involved, among other things. the systems of local authorities. The change in the law adopted by the Stortinget before the summer was a very important step towards actually creating the legal framework in order to realise this, because now it is also possible that information can follow the patient through the healthcare system. So we're creating a national governance system for this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3080	I listen carefully when the Council of State speaks, and in last year's debate was not public health or prevention referred to by a sentence. So I want to congratulate the Council of State, because it was part of this year's article. That's what I thought was positive. The Council of State says that the government prioritizes public health action, but I only come up with measures that the government has cut: they have cut fruit and vegetables, the tobacco allowance scheme and the staffing requirement for solarium. They have increased tax-free quotas for alcohol, liberalised opening hours and made proposals to liberalise alcohol advertising, etc. They're going to strengthen the school services, but it's not primary prevention, so I'm going to ask the Council of State: has the government made one proposal before primary prevention in the year that's gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3089	I believe that in the state budget that the Stortinget is now discussing, there is a considerable commitment to public health, which is reinforced in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's in creating a good school that has a high quality, because failing to succeed in school and having a high school drop-out is one of the most important public health challenges we have. There is a strengthening of the quality of kindergartens, which is a significant public health effort. There is a strengthening of outdoor activities. Now we're going into the year of open-air life. There is a significant commitment to sport, which is also important in public health work. There is a strengthening of the development of bicycle and pedestrian paths, which are important in public health work. And if one is going to take it extra far, I can also say that it's a strengthening of the development of forest paths and forest roads, for which the Center Party is also very much in favour. Few roads are used as much for walking, jogging and cycling as they do. So there's a lot of good public health policy in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3106	We share a commitment to those who are struggling with mental health challenges. In this connection, I have asked the Council of State a written question about the proposed cut in mental health in the Health Executive. In the response of the Council of State, there has been an increase in activity in the field of mental health in 2014, linked to the offer both for children and young people and for adults. However, the 2014 accounting figures show that the economic growth of somatic products is 7 p.m. and that it in mental health is 1 to 1.5 p.m. The question is whether the Council of State is concerned about these underlying growth factors related to wages, technical equipment, construction and everything that comes with somaticness and that the costs flow from the mentally ill patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3113	There was a reason why the new government reintroduced the golden rule. It was just because the growth forces relative to somatics are so much stronger. When we reintroduced the golden rule, it was because we thought a strong control signal was needed. I had no illusions that it would be able to reverse development in the first few months alone, but we still see positive changes. But I'm going to follow this rule up to the health regions very clearly, and so do I in the meetings that I have with them. I'm sure some of the regions are going to make it. Others are not going to make it. In the specific matter raised by the representative, Health Vest has assured me that they will also ensure that the health company Health led the follow-up to the steering signal that comes, the mission document, which comes from me in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3118	It would have been tempting to enter into a debate on forest roads, but I'll leave it for now. I would like to ask the Council of State about the discount scheme relating to double rooms. We have asked the department about this and were told that the municipalities, with this scheme, can actually save little money – not much – but a small amount of money per year to invest in double rooms rather than single rooms. I don't think anyone is going to do it for that reason, but I thought the purpose of the discount scheme was the opposite, that it would be more attractive to choose single room solutions for municipalities. When we also know that, among other things: The Pensioners' Association and many older people regard this scheme as a form of legitimisation by the government of involuntary double rooms, we must be able to sum up that scheme as a failure. My question to the Minister of Health is whether he wants to abolish the discount scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3123	The answer to SV in that case shows how lucrative it was for the municipalities to establish double rooms under the previous government. It has now become considerably less lucrative since we have dragged in half the compensation for it. It has been important to motivate municipalities to have fewer double rooms, but we also think that if you are placed on double rooms against your will – and we know that some older people are getting – it is completely unreasonable that you have to pay such a large proportion of your pension, and as much as those who get a single room. The purpose here is both to make it less economically attractive for municipalities to use double rooms, we have achieved that, and at the same time to give a small compensation to those who, against their will, are in double rooms. I think that is simply about justice. I believe that if the representative Lysbakken had been placed in a hotel room with a person he did not know, he would have refused to pay the bill. He would have good reason for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3130	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3134	The health budget we are debating today is well suited to illustrate the difference between the government's health policy and the Labour Party's policy in this area. We see clearly how the post office by post is skewed in the government's arrangements. And it's no wonder, when you choose to give so large tax credits to the richest. This means that in the health field we see a much lower growth for hospitals than what is needed, and what the government parties promised before the elections, as well as a lower investment in public health and communities in disputing. Nevertheless – let me include what I think is positive with the government's arrangements. It is good to roll out a broad standardised course of patients for cancer treatment, according to the model of so-called package sequence. Such treatment processes were also reflected in the red-green government's cancer strategy from 2013, and the University Hospital Nord-Norway has tested such pathways from 2010 for several cancers, with good results. I think it is good that the fixed doctors should now be included in the package. We know that there is often a lack of good interaction between the doctors and the hospitals. But I hope that the Minister of Health is also clear in his order to the many private X-ray institutes that have an agreement with health companies, who like to push publicly referred patients into the waiting period of several weeks, while those who can put a not insignificant proportion of them on the table get a place the next day. There must be a clear and clear order from health businesses to private actors, and it is the responsibility of the Minister of Health to point this out in his governance dialogue with regional health businesses. Otherwise, I think that the package sequences can quickly become a real flop. But I think the Minister of Health is serious when he says he wants to create the patient's healthcare. In fact, I think it is getting a little small and above all pompous when he claims that he is the first and only minister of health in Norway who has put the patient in focus. Such self-announcements tend to be both swollen and slightly unruly. But now leave it, we can do it again another time. Worse still, many of the instruments proposed by the Minister of Health do not support the ambition of the patient’s healthcare. I have already mentioned the poor hospital economy, which is not dimensioned by the challenges of hospitals. In addition, the government does not address the health inequalities we, despite good welfare services, still have in Norway. It is not least about investing in the local economy and in good public health measures. That is why the Workers' Party has invested more money in its alternative budget to the municipalities than the government has, with earmarked funds for health stations and school health services. In addition to this, we have a number of measures for health promotion and prevention activities, including the reintroduction of school fruit and start-up products for physical activity at school, which are also mentioned from this pulpit before. Then I have to comment on the government's prestige reform, so-called free treatment choice. So to say the whole of Health Norway warns against this reform. Yes, even the Ministry of Health has critical comments. To all intents and purposes, the Minister of Health has planned that this should be rolled out for the most vulnerable patients — in the field of drugs and psychiatry. In this regard, the Psychologists' hearing opinion is very interesting. The association is concerned that the mental health and drug proposal may impede the desired professional development and reduce the quality of the services provided to patients. At the same time, it could make good interaction difficult, weaken financial management and lead to increased red tape. Good professional services adapted to individual needs depend on simultaneous contributions and simultaneous efforts and close follow-up from local authorities as well as from several actors and services. Therefore, the Psychologists' association, like most other hearing bodies, warns that free treatment options will impair the quality of treatment. Just this with simultaneous efforts and simultaneous contributions is what is missing in the case of Finnmark, as I mentioned, and the Psychologists' Association therefore believes that this can also be seen here as a free treatment option. Otherwise, I would like to tell the Minister of Health that if he intends to bring down HELFO, he should say so. If not, he should go through the legislation to ensure that it is good enough, and he will have support for it from the Workers' Party. I think the matter of free treatment shows that the Minister of Health's desire to create the patient's health system is trodden by the government's almost coercive privatisation ideology, where you don't listen at all, either to professional objections or to common sense. The Labour Party has made a clear choice. We want to build the public health system even stronger, with good priorities and a fair distribution of resources. We will cooperate with good private actors as a complement, both non-profit and commercial, based on clear agreements, defined needs and policy decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3155	There is a great deal to do in the Norwegian health system, and today patients are being treated for diseases that could not be treated a few years ago, or the treatment simply did not come about. Medical development and the development of new operating methods take place at a rapid pace. This is possible thanks to those who work in the health care system, which I think has arrived a little too little here today. They're the scientists, and they're the ones who dare to think new. Today, many become healthy after a cancer diagnosis, and more patients are getting better quality of life by changing shoulder joints, hip replacements and surgery for gray tails, and with proper treatment and good follow-up, patients with drug problems become drug-free. For the government, it is an objective that more people should take part in this development. Too many people are waiting for treatment. The specialist healthcare service must be further developed in order to strengthen the patient’s rights and to treat more people. We need to focus more on the patient's values, the patient's needs and the patient's preferences. It's called putting the patient in the center, not the systems. It's not pompous, it's actually absolutely necessary. We want to give hospitals increased appropriations, the possibility of leasing equipment, use the free capacity of private people and give priority to those who have been sitting at the bottom of the health policy table. We want hospitals to be able to treat more people, it's the public that's the carrier. It has therefore been added to facilitate the growth of activity in hospitals. There has been a higher activity growth in two budget years with the Right and the Advance Party in government than the red-greens provided for in their period. There are two years left, and I want to say that 2014 was the year with the highest budget growth of hospitals ever. The government will make more efforts to increase the activity in hospitals and bring down cows. Hospitals are given greater flexibility and can now enter into leases of up to 100 million. kr for medical and technical equipment. You go away from the strict activity management, and the activity stack is removed. Therefore, hospitals may increase treatment if the economy and capacity so permit. It also facilitates the increased treatment of patients by increasing input-driven funding from 40 pst. to 50 pst. Treating more patients should be worthwhile. We want to use all the capacity in Health-Norway and therefore open up so that ideal and private hospitals can treat several patients for public account. This is how we want to dampen up to the two-part health care system that grew up under the red-green regime – like it or not. We've started seeing results, and there's 10,000 fewer waiting. Patients who are struggling with drug problems and mental disorders are given priority by the government. In order to reduce cows, we want more adapted treatment, and we want to introduce the reform of free treatment options. Nor is it a reform of prestige; it is a necessary reform. We want to give patients more power and mobilise to the capacity of both public and private. We also want to focus cancer. The 2013 Annual Report of the Register of Cancer stated that it is approx. 30,000 cancer cases each year. It was in 2011, and I'm sure these numbers are about the same for 2012 and 2013. Getting a cancer diagnosis is quite scary – not only for the person who gets it, but also for the relatives. About 10,000 die annually from cancer. There is therefore a great need to standardise and systematise treatment. It is great that the government has put this high on the agenda. Bent Höie has entrusted the Health Directorate with the task of preparing package courses, or treatment courses, for cancer and diagnostic supervisors for the fixed doctors. For each cancer cycle, the number of calendar days the different parts of the course should be defined. It shall eliminate uncertainty and uncertainty as to expectation. Breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, thick and rectal cancer start in 2015. As in previous years, it is also in the budget provided that certain measures are also covered under the proposed framework. This has been criticised by the Workers' Party, at the latest in the Questionnaire. But there's nothing new, so did the government of Stoltenberg in their budgets – if they remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3174	We are adopting a very good health budget today. I am proud of the work carried out by the Progress Party and the Right in the few months we have been in government. For too many years, we have witnessed a system that has overestimated the needs of patients and has not taken into account their experience. Now we have a government that, through this health budget, shows that people are more important than systems. This government has delivered more on its first two budgets than the red-green government has managed in eight years in terms of patient treatment, to the joy of thousands of users, patients and relatives throughout the country. Today, our elderly people have struggled to benefit, take for granted, and are very proud of. A welfare society, a safe work1iv and good health care for all have been developed through generations. Our older ones deserve an old age of dignity, security and care. Unfortunately, not everyone can stay healthy in their older days: today more than 70,000 people have dementia, and more than 250,000 people are related to people with dementia. The number of dementias is increasing dramatically. We have to prepare for this group of people to get bigger. We have to make sure that we have the capacity to give them the security and care they deserve. Daycare provides meaning and good experiences for individuals, relief for relatives and can help postpone institution placement. Therefore, on behalf of patients, users and relatives, I am pleased that the government has committed 62 million. SEK to 1,070 new day activities places for residents with dementia. Daily services help to meet the desire of many older people to stay at home for as long as possible. But at some point, many people with dementia will need a health home for their own and their relatives' safety. We cannot leave all this responsibility to the municipalities. Therefore, the state now takes half the bill when the municipalities build lucky day care centers. This gives municipalities a clear incentive to expand their capacity. Already now we see results of the government's investment. As of 31 October of this year, applications were granted for 500 more lucky days' care places than for the whole of last year. It is expected that we will be able to achieve our goal of increasing the construction rate in the care of the elderly. This shows that political will means results. We're going to keep showing. This budget provides funds for a further 2,500 lucky day care places in municipalities in 2015. Many family members feel a relief when their loved one gets a place in a nursing home. Children often have a responsibility to care for their parents, and even if many experience it financially and safely, it can also be a burden. Care services shall be of good quality and contribute to a worthwhile and rewarding everyday life. Older people with dementia need freedom and participation. Unfortunately, we see examples in our care for elderly people who are not acceptable or worthy, and there are too many variations from municipality to municipality. The quality of our older people’s services should not depend on the municipality in which they live. A lack of competence in care services is important in order to improve the quality of care for the elderly. That is why I am pleased that the government has started the Competence Plan for 2020 to ensure the right competence in care services. Our elders will experience dignity, security and care. The focus on systems and socialist principles is away from government agencies, and it marks patients and users across the country. The party of progress does not accept waiting lists in hospitals, and after one year in government, we have laid the groundwork for more elderly people to get the help they need when they need it. We're building more, we're raising quality through targeted allocations, and we're shaping a commitment to competence. We're doing a great job of creating the patient's health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3206	On the right, they agreed to their rhetoric about new ideas and better solutions at the elections last year – it was with the rhetoric. The solutions presented in welfare policy, including health policy, are neither new nor better — these include: in the field of public health policy. To make people healthier and at the same time save society from heavy repair costs, a new, better and stronger public health policy is needed. That's what the Workers' Party wants. A good public health policy is about what you do for example. diet and physical activity in school, kindergarten and school health services, and how to facilitate organised sport and outdoor life. Prevention and early intervention are essential. That's why we in the Workers' Party want to reintroduce fruit and green into school – because we know it's positive in terms of health and learning. We will allocate funds to the school health service to make sure that the resources go to this and nothing else. We also want to spend more money on physical activity in school because we know that many children and young people are too little in motion and activity. In addition, we will give priority to an additional lift for sports facilities and outdoor activities. When we know how important it is to bet on good public health, it is especially that the government is more concerned that people who don't use tax-free quotas for tobacco will have to trade it into more tax-free beer, raisin or wine. At the same time, free fruit and greenery are removed in the schools. This is bad public health policy and a strange priority. Some people — including children, young people and adults — have specific health, care and follow-up needs. This is often to be done by many actors, and the relatives are often worn out in the fight against public utility. Of course it shouldn't be like that. An important tool to coordinate, streamline and facilitate the work of users and relatives is well-functioning coordinators in municipalities. Although this is a statutory task clearly defined in the municipal health and care services law, it is very variable from municipality to municipality how it works. It is therefore disappointing that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left do not support the Workers' Party's, SV and the Centre's proposal to strengthen the coordinator functions of municipalities for users with high needs and their families in order to ensure close and coordinated follow-up. The government gets a lot of well-earned rice to get Norway in the wrong direction. It is therefore nice to be able to give some praise to this article. The Labour Party supports part of what came as a result of the budgetary agreement. I'll draw out two of these: Together, the need is an important lowthreshold option for, among others: people with drug problems. This project is run by IOGT in cooperation with municipalities, industry, organisations and volunteers in several locations in Norway. We are pleased that this important measure will increase the budget allocation by 2 million. kr beyond the level of the day. The second issue is, as many have experienced today, the priority of palliative treatment, including the support of the organisation Yes to relief unit and care for children, JLOB. It is important that this organisation be given the opportunity to further develop its work, not least as regards the transfer of competences to the primary and specialist health services. Nothing is more important than the best possible offer to dying children and young people and their relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3232	The government creates the patient’s healthcare with increased efforts to prevent, speed up treatment and improve rehabilitation. We want to cooperate with all the good forces to provide good health care, and it is already provided in several areas, especially in the areas of drugs and mental health. One of the first things we did when we joined the government was to put in place measures to raise people with drug problems and mental health problems in the health sector. We reintroduced the golden rule that health businesses should give priority to drugs and mental health, a rule that the red-greens had removed. Unfortunately, under the red-green government the queues for these patient groups grew. For ideological reasons, the vacancies of private operators remained unused. The government will have a change of pace in health policy. We want to put the patient in front of the system. The need for new solutions is therefore required. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are doing well to strengthen the social security network around people with drug problems and mental health problems. It is also nice to be able to read that in a rousing recent study, ‘Stallege’s assessment of district psychiatric centres’, the district psychiatric centres in Health Mid-Norway provide the best scores, compared to the rest of the country. This gives good signals that the reintroduction of the golden rule works. In the study, determined personnel, epicrisis, waiting time, guidance, acute situations, competence and referrals were evaluated. In six of the seven areas, the DPS in Health Mid-Norway is cutting the highest, with top competence. The lowest score was given by references. The study shows a positive development, but there is room for improvement. I expect this from the government's strong lead towards health companies and free treatment choices to help. I have now shown the government's increased commitment to the treatment of drug problems and mental health problems in health businesses and the organisation of government for increased rehabilitation, with greater diversity and free treatment options. The government's commitment to prevention in the field of drugs and mental health started already on accession in the autumn of 2013, when we reversed the commitment to mental health in school, an action that the red-greens had removed. Preventive health for children and young people is a high priority of the government and is strengthened in both budgets by increasing efforts in the areas of drugs, mental health, health care and school health. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left contributed to the further strengthening of health and school health services. That it is now granted 270 million. kr in 2015, may involve around 400-450 new annual works, depending on the profession. This is in addition to the increase in the current year's budget of 180 million. kr. In the 2013 budget, the red-green earrings removed over 300 million. kr for municipal work. These funds reinstated the government for the current year, and we increase the 2015 allocation to over 450 million. kr, all municipal work. This increase underlines the government's clear commitment to drug addiction and mental health, an increase that was reinforced in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We believe that municipalities should establish cooperation with voluntary and non-profit actors in the field of drug and mental health to a greater extent than at present. I am therefore pleased that grants to non-governmental organisations in the field of drugs and mental health were increased by 30 million. kr as a result of the agreement. The government will increase its commitment to preventive health. We will promote a public health report and a specific youth health strategy, both of which will be important in the prevention work and to get more young people from social security to work. In addition, the notified primary health notification and drug escalation plan will help to strengthen this important work in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3251	I first wanted to say that I think it is basically a good health budget, which is based on a good health policy that has been in place for many years. But I have to be honest here and say, like very many others, that it doesn't exactly match the expectations that especially the Right made during the election campaign. At least then it was quite clear that hospitals should be strengthened, and there would be a much more offensive health policy in the municipalities as well. What we're recording now is that many hospitals are struggling with the economy and making ends meet. I have had contact with Health Bergen, which is the closest for me. They include: assumed all responsibility for LAR without being compensated for by one penny – it only enters the large bag – so they have budgeted for 40 million. kr only for the LAR bit. The Labour Party chooses to strengthen both the hospital budgets and not least the municipal economy because we want to stand by the election promises we gave during the election campaign, and because we see the challenges we face in terms of health. We also see that health is one of the main sources of social inequality. That is why, after the various recordings and the debate we have had – at least in the comment exchange we have had in the committee – we have certainly wanted to focus more on early interventions, on prevention and, not least, on targeting children and young people. We believe that it is one of the most important social investments we can make. Good urban economy is crucial to investing in good kindergartens. We have received feedback when we have traveled around the municipalities, not least in the Right Municipalities, that kindergartens may be one of the most important prevention measures, but also food in school, more physical activity, wide-ranging and low-threshold services such as health centres and school health services that take all. New figures from the KS show that tax revenue entering the municipalities is expected to be 2.8 billion. kr lower than budgeted. The local economy seems to be even worse than the local governments around the country add up when they have their municipal government meetings at these times. While the government prioritises tax relief, the Labour Party prioritises investment in the future for children and young people. I also heard that the Minister of Health in particular was busy moving power. The interaction reform was just such a move to shift power between the specialist health service and the primary health service to facilitate good health services for people who have challenges in their everyday lives. Then you have to use economy as one of the strongest incentives to just get a twist. It is therefore surprising to the Workers' Party that in such a short time the government chooses to use its power of action to exempt municipalities from co-financing. We know it wasn't 100 pst. successful, but there is a work going on to see also how we could fix it. So why remove it instead of putting measures in place to correct it, just to try to achieve a better balance between the primary health service and the specialist health service. Then I am very happy to hear that both the committee leader and the representative of the Christian People's Party are offering music therapy. There is an area I have great faith in – thinking about new things and giving new opportunities can help to further develop the offer especially to vulnerable patients in the field of drug treatment and in psychiatry, as we have received feedback that it is particularly successful. Finally, I want to bring forward welfare technology. We regret that we are snipping in and want only security packages, and that we are not afraid to have a little more ambition to adjust the measures to see how they can be used to increase user involvement, as the two municipalities that have come the farthest, Lindås and Lista, have done. There we may need national coordination as well as delegating it down to County.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3274	An excellent investment in the health services of the Nordics. Never has a budget seized the time we've been in, so well. A strong and coordinated effort on data and ICT in hospitals. Modernization is in full swing. Education has never been safer in Norway — several hundred new turns. – This could have been headlines early in October 2014. Instead, we have received the government's main bet as a headline in the country's newspapers: Tax routes to Norway's 1-pst.-club: the richest. We have been able to read that there are several reasons why the headlines have been taxed to Norway’s richest. There have been malicious journalists, there have been poor media work from the departments and from the party groups. But my personal favorite – it is also the Prime Minister's and the Minister of Finance's favorite – is that people have misunderstood. In the last round from the government, after they have gone a few rounds with the collaboration parties, we got both in plastic bags and in sacks. The bags on the state budget bear the mark that there are big words and hidden cuts. And we two, President, we know that what they need, those who have waited the longest for help, are help and treatment, not empty words or tricking with budget lines. That is why I have to agree with those who say that there has been a change of pace in health policy and in the management of this country. It's been like replacing a two-stroke engine with a four-stroke: it's half speed. The Labour Party therefore proposes to increase the rate significantly in its alternative state budget. We give the hospitals room for action to help more people who are struggling and who have met the wall. We want to expand people most of their health care and have offers of high quality. That's why we're offering an overall alternative from the Workers' Party – a promise. It's a promise to the Norwegian people that we want something different with Norway than the Right and Advance Party will. The Labour Party wants Norway to be at its very best, where we develop the offer for each through a strong community. We can do that by having several clinical trials in Norwegian hospitals, by recruiting several doctors in turn positions. With hard work, we need to build expertise and more Center of Excellence, as it is called in good Norwegian. We should never be satisfied before we can offer the best treatment available to all in Norway. More shall survive cancer, and the efforts of relatives in the course of the disease to their immediate loved ones shall be more valued and taken care of by relatives. The solutions to our challenges, at Norway’s challenges, are not tax cuts to 1 p.m. club in Norway. The solutions are no less money for hospitals if we want fewer corridors. The single-price financing increases with the Right-wing Party Government. The requirement to return money to the Ministry of Health instead of to the patient is increasing after the parties have been negotiating. That is why it is with great interest that we, as the real opposition, follow what the Right Party and the Progress Party are actually adding to the patient's health system, because the large budget change of the civil parties in the health budget, except for the Interaction Reform, is the efficiency requirement of 625 million. kr. Of course, in addition to the fact that the budget agreement leaves the tax cuts almost untouched, as well as cutting further to the hospitals. St. Olav's hospice already reports that you're going to cut into the hundreds of millions. We haven't misunderstood. We have understood the signals from the Norwegian people, because we want to build Norway, not cut in Norway. We want Norway to remain the world’s best country to live in, that it should not be a former ‘higher’. That's why the Workers' Party is going to keep the promise to have a policy where we take health into account everything we do. It should be health-promoting to go to kindergarten, and you should be more motivated and get good memories of going to school. We need a safe and health-promoting working life. This is a recognition that yours, my health and that of the people are a personal responsibility, but it is also the responsibility of the community. We have the goal clearly in mind, and we are going to do that: a more equitable health care system that helps more people, and helps to reduce the differences between people. We must then be reckless of the instruments and of our faith in our objectives, for these are the results that count in the budget of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3287	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3290	I think I'm just going to go on at the representative of Otterstad's post, as he left it here, but he can get it afterwards! I fully agree with the representative who was just on the platform, who could explain that the Labour Party was concerned with results, because this was demonstrated when elections were held between 2005 and 2013 and promised the voters 12 000 new jobs in the care sector. The correct number was 567. That was the result: from 12,000 to 567. Furthermore, the representative says that this government is giving less money to the hospitals. No, it's over 2 billion. extra for hospitals, just to increase the number of patients. Also, the representative of Otterstad is absolutely right, because you were very good at results there too. So when the voters threw the red-green ones out of the government offices, they said about that. 270 000 people and waiting in line. I don't think the 270 000 were very happy with the policy that was being pursued, which was obviously very results oriented. The problem was just that there was the wrong result out of it. Furthermore, in 2005, at the beginning of the red-green government period, a unanimous increase in the de minimis threshold for medicinal products was sought. And it wasn't just going to increase, it was going to increase significantly. So it went eight years without anything happening. Then we got a new government, and now this limit is increased to $25 million. NOK 5 million. kr. And it's really nice that there's a unanimous committee, an overall committee, which thinks this is high time, which thinks this is right, so that people get better and faster access to good and innovative medicines. Yes, the result counts, but – as I said – sometimes the result you get is wrong. Norwegian patients had to wait eight years before getting these things in place. There is a lot that is good in the Norwegian health service, but there is also a lot in the Norwegian health service that you have to grips with. We have to make sure, and this government has now done, that the golden rule is being reintroduced within the health system: that the growth of the drugs and psychiatry must be greater than the growth of the somatic environment, just to raise those who have the greatest challenges and who sit at the bottom of the table. Yes, results are important. Therefore, it was sad that when this government took over, there were over 4,000 people waiting to enter drug treatment to be completely drug free. I fully agree that we will work for results. But then we have to make sure that we have a policy that will do better, that will ensure that more people are treated, that fewer people are in line, that they are allowed to choose. We have the right policy to move forward with this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3307	We will create the patient's healthcare service to provide rapid treatment and secure services in the future. We want to shift power from the system to the patient and therefore will cooperate with all the good forces to provide good health care. That's how we put the patient in the center and let it shape all the work on developing and changing health care. Today's Medicine just held a corps of health powers. There wasn't even a subject for patient power. Patients need to be taken more seriously. A little too often, patients experience becoming wasteballs in the system. It is often the system that fails when things go wrong in the health care system. System failure causes most errors, poor communication gives most frustration. There is no doubt that we politicians have the power to control the long lines, regulations and appropriations for health. We must never forget that there are professionals in the healthcare system from day to day. Some people think that something has been done when it is adopted. It's wrong, that's when the job starts. If you don't get a good cooperation and a common understanding with those who wear your shoes, you'll find it difficult to manage your healthcare overall. In addition, being a patient becomes more difficult. It is strange that so little of the health debate is about patients and the employees who treat them. Health services follow us from cradle to grave, it is with us in joy and sorrow. What matters to patients is how they are met in healthcare. This is the moment of truth, where the patient meets his doctor, where the sick get their care, where the one who wears, meets his therapist. Little too often, we hear about patients who experience random treatment, unclear messages and poor information. In cancer care, there is extra evil when such things happen. Therefore, the government's commitment to the package trajectory is a good example of how we have to work in the future. Uncertainty about treatment pathways is eliminated. Both the patient and the responsible doctor become safer. This obviously saves patients from uncertainty. It prevents errors and causes less frustration in an otherwise difficult situation. In addition, we save both personnel and financial resources. In the debate, there is a lot of talk about how much money is spent, and less about how they are spent. We should be more concerned about the last one. We use the resources right, and what can we do to get a system that floats easier, and is more patient-adapted? We don't want a two-part healthcare system, like the red-green ones add up to. We want anyone entitled to treatment to get it, regardless of whether it's at a public, non-profit or private institution. That part of the debate boils down to whether or not you have confidence that private actors in health care have good intentions for patients or not, or whether those who work in that part of health care feel as bound by rules, ethics and morals as the rest, or whether or not a person accepts that people are different, and like to have different preferences. The right has confidence in all parts of the Norwegian health system. We trust health professionals in Norway, and we know that our citizens can and will make different choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3325	This is a good health budget. It contains many good and recognizable progress games. I have to say I'm glad that the government and the majority of people put patients' needs in the centre and use all the good treatment services, including private and ideal. For years we have heard from the working party team that with the policy of the Progress Party it would be the individual's wallet that would decide when one was treated. This budget fully indicates that the opposite is happening. The government introduces free treatment choices in 2015, first for drug use, psychiatry and some somatic treatment. Free treatment options will allow patients experiencing long waiting in public, the possibility to choose to be treated by private and non-profit actors with free capacity. And worth noting is that the treatment is to be done without having to pay the patient himself, regardless of whether it is done in a public or private place of treatment. With this budget, the government has facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment in our first two budgets compared to what the red-greens were adopted over their eight years. In order to have a good health sector at all levels, we will not exclude the importance of having good and adequate health education. The health and care sector is staffing and competence intensive and requires more and more labour. Another important challenge is that the lack of health professionals will increase in the years to come. Even today, many people work in the sector without relevant vocational training. I am pleased that the government is taking health training seriously and is proposing a lot of measures, such as: grants for the financing of vocational education and training in the field of health and social sciences and the strengthening of the management of medicinal products in municipal care services. This will help to increase recruitment, enhance skills and professional development in care services. In order to ensure a high-quality health and care sector, the government is developing a new level of competence for the period 2016-2020. The plan shall contribute to ensuring that the care sector is adequately and competently staffed and contributes to the development of a highly professional care service, which will benefit users. In order to ensure good and equal access to important health services for children and young people, the Progress Party has for a long time highlighted the need to strengthen school health services. I am therefore pleased that, in the budgetary agreement, we are strengthening the 2015 budget with a total of 450 million. kr. This will strengthen health and school health services and allow more students access to school health services. We don't want to label the budget, because we know that school health is very varied around School-Norway, but we're going to keep track of the fact that the funding is used to strengthen the school health service. We will ensure that it is followed up and that it is given the necessary strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3346	When the state budget was presented earlier in the autumn, the government had removed the allocation to the cultural spa, which for several years has given great art and cultural experiences to older people throughout the country. It was a lifting breach of dimensions. Late in our ministry, the Minister of Health promised that a possible bourgeois government would take this arrangement further – a promise that can best be described as writing in the sand when the seas flourish. Even more strangely, the explanation that the government party figures have been saying is that most of the $30 million is now going to be closed. kr which was in the pot of the Cultural Spaserstock, into the budgets of the counties. The big question is what the money had to do there. It clarified the Minister of Culture when she was able to tell in a TV debate that the money was going to music therapy. Others talked about that now the employees in the hospital and care services would learn to entertain the elderly. While I'm sitting with a troubling feeling that what's problematic for the blue-blue is that it was the red-green government that established this fine and very successful system. Otherwise, how to interpret the most embarrassing explanations that have come up about the alternative use of the resources of the cultural spaserstock. Now take the Minister of Culture's proposal on music therapy. It's a health profession that requires master's degree, i.e. a five-year academic education. There are currently quite a few music therapists in this country. If this profession is to be promoted – and that is a good reason – it is important to strengthen education and to earmark funds for municipalities, so that music therapists can be hired. The rhetoric that hospital workers should learn to sing to the residents can be subdued, before bringing into complete disrepute the important work that takes place in many places to develop methods for the use of song, visual arts, film and poetry in care, for example. for dents. If this work is to be lifted, a few more dollars should be allocated to the 40 development centres for nursing homes and home care that we have in all the counties. There are already many exciting cultural projects here that need money to disseminate widely into the municipalities. And then a word on the tap: to all those who believe that the cultural spaserstock has been saved through the budget negotiations in the autumn, I would just like to say, dream sweet! The walking stick money has been sucked into the frame of the states with a wish for Christmas and a good new year. In other words, they are not earmarked, which is still the case in the Workers' Party's alternative budget. And when we know what the county budgets look like, everyone realizes that the cultural spaser stick doesn't have nubbeshance. So that's why, to the Christian People's Party and others who have seen how important this arrangement is to the most vulnerable of us: the cultural spaser stick is broken, the arrangement is actually terminated, at least in the long term. Sad, but sadly true.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3353	The next speaker is Kristin Örmen Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3356	I note that the presidency wants me to change my name to Johansen, but I keep Johnsen, for the time being. – It was just to wake you up! What does it mean to put the patient in the center and develop a healthcare service around the patient? That means that the big systems that we have today need to be rotated so that it is the patient who actually gets control of his or her own everyday life, his or her health, and not least in terms of treatment. The cancer packages are part of it, they must provide both safety and not least a framework around the treatments. That also means that we want to introduce more rights. The right has always been a driver for it, and it was the Right Party and the Advance Party that proposed free hospital choice. We also got that with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and it was those who suggested deadlines for treatment. That's also why we have statistics for deadlines in somatics today, and we now get it within all of the diagnostics. It's precisely because we've wanted to go ahead in getting the patient's rights up. The Labour Party has not gone ahead. They've come after. I get the impression today that the Workers' Party has a more ideological approach to the health care system, not to the patients as individuals. In this connection, I would like to go back to the line change that Torgeir Micaelsen and I had, where it is said that one will think new about getting more people into care. What I hear is that it's about the same thing – more money. But sometimes you actually have to change and try new things just to get more patients in treatment. I do not see that the Labour Party is willing to do so. There's a kind of a horror scenario that you're going to get a lot of privatization here. I just remind you that it's under 10 pst. the current treatment of non-profit institutions serving households or private organisations. That being said, of course, we want to strengthen the public hospitals, and we have arranged for a higher growth in patient treatment in our first two budgets compared to what the red-greens were adopted. So it's not useful to tell a story that there's a bad situation here for hospitals. They get more resources for treatment, and we also want to escalate it gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3371	The largest allocation in the budget of the Health and Welfare Committee is the allocation of EUR 132 billion to regional health enterprises. of a total of 174 billion kr in expenditure. Under the heading of the option ‘Reduced health cows and faster treatment’ it is from the Right and the Advance Party that they want to ‘use all good forces to reduce unnecessary waiting and to provide faster treatment’. The answer is therefore free treatment in the specialist healthcare service in 2015, first in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, mental health protection and in some areas of somatic care – the allocation is 150 million. kr. The centre party is opposed to this and will continue a good system in which the State Special Health Service has a care-for-responsibility, where private non-profit and commercial companies are now paid about 10 p.m., or more than 10 billion. kr, of the appropriations of the regional health establishments. But the Center Party will not only continue, we will also change. So what's the change in the Central Party to reduce the health cows and get faster treatment? The answer is better management, better management of specialist healthcare. It's a lot to pick up. Here I have the experience of examining a number of national audit reports by the Control Committee. But the government, with the Left and Christian People's Party as supporters, does not bet on this. Having followed the debate today, I think it is surprising that almost one person has mentioned the word'management'. Leadership is hardly mentioned by any of the parties' representatives, and it stands for me as very strong. The cooperation parties believe that the state-funded hospitals, on the contrary, need challenges from other actors – read private – to deal with the state-owned hospitals about 90 pst. of the activity also in 2015, i.e. approximately 120 billion. kr in government expenditure. The center party believes that there is a lot of work to be done on better management in state businesses, whether it's in Nav, the police or hospitals, and we're betting on a so-called operation-based management. It requires management and employees to see together what the task is, and in hospitals, the task is to meet patients and treat them. This can be greatly improved. We have a number of areas where there is good management in public hospitals, but there is a switch from clinic-based management to, among others. local management. The management at Ringerijk Hospital has received a prize for the best leadership. It is with great amazement that I experience here in the Chamber that that leadership is not seen as an example – that you do not learn from it, improve through the good example, and save an incredible amount of money instead of adding up to the choice made by the government here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3389	After listening to the speeches by the representatives of Otterstad and Knutsen, one could get the impression that the red-green government could only continue, and that we would assume that the care of the elderly shone. But I think what the gloss picture Otterstad tried to draw is not something patients recognize in, relatives are familiar with, or healthcare professionals are familiar with. There is a lot of work that works well — I was involved in my main post — but there are also a lot of reports that point to major challenges in the care sector in Norway. The representatives of the Workers' Party may not have read these reports. They should. There are reports that tell of a lack of skills building and knowledge development in the care sector and a lack of capacity. Therefore, there is a need for a significant change of pace. We need to equip the community health service to become professionally strong and competent. Therefore, this government is not passive and receives supervisory reports and notifications, but takes concrete action. It's about lifting professionalism, and it's about lifting the need for more leadership into the care sector. We have announced in the budget that there will be a new level of competence for the period 2016-2020, the Competence Commitment 2020. This promise shall contribute to ensuring that the care sector has adequate and competent staff. They shall develop a professionally strong care service. The representative Knutsen was inside the cultural walking stick. It is quite right that the government proposed to redeploy the funds on the health budget of the cultural spa, for more individualised use of music as treatment, especially to dementia sufferers. But in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the funds for the Cultural Spaserstock were passed on to the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, but so that the municipalities can apply to the county municipalities for funds for action. That's how it's happening today. As far as I know, these funds are not earmarked today either. I live in a municipality that has not applied for grants to the Cultural Spaserstick in two years. However, municipalities can still apply for funds from KMD budgets. What's worth noting is that the Workers' Party in its budget has cut 15.4 million. kr in funds, which our government wants to use to develop the skills of using music in the care of dementians – which will reduce the need for tranquilizers, which will increase the quality of life of the individual – where the music therapists, whom Knutsen’s representative was involved, can participate in building competences in the care sector in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3404	The representative Knutsen says this is in the frame. The funds are marked The cultural walking stick above the municipal budget, i.e. in the Ministry of Local Affairs' budget. But I want to raise another matter. It has been said by many, and by several in this room quite many times today: the patient in front of the system. That's good. But for those who have said that, it also commits, because sometimes it is not that users, relatives or institutions experience the patient getting ahead of the system. In addition, we have said in this Chamber today that priority should be given to drugs. I think we all agree on that. We run detoxification, treatment and post-protection. Then there's a lady I'm thinking about when I'm talking about posterity, called Grete Natalie Storm-Johansen. She was a drug addict down here on Plata in Oslo 16 years ago. Then she got detoxification, she came into the treatment site -- someone gave her up and sent her elsewhere. Finally, she started a new life, she started to train, took health training and started after many years a follow-up offer that can show incredible results. Everyone sees that what Grete and the people around her do, works. Everything from hospitals to municipalities says this. People get a training offer, they get help for work, houses and new friends when they come out and they've become drug free. But what Grete and the patients experience is that not all Nav offices and all municipalities think this is equally important. If we are to succeed in our care, we must not only think about detoxification and treatment, we must also say yes to successful after-care. That Grete and her organization No Limitation got 500,000 kroner from our health budget, is good, but I wish we had a patient-oriented healthcare system that saw that it was the patient who stood first, and not the systems, and that not the Nav offices say different things when patients ask for help because they want a whole new life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3415	Many speakers from the government party have said that the government will create the patient’s health service and put the patient in the center. That's what I thought was a very good target and very correct. But it's not the patient's health service to shut down district emergency services, and it's not the patient's health service to centralize preparedness away from where people live. It is not the patient’s health service to ignore examinations for patient-experienced quality, such as on Rjukan. In Rjukan and Kragerø, the patient’s healthcare service has recently been abolished. It is not the patient’s health service to place daily treatment facilities in the psychiatry until the supply is built up in the municipalities and at the DPS. Lowering the East is not the patient's health care. It is not the patient’s healthcare service to prevent illness in children and young people and to take fruit and vegetables from school students, and it is not the patient’s healthcare service to refuse to introduce a municipal mental health promotion plan, even if the need is very great. It is not the patient’s health service to provide more cheap alcohol and extended opening hours at the Vinmonopolet, and it is not the patient’s health service to downbuild the public health service in favour of an ideologically controlled reform called free treatment options. It is not the patient’s health service to rotate resource use and the provision of relief treatment for patients with long-term and complex needs. It is not the patient’s health service to contribute to the more expensive and less efficient operation of the public hospitals by transferring parts of the elective enterprise to private ones, while the responsibility for cutting services remains. It is not the patient’s healthcare service to lose public hospitals for the necessary skills by shifting important personnel groups to private elective activities with less vigilance, and it does not benefit the patient’s health service to make it difficult for the education sector, which needs more and more places of practice in an increasingly fragmented healthcare system. Nor does it benefit the patient to impose public hospitals on outreach personnel in order to mannify new private offerings. Free treatment options have encountered considerable resistance in the hearing, and the government itself writes that the way in which services are organised has limitations, and that it may be, as it says, ‘more difficult to differentiate by quality and to establish complex treatment processes across public and private suppliers than through regular acquisitions and agreements’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3426	This debate has become a rhetorical exercise, particularly on the part of the Right and the Progressive Party. Here, some mantras repeat over and over again. It reminds me a little about the election campaign. Then the Right had been in Sweden and learned from his Swedish sister party, and we heard over and over again that now it was «humans, not billions» who were Right Policy. Then they won the election, and then the fasitite came: tax cuts for the richest, a budget for people with billions. This is in the same street. One should have the patient's health care, the patient's health care, and move power from the system to the patient. We fully agree with all of this. But the active ingredient, so it's free treatment. Now the representative elaborated Top this in an excellent way in the post before me, so I'm not going to go into the details of it. But more market – who makes it? Capacity will not be increased, probably, with more market. There's reason to fear the opposite. There's reason to fear that this isn't going to be the patient's health care system, that it's going to be the exact opposite. It might be for some patients, but what about all the others? Who supports this? That's an interesting question. The Medical Association, not the Norwegian Association of Nurses, not the Norwegian Association of Psychologists, not the Health Inspectorate, not the Health Directorate, no more health companies and not the hospital, for example. I belong, Southern Hospital. These are narrow, ideological thinking in one of the most important areas of society. It reminds me a little bit of the Right approach to property taxes. The vast majority of economists in this country say you shouldn't reduce taxes on wealth, but you do it on the right. So the so-called knowledge-based party Right, which they say listens to professionalism, makes the opposite of wealth tax, and they make the exact opposite of health policy and the way you now think about taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3438	Individuals make a difference. Good health managers make a difference. Today's Medisin has recently appointed the hundreds of main leaders and managed to forget the leader who is most important for a good health service tonight and tomorrow. That head is the many thousands of department heads in hospitals and municipalities in Norway. The department heads are the decisive link in the chain from Stortinget to the patient. Department leaders have to put in place plans, crew plans, finances, and they have to get it up. I don't think department leaders think growth is 2 billion. kr to hospitals is the same as a promised growth of 3 billion. kr. It's just far from the patient that two and three are equivalent. Therefore, a little humility clothes us all. The main contributions of the Progress Party and the Right in the debate today were chemically free of humility on this budget — chemically free. The Health Minister himself had a different tone and expressed, among other things, that the budget next year will not address all the needs of people with mental illness. And then the Council of State knows he's responsible. Individuals can make a difference, individual councils can make a difference, and we measure on action and on results — also state councils. Words alone don't count, and I think patients will agree with this. Individuals make a difference. The Moser couple get the Nobel Prize in Medicine this year. We are proud, and it is their turn, with the support of their university, NTNU, and with the support of some rich people – some rich people in Norway who have values at several levels and who pay both property taxes and finance research for the future. Is it possible for Norway to win a new Nobel Prize? How can a small country make a difference? I think that's possible. I think we need to set new high targets for dementia research. Without breakthroughs in early diagnosis and treatment, the welfare of the future is uncertain for the majority. The Moser couple say that their research can be a window into understanding dementia and good dementia research. It gives hope, and I think we should use that hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3451	Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3455	I hope everyone now agrees that the walking stick money will be used as we want it to be used. I want to take the opportunity to record the thread from my reply to the State Council on the case in Finnmark. I think it's strange and not to believe that the Council of State really answers as he does in this case. I am not addressing any accusations against the Minister of Health, nor against the previous one. However, when HELFO enters into an agreement with a private commercial operator who appears to be completely unreasonable and incomprehensible, it is the health minister who has to take responsibility for cleaning up. HELFO is doing an important job in Norwegian health care, and I have not heard that someone will remove HELFO. However, if we suspect that the practice of legislation is not good, or if the legislation should be amended, we should take action. But the Minister of Health has so far turned his attention to this matter. I don't think it's a good idea if the Minister of Health is to be a watchman for no commercial exessions in free choice of treatment, or that it is going to develop into a seller's market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3462	The representative Lundtegen addressed the topic of management, and I fully agree that there is a debate we need to strengthen in the Norwegian health care system, and especially in the hospital sector. But a little look back at the red-green development and governance for eight years: Europe's largest hospital was created at almost 50 locations in Oslo. It is demanding to be the leader when operating almost 50 jobs across a very large geographical area. What is the basis for Norway as a small country to have Europe’s largest hospital? What kind of management ideology was that? In addition, we have a significant fragmentation in the Norwegian health system. At national level, if you look back at the ICT management that has been, it probably reminds you more of a national image. The hearing of the Supervisory Committee and the review of electronic notification exchanges by the National Audit Board show the challenges that have at least been and are likely to be there in the absence of national management. The mission documents developed and the letters of assignment have contained a great deal of objectives and wishes. It's demanding to be the leader with such a lot of desires. Bad hospitals are a good example of local management. Yeah, maybe there's more policemen to get us good leaders in health care. We have to grow more types of leaders. For the Left, we believe that it is possible to develop diversity and also learning and experience by having different actors, and at least do not create more national mastodons that are demanding to guide. In the case of national management, at least the new government has pointed to national health ICT as a single instrument to implement more effectively and to create more standardised solutions. Another version of it is Hospital Building, so the hospitals that we are going to build in the future are not with project organisations that have never built hospitals before, and repeat and make mistakes. There is a need to standardise to a much greater extent some health services. As far as research is concerned, I agree with the Health representative that we have some challenges. We also have some challenges in financing medical research in hospitals. In the case of Moser as an example, we must admit, unfortunately, that medicine has not been the largest contributor to that research. It is mainly NTNU's natural science research and private resources that have contributed to that research. So here we have a structure job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3477	Kristin Ørmen Johnsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3480	Humility is a difficult exercise. I agree that we can all be humble, but that also applies to the Workers' Party. I still miss a little humility about thinking new and perhaps looking a little bit closer at free treatment options. You might be able to see something positive by that arrangement as well. So to this tax thing. It is that values must be created before they can be shared. Creating values in society gives a bigger budget. It also allows us to get more funds for health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3487	The husband of the riot I got from the representative Harald T. Nesvik's posts, has the Workers' Party hardly seen in 70 years – perhaps in Uppland? Good over 70 pst. digestion should be said to be a pleasure. It's like this – to the representative Nesvik and the representative Örmen Johnsen, as I know from the committee – that even if you repeat one thing several times, it doesn't mean that it becomes more true. I am very concerned with the results, and I am really very happy that the group leader from the Progress Party took this on board, because I fully agree: the favorite period in the history of the Workers' Party is for me 2005–2013, so I am very happy that the group leader wants to discuss that period with me. We treated an incredible number of more patients, we built hospitals, so it sang for – as for example. St. Olav's Hospital, as the government with the Right as the last thing it did before it went off, said no to. We have built a healthcare system and treated an incredible number of people who needed help. But we never got into goal, and that's why we've agreed today that politics is something that's still moving and evolving. That's one of the reasons why we're still making choices. Especially about hospital places: I fully agree with the representative Nesvik that we have a great job to do. But let's take a randomly chosen municipality that I know a little bit, let's say. Trondheim. If everyone had built as many hospitals as the municipality of Trondheim – in terms of size – there would have been 11,500 hospitals built during the period we're talking about, almost to the fullest extent possible. Then we can compare to a randomly chosen municipality that we're in now, for example. Oslo, who has laid down over 400 sick homes. It is clear that we, as central politicians, should facilitate the construction of hospitals, and that our older people – the people involved – in the municipalities are doing well. But it is also a local responsibility. The representative Nesvik actually finished where we started, talking about prevention. The representative Mr. Ormmen Johnsen has also asked for it from us, this is that we're not talking about the patient. But we're talking about the people. We're dealing with what the Labour Party has called for in this whole debate, that's the prevention part. You're a human being before you become a patient, too. That's why we're proposing to earmark funds for school health, so that you can see all the people before they become part of health care. That's what public health is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3500	I felt the need to take the word to try to clarify at least a few historical misunderstandings. Unfortunately, when you try to present it as if the decisions and appropriations relating to St. Olav’s Hospital were made in the period 2005 and beyond, you have not followed very well in the hour. I entered the Stortinget in 1997 and went directly into the social committee, which was responsible for the hospitals. That was in the period we discussed St. Olav's Hospital. It was during the period of construction of the St. Olav Hospital. St. Olav's Hospital was a project inherited from the county councils, so the decisions were already there. Then you got money on the table, and it's just that it takes a lot of years to build a hospital. It is quite right to continue to build at St. Olav’s Hospital during this period, but the decision had been made terribly long before 2005 and under a completely different government. It's important when you're trying to deal with facts. The second thing I want to say is the health care of the future. In comparison with the Christian People's Party and the Left, something very important has also come into play, namely asking for more innovative purchases to be made in regional health businesses as well. In the extension of what we are talking about in terms of welfare technology, a separate proposal has been put in place to assess how to make innovative purchases in healthcare. The regional and ordinary health enterprises purchase very many billions of dollars. Then it is important that they also participate in and contribute to research and development, and that they also provide a budding beyond what one can research into. That is why these things are important. I will give great honor to the Christian People's Party and the Left for what we were able to achieve in the conciliation. Furthermore, I would like to conclude by saying – at least I hope it will be concluded – that I agree with the representative, Mr. Kjeseth, in relation to the post that he had to bet on the Radium Hospital, to bet on putting in place a proton center in that connection and ensuring that a system is put in place where the gigantomania is not going to take over, but that you can simply bet on the effective, good units for the joy of the patient. I think the representative very much agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3516	The representative Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3519	The representative of Otterstad mentions Trondheim, and believes that other municipalities should look to Trondheim in terms of expanding hospitals. This summer I was at St. Olav's Hospital with a co-representative. There we were told that the municipality did not take home enough of the ready-to-print, not pre-treated patients, i.e. these patients going into the municipality, according to the Cooperation Reform introduced in the previous period. There are a number of articles in the Address Paper during the last few weeks that point to major challenges in the care of elderly people in Trondheim, so that some humility on the part of the representative could be in place. For example, I want to do this. refer to Ullensaker municipality in Akershus, which has no older house in double rooms, and which, as I have seen, provides good care for the elderly in a Progress Party – Right-Handed municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3524	The representative of Audun Otterstad has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3527	The way he twists and turns the words, he gets to be up to the representative of the Progress Party. The truth is that Ansgar Gabrielsen and the right parties provided such a miserable economy in the health sector that several hospitals suffered massive deficits and the expansion of the RiT was stopped. And the plans had been there for a long time. So to the last one, which came from the Right, about nursing homes in Trondheim. I fully agree that we have challenges, but that matter the representative points out, is probably that St. Olav's Hospital had sent home an old lady too early, so that she died when she came home. It's sad and very regrettable, but we have great opportunities for many new, big development projects that we can work well on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3535	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Then I guess there's hope that you can finish the story.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3538	I will be brief and end with a comment to the representative of Otterstad. What happened was that one lost control of part of the development. You had to put your foot down to get progress and progress in the project within the framework that was given. If there was one thing in the initial phase that characterized the construction of St. Olav's Hospital, it was just the constant exceedances. I think the first time we had this for treatment here in Stortinget, the hospital would cost less than 5 billion. kr. I don't think you need long math education to realize that the numbers you're currently operating on the extension of St. Olav's Hospital are of a completely different magnitude. I think it's important that we read the whole story, and not just the story that someone has told us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3545	It was interesting to hear Per Olaf Lundtägen and his perspectives on Norwegian healthcare. He is quite right: there is reason to discuss the management of Norwegian hospitals. Yes, there is reason to discuss all aspects of public sector management. However, he cannot have received everything that was said by the representatives of the Right in this debate. Several of us have suggested raising the patient perspective, and that's precisely management we're talking about when we want to look carefully at how resources are used. It's a management question. It's management we're talking about when you don't get good cooperation and common understanding with those who have the shoes on. It is therefore liberating to say that I agree with Lundtägen: A lot can be better in the management of the public sector, much better in the management of Norwegian hospitals. That is why we are so concerned about looking more closely at how the money is spent, and not discussing as much as how much money is spent. But that Stortinget decides that all management of Norwegian hospitals should be local – where the consensus stops.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3552	It is nice that both the representative Kjeseth and Stensland now address the issue of management – finally. It is said from the representative of Stensland that the patient perspective is another word for management. All right, fine. So what we want is to have a management where there is a better understanding of reality between managers and those who are in practice, that those who do the job know best how to deal with the situation, within agreed procedures, and that those who do the job get more responsibility and influence – that is, that those who are in the situation become the central ones, and that there is less detailed management. It's referred here to national mastodons, it's referred to centralization. Yes, let's get a discussion on, let's get a discussion on structure, whether the closure of emergency reception is the answer instead of looking at better management. It's the good meeting between patients and therapists who need professionals who interact and cooperate on the ground. What I said was that local management was far better than that used in many healthcare companies, namely clinic management. I agree with what has been said here from several, that it is the head of department that is the central one. In large hospitals, and in smaller hospitals as well, the head of department is usually central, but it is the overall management that is crucial to the seventh and last – the overall management that ensures professional quality, which ensures budgetary responsibility, and which is responsible for human resources. Everyone under the care of the hospital should have a manager. It gives fellowship, it gives common responsibility – call it patriotism or pride over its hospital. Anyone who feels pride and patriotism about what a driver does would like to do better and take greater responsibility, even in the public domain – therefore. It is sad that the government then runs on this line with free treatment choices and centralisation of emergency functions instead of focusing on better management and looking at the good examples. The Government Party's Örmen Johnsen and Wold should take special note of Ringerijk's votes in meeting with the Council of State. Why this does not happen, shows that free treatment choices are ideologically motivated by the Right and the Advance Party, to give private companies bigger markets. It's expensive, but it's true – so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3563	Sveinung Stensland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3566	It's kind of strange that someone chooses to meet a degree of consensus with such a response, when I say that it's good management to get to just these good patient meetings. That's what I said in my main post, and that's what I said in my previous post. In my first article in this debate, I talked about the moment of truth, when the patient meets his therapist. It's all about this, and it's good management that's going to facilitate more such good meetings – customer meetings they're talking about somewhere, in health care it's called patient meetings. Finally, I said that the consensus stops when it comes to an absolute need for local management at each hospital. Of course, there should be a management at the hospital anyway, but in the case of the very last proposal there, we do not agree with the Center Party. But I want to thank Lundtigen for putting management in focus, because it's a challenge in all parts of the public sector. We need more and better management in all parts of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3573	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will then have the opportunity to return that thanks. He has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3576	I would like to thank the representative of Stensland for what he said. What was my point is that an agreement must have consistency. An agreement must be able to operate in a new practice. We have a little too many examples that one in a smaller hospital has gone away from local management and from hospital management, so that the management of the small hospital is divided into several. Then don't have the flock that works there, the community that's necessary. Then, in my own county, we have a role model, Ringerijk, where management gets the prize for best leadership. My cross of thought is, why isn't that leadership set out as an example for use elsewhere? That's the point. Here's a lot to pick up, and I hope that the representative of Stensland will discuss this further, for here... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3583	In that case it has to be another time, because now it's time. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3599	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3606	This Document 8 suggests that the Legal Genetics Centre in Tromsø can carry out DNA analyses in criminal matters. It has been suggested that legal genetic work should continue to be carried out by public actors and that the Judicial Genetics Centre in Tromsø can deliver from 10-25 pst. of the analyses needed. It is also proposed that the Legal Genetics Centre be established at the University of Tromsø, so as to provide an independent professional environment, and that the link between research, education and practical analytical work be ensured. The mission of the Judicial Genetics Centre shall continue to be direct to the Ministry of Health and Welfare with a government budget. One asks the government to facilitate the development of ICT solutions so that the police and the Kripos can communicate with two separate providers of legal genetic services, i.e. the Public Health Institute with the Forensic Institute and the Legal Genetics Centre. The Storting decided in 2008 to create a DNA analysis institute at the University of Tromsø as a supplement to the Institute of Forensic Medicine in Oslo. It led to the establishment of the Legal Genetics Centre, which is currently carrying out research and development of legal genetics competences, but no analysis has been carried out in criminal matters. A working group set up by the Ministry of Health and Welfare delivered a report in September 2013, the Organisation of Legal Genetic Services in Criminal Law, which outlines four possible models for the legal genetic work in Norway. Three of these models allow the Regtsgenetic Centre to conduct DNA analyses of trace samples as a supplement to the Forensic Institute of the Institute of Public Health. Many have suggested that Norway needs an environment number two when it comes to DNA analysis. In its report of September 2013, the Forensic Commission stressed the importance of the existence in Norway of independent, accredited legal genetic laboratory with academic anchorages capable of carrying out DNA analyses in criminal matters. In the setting, a joint committee has stressed the importance of high-quality public DNA analysis with the treatment and response times that meet police needs. In this setting, reference is made to the letters of the Council of State on the matter, where it is determined that the government will open for use by several accredited providers of DNA analysis, including private actors. In the setting, the Committee also refers to the right genetic centre audioplay, where they point out that the centre is accredited for legal genetic analysis and is well equipped to carry out DNA analyses in criminal matters. The plurality of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left, do not support the proposals, while the members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left are storing some or all of the proposals that have been made. The central party will pay tribute to the representatives of the Labour Party, who have made a very important and very topical proposal. The centre party has also been strongly involved in this matter. In our view, there is no argument for not giving the Right Genetics Centre the opportunity to conduct DNA analyses for use in criminal justice. The Centre has received accreditation for carrying out DNA analyses, they already have responsibility for education and research, and analytical tasks will be entirely natural for a centre responsible for education and research. Missing ICT solutions are used as an argument. Yes, upgrades are needed, but a positive decision on the Regtsgenetic Center as a supplier of DNA analyses is based on the assumption that the analytical work begins when the technical solutions are in place. I note that it is hardly possible to have multiple numbers that the Storting will vote against the proposals in question, since the Left will vote against all the proposals. So I'm a little bit unsure if I'm going to make the suggestions or if it's the Labour Party that's going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3632	The representative, Tope, may comment on the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3635	Then I'll take up the suggestions that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3640	The representative Kjersti Toppe has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3643	There is broad consensus that DNA is a recognised tool in criminal engineering. DNA evidence may be appropriate both to link a person to a criminal offence and to exclude persons from such acts. It was the Stoltenberg government that presented the DNA reform in 2008 and that established the Rechtsgenetics Center, RGS, affiliated to the University of Tromsø, the Arctic University of Norway. The size decided that RGS should be responsible for research and education and be a supplementary environment for DNA analyses for use in criminal justice. In connection with the DNA reform, the Directorate of Police commissioned the Ministry of Justice to take responsibility for a four-year DNA project. The aim of the project was to look at whether the extended scope for use of DNA in the investigation would contribute to a more effective investigation and clarification of several issues. The evaluation that came in 2013 concludes that the DNA reform has had a clear positive impact on the police, prosecution authorities and courts. However, it also underlines the need for increased analytical capacity and better training. The evaluation shows large geographical differences: Oslo usually submits a request for analysis while Mid-Hålogaland rarely sends. When legal medicine was moved from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Health budget in 2011, red-green health politicians started to look at the organisation of forensic medicine, in particular given the need for a prominent role for the RGS. The State grant to the RGS doubled in 2013 and then Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre appointed a party-based selection to investigate different models of forensic work in Norway. In three of the four models that the sample outlined, the RGS was recommended as a national environment number two to provide DNA analyses. Today’s representative proposal for RGS to carry out DNA analyses for use in criminal justice has long had a majority both in the Storting and in the forensic environments. In addition to the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party, both the Left and the Christian People's Party have openly supported the proposal, which also provides for the most necessary updating of police's ICT systems to serve two analytical environments. The argument that we need an independent analytical environment like the university-based RGS also supports the majority. But the government has once again axed its ideological coercion and said that you want private, commercial actors to do DNA analyses. In this regard, we show concern for a private company in Stavanger, which can probably be made up of good people, but which is not close to having the capacity or broad competence of the RGS in Tromsø. It is also such that the privatisation of the analytical tasks may mean that the contract must be tendered throughout the EEA territory. How, then, can we be sure that the biological material will be handled as we wish in Norway? DNA is sensitive information about the individual and needs to be handled with the greatest degree of certainty. Governmental parties insist that the RGS in Tromsø should also be considered as a supplier of DNA analyses, but then the question is, how many legal genetic environments do we really need? Is the RGS to be operated on the tender market for commissioning? First State Attorney in Troms and Finnmark, Lars Fause, warns against such a development and indicates that this is a very sophisticated competence that is dominated by relatively few: ‘I would be very sceptical if you could ‘shop’ this service with anyone,’ says the State Attorney to the NRK. ‘In principle, it would be most reassuring to have a few approved centres in Norway carrying out this task, such as the highest-level analysis lab in Tromsø’. If not the majority we actually have here in Stortinget, would vote to give the Rettsgenetic Center a special place as an actor for DNA analysis, I'm afraid it burns a blue-blue light for this whole environment in Tromsø, which, in addition to being accredited to provide DNA analyses, also needs this practical task to be the complete educational and research environment that it's actually meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3667	The capacity for legal genetic work has been a long-term challenge, and it is regrettable that the previous government did not take that situation seriously. The DNA reform has resulted in a significant increase in the number of police trace samples, and the procedure for the completion of expert reports is far too long. We are committed to getting more actors to carry out such analyses on behalf of the police and are satisfied that the government is in the process of doing so. It has long been our policy to facilitate the use of legal genetic analyses from interlaboratory environments. However, we do not want to make a categorical distinction between public and private suppliers, as long as the laboratories are accredited. The right has worked for several years to help more analysts to clarify more issues more quickly. I'm sure this is where the Workers' Party has turned in one more thing. The 2013 state budget indicated that the environment in Tromsø should not be built up as a producer of analytical services. The red-green government said by 2012 that the Public Health Institute had enough capacity to deal with DNA analyses. We believe that it is very important to ensure the legal security and privacy of our citizens. DNA analysis is the management of sensitive and personal information about individuals. It is therefore necessary to carry out the work of obtaining more accredited suppliers in such a way as to ensure legal certainty and privacy. The Minister of Justice and Security has recently received a draft investigation from the Directorate of Police on the organisation of safe communication and management of information through the use of several DNA analysts in criminal matters. I am aware that the Minister of Health, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice and Security, will review the options and plan further work. For us, it is less important where and by whom such samples are analysed, as long as they are carried out safely in terms of legal protection, privacy and analytical security. It's going to be wrong to commit to individual institutions or to what kind of ownership the laboratories have in this context. There must be objective criteria on the basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3682	In principle, I just have to say that I fully agree with the representative of Stensland, who presented the matter in a fine manner. This is a matter of certainty that the samples that are taken are correct, and that the information that is given and the analysis that we are doing is done in such a way that it is raised beyond any doubt that these things are done in a proper and good way. Then it can't be that here today we are making a debate of the place where this is going to happen. It must happen, as the representative of Stensland was also concerned, according to objective criteria, where you go into what analyses, what opportunities you have, and that you don't look into whether it's public or private, because it's, to me at least, resoundingly indifferent, to say it in good health. It is also interesting to note the commitment of the Workers' Party also in this matter. While the opinion was very good and very positive in 2012, we could see that during the treatment of the state budget for 2013, the environment in Tromsø was not to be built up as a producer of analysis services – and that’s a little interesting. But I am pleased with the work that is currently going on, that we can get ahead of this case, that we can be sure of the results that are coming, that the analyses that are being done are really done, and that you don't have to start dealing with them manually because some are very hung in a specific place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3689	In 2008 the Stortinge adopted the DNA analysis institute at the University of Tromsø, as a supplement to the Forensic Institute in Oslo. Today, this centre conducts research and development of competences in the field of legal genetics, but they cannot, therefore, analyse – they are not allowed to analyse – even if they have both people and machines. For a government that is concerned with efficiency, it's a little strange – when you have both the people and the machines, but one is not allowed. So I also know that it's about an ICT system. It has to be in place, no matter who has to have it offered or have to do that job. In September 2013, a report was submitted to the Ministry of Health and Welfare by a working group to look at the organisation of legal genetic services in our country, with a criminal law context. There, the four different models are outlined, where Tromsø is mentioned in three of these – that Tromsø should be able to carry out DNA analyses of trace samples, in addition to the Public Health Institute. There are many people who have arranged to get a bigger environment for DNA analyses. So here's the equipment and the people that are needed, but we can't use it. Then we think in the Christian People's Party: when it's queue to be allowed to analyze, it's long wait, why don't we use the possibilities that are present? Then I don't rule out that we can actually use private actors in this area. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the proposals 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3698	Legal genetic experts must be of high professional quality based on robust and indisputable analyses. I am therefore pleased that Norway has a highly forensic and legal genetic environment at the Swedish Institute of Public Health and the Legal Genetics Centre at the University of Tromsø. Norway needs more environments in the field of legal genetics, and we also need more environments that carry out DNA analyses. It is vulnerable that such analyses are carried out only on a single site, as is currently the case. The 2013 report of the Forensic Commission also underlines the importance of the existence in Norway of independent, accredited legal genetic laboratories with academic anchorages capable of carrying out DNA analyses in criminal matters. The DNA reform has resulted in a significant increase in the number of police tracks. After a long period of time, one in the third quarter of this year sees an improvement in the length of proceedings. That is why we are not in a hurry per day. It is now possible for us to make an overall assessment of how the work on legal genetic services can be properly organised, both professionally, economically and practically, before making decisions on which actors are allowed to carry out the analyses. DNA analysis involves the management of sensitive and personal information about individuals. It is therefore important to ensure legal certainty and privacy. Before opening up several providers of DNA analysis in criminal matters, the Left is concerned that it is facilitated for safe communication and information management. We therefore believe that there is good reason to await the recent draft investigation by the Directorate of Police in connection with this and its follow-up both in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. For the Left, it is important that we have good public professional environments in legal genetics, and we believe that both the Institute of Public Health and the Legal Genetics Centre are important and necessary professional environments in this area. However, we do not believe that there is a basis for rejecting any addition of the offer from private operators with professional capacity to provide services in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3712	The answer is private actors, but what is the question? That's how it's often to deal with this government. We also see in this case that one is looking for and sees if one can create some kind of new market for private services. It's an honest thing to be convinced, but it's wise to check what you have in the kitchen before going out to buy new ingredients. In this case, I believe it is well documented through the process that there is an up-to-date environment with sufficient competence. A thorough job has been done to identify different alternatives, and it seems obvious that it will be a safe choice to give these types of skills to the Judicial Genetics Centre in Tromsø. It would be wise to take care of a competence environment in which it has already been invested. This case focuses attention on another rather systematic feature of the blue government, and it is the down-priority of North Norway, which comes out with a loss when the Right and Advance Party prioritize on a case-by-case basis, in the field by field. I'm absolutely sure there's something people in Tromsø and in the rest of North Norway now starting to notice very, very well. The arguments are well advanced by the representatives Toppe and Knutsen, and SV will vote in favour of all the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3723	There is a general consensus that there is a need for several accredited suppliers to carry out DNA analyses on behalf of the police in Norway. The government does not distinguish between accredited public and accredited private suppliers on the government platform, as the representatives behind the proposal do. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee is committed to change, regardless of whether the supplier is private or public. As a health and care minister, I have the overall responsibility for providing high-quality services to the agencies under the Ministry of Health and Health, and I therefore make demands on the activities of the National Institute of Public Health. I am pleased to see that the majority of the Committee has noticed that the Institute's efforts are producing results. As is known, the activities of the Institute in this field are more than routines related to DNA analyses. The Public Health Institute also provides advice and guidance on optimal securing and dispatching of samples and conducts research in areas closely related to routine activities. I therefore wonder that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV stress that there is a general consensus that the Legal Genetics Centre should have the national responsibility for research and education in the legal genetic field, especially in the light of the extensive real-life competence of the Public Health Institute in legal genetic engineering. As the proposers refer to, work on DNA analyses involves dealing with sensitive and personal information about individuals. I am therefore concerned that the work of opening up several accredited suppliers needs to be carried out in such a way as to ensure the legal certainty and privacy of the parties involved as best as possible. I notice that the majority of the committee shares my view on this. This is best ensured by the availability of sufficient analytical capacity at all times and the provision of safe communication and management of information from several suppliers. As mentioned in my letter of 5 September 2014 to the Committee, the Minister for Justice and Security has already opened up the possibility for police districts to use other accredited suppliers in individual cases, where they consider it most appropriate. But today's electronic interaction system limits, as is well known, the possibility of exchanging secure information between people other than the Institute of Public Health, Kripos and the police. The government will do something about this. The Directorate of Police has therefore been commissioned by the Minister of Justice and Security to investigate different concepts for the organisation of secure communication and management of information through the use of multiple DNA analysis providers in criminal matters. The investigation has recently been handed over to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and I am made aware that the Police Directorate has identified six alternatives. In addition to the zero option, four alternatives are distinguished by the different roles and responsibilities of suppliers. Now, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice and Security, I want to review the options and plan for further work. I therefore appreciate the fact that the majority of the Committee wants to await the question of whether the Legal Genetics Centre can carry out DNA analyses until a more detailed assessment of alternatives, logistical solutions and funding models has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3738	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3741	Legal Genetics Center in Tromsø is accredited and ready to conduct DNA analyses for use in criminal matters. The Centre has competent professionals, they have to train forensics and researchers in the field. A modern DNA analysis laboratory is ready and can be used immediately. This will help to shorten the response time and increase capacity so that more samples can be taken than today. During the consultation in Stortinget, representatives of the Legal Genetics Centre underlined the importance of the practical analysis work for the Centre’s mission of education and research. Based on this information, will the Minister of Health ensure that the environment of the Judicial Genetics Centre is given priority over commercial actors in carrying out DNA analyses?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3748	I am dealing with the government platform, where we do not distinguish between private and public actors in this area. What is essential is that one is accredited and complies with the quality requirements and that one can have safe communication with Kripos and the police for the rest. We have now been investigated for that, and the Minister of Justice and I will follow this up in the further work. But the Minister of Justice has already told the police districts that they can use accredited environments if they need to use other people than the Public Health Institute in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3753	Just one question completely independent of private or public: do you think that this is a very high level of competence – we are going to train people who are going to be able to do legal genetic services in a safe and secure way – how many such environments does the Minister of Health think we really need in the country? Or will he also go to the EEA to do these services? What does the minister think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3758	There is a broad consensus that more environments are needed in Norway — that means more than one, it may also mean more than two. The most important thing is that one has the quality requirements that are. These are large-volume surveys, and one must have secure communication with the Directorate of Police and Kripos. There are also other demanding judicial investigations carried out elsewhere than in Norway on behalf of the Norwegian police, but this is more exceptional.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3765	It has invested significantly in the environment in Tromsø. It operates with amounts of a couple of $10 million invested in the environment to build up this competence. Does the Council of State consider that it is reasonable to use the funds not to invest in the use of the environment and the competences that are there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3770	Everything is designed to use that environment as long as it is accredited, and if you get in place good and safe communication. But I don't understand that it's going to be used as an argument against also involving other environments that meet the same quality requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3775	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3780	It is true, as some representatives have said, that in a period, 2010/2011, there was a difference of opinion as to whether we need more than one legal genetic environment in Norway. There was a great deal of disagreement in the forensic environments marine, and it was such that it also struck up politically. Then it is not right, as the representative Nesvik says, that no initiative was taken in the budget in 2013 towards the Legal Genetics Centre. In fact, the red-green majority of the Storting in the budgetary process decided to double the budget of the Judicial Genetics Centre and to ask for an investigation to see how to use the total legal genetic resources held in Tromsø and Oslo. That's what Jonas Gahr Støre put down a party-based selection to get to, and it was concluded that in three of four proposed models, the Rechtsgenetic Center was to be inserted as an analyst number two. I think the Minister of Health is a little wrong when he says that there is no consensus on this. This has been supported by the entire forensic and forensic and forensic genetics environment – at least by the vast majority – and I also believe that through the work we have done in the Stortinget, the majority in Stortinget is that the Judicial Genetics Centre in Tromsø should be an environment number two. In that case, it is not a majority that it should only be public – it is not – but that it should be a very central environment, and that if you need more such services, you can supplement it. I'm reacting a little bit to talking about objectivity, and it's really just about ordering some DNA analyses. It's a broad-based academic community we have in Tromsø, which is going to research, which is going to train forensics, and which is going to have a third leg to stand on, which is the practical analytical task. The three things are related in order for us to have the academic environment that we need in Norway to research, train and analyse. I really have to say that I am surprised that the government and the health minister do not see how important it is that this competence is wide and that it is linked. So the Health Minister would like us to have other commercials that need to be accredited. As far as I know, there is only one small environment that is accredited so far – and would like to – but why not understand and understand that you have to bet on this academic environment that we have in Tromsø, and that could be at risk of confusion if it is not taken care of. The government has a responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3794	I don't know if I've expressed myself unclearly, or what's the challenge, but I haven't in any way expressed anything negative about the legal genetic environment in Tromsø and their possibilities and significance. But like others who are going to contribute to this in the police on a larger scale, they need to have a secure communication with the police and Kripos. There's a work that's going on, and we've now got different concepts for which we're going to evaluate. What I'm responding to in the suspension is a note from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV that "it's a general agreement that the RGS should have the national responsibility for research and education in the legal genetic field". I don't think it's been expressed. That they can have a role is something else, but that they can have the national responsibility in this area, I have not understood that there has been a consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3801	The background to this debate is not only the purely professional and academic nature, but also some ethical aspects of the activities that are taking place here. The organisation and membership of the Forensic Institute in Oslo has also been part of the debate and part of the basis for a wanted – call it – environmental number two. There's nothing in the majority position that beats its legs under it. It's important to create a diversity, and there's nothing here that says that the Right Genetics Center in Tromsø is not going to run DNA analyses. This is a debate one has to look over a slightly longer perspective. I still see great opportunities for this business. I think it is good that we benefit and have several environments that challenge each other and also meet the ethical challenges associated with a very demanding and advanced subject area, so that no unfortunate monopolies are created in these activities. It also reinforces the possibility of having private actors. There is also a field where one has cooperation — as the Council of State was in it — with other countries, which conducts some of the most advanced studies and assists Kripos, among others. with it. So I think this is a business that is going to grow in the future, with the digital development we see, and that all the Norwegian environments have a clear opportunity for growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3808	Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3811	I just want to say to the Minister of Health that in 2009, when the Legal Genetics Centre was established, it was widely agreed – it was decided in Stortinget – that the Legal Genetics Centre at the University of Tromsø should have the national responsibility for the education of forensics and for forensic research. The university environments were broad within that decision. I have seen the statements from, among others. Faculty of Law at the University of Bergen. I can't remember any change in that, so if the current government has not decided that it should not be so, it was decided in 2009, when the establishment of the Judicial Genetics Centre, that there should be national responsibility for forensic education and research. And it's been repeated, my acquaintance, in all the budgets then.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3816	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3830	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3837	The Health and Welfare Committee has dealt with the Government's Prop quickly. 16 L, amending the Law of 3 June 1983 No 54 on dental, dental. There is a reason to commend the Committee for flexible and efficient work so that this amendment can be dealt with in the current year and so that the law can take effect from 1 January 2015. The proposals contained in the proposal are part of the follow-up to a decision of the ESA, the EFTA Surveillance Authority for the EEA Agreement. In the light of two complaints, in a decision of 12 March 2014, the ESA has determined that the financing of dental services provided by the county council to adults for payment involves public aid which is incompatible with the EEA Agreement’s State aid rules. The majority of the Committee, consisting of all parties other than the Centre Party and the SV, agree with the Government that the proposed amendments improve the regulatory framework for public dental care in line with the EEA Agreement and that the proposals clarify the county authority's responsibility to ensure that the service is in line with State aid rules. The Committee is unanimous in the amendment of Section 2-2 of the Act, while the Committee's recommendation to amend Sections 1-3 and 5-3 is promoted by the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3848	Without starting a long debate, I would just like to brief you briefly on behalf of the Centre Party and SV on our vote and the reasons for it. The centre party and SV will vote against some of the new proposals, and we do that for two reasons. One is basically related to what we think it is right to accept that the EEA Agreement should be regulated. When Norway entered into the EEA Agreement, it was not a topical issue in the public debate that the agreement should go as far as regulating public welfare services and health services as we now see the agreement does. Our two parties are deeply concerned about a development in which the EEA Agreement intervenes more and more in what we consider to be purely political issues related to the design of the Norwegian welfare state and the Norwegian health services. The second reason is a practical political priority. SV is working to ensure that we gradually have a dental reform that is more likely to involve dental care in the regular health care system, to ensure that there is a self-interest in dental care, and that dental care is more similar to other health services. Such a reform will require price regulation of dental services, and we fear that the recognition that Stortinget is now giving of the relevance of the EEA Agreement in this area can hinder important political improvements in our own dental services in the future. The centre also wants dental care to become a more integral part of public health. Therefore, the Centre Party and the SV will vote against the changes resulting from the ESA decision. That is not all that is contained in this proposal. In practice, this means that the groups of the Centre Party and the SV will vote in favour of proposed amendments to § 2-2 and to the amendment of § 1-3 and to new § 5-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3859	The legislative proposals put forward by Stortinget in this matter are necessary in order to meet Norway’s EEA legal obligations. The proposals deal primarily with the accounting for the various dental services provided by county municipalities to the population. The proposals clarify the county council's responsibility to ensure that the service is provided in line with State aid rules, so that cross-subsidisation of market-based services does not occur. This implies that county municipalities have to keep separate accounts for the different parts of their dental activities. In addition, the legislative proposals clarify the responsibilities of the county council to provide a public dental offer to adults in districts where there is a lack of private service providers. The proposals provide that, in sparsely populated outlying areas, it will continue to be possible for the county to subsidise dental services to adult paying patients. In such areas, the county may decide whether to grant subsidies and, where appropriate, determine their size. However, there must be no overcompensation. Certain criteria will be laid down for the county to pay particular attention when assessing the geographical areas in which subsidised services can be provided. The proposals are designed as powers of attorney. A proposal for a regulation has been under consultation with the legislative proposals and will be adopted as soon as the Storting has adopted the legislative proposals. In other words, the proposals do not prevent the county from continuing to charge the same prices for dental treatment in outlying areas as in central districts. There is therefore no reason to fear a reduced or more expensive public service provision for the population in the districts. On the other hand, in areas with a functioning market for dental services, the county is acting as a normal market player. This part of the activity may not receive public support. The law of the Grand Duchy allows the regulation to be laid down in order to allow for the entry into force of the overall legislation on 1 January 2015. The introduction of separate accounting requirements will be of great benefit to county councils according to the calendar year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3872	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 14, 15 and 16, which are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 9, 10 and 11, are dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3912	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 14–16.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3918	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3926	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to come back with proposals to equalise the income limits for sick pay and parental leave with a lower limit on the payment of social security contributions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e3952	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the reform in order to find a long-term solution for those who experience a reduction in net income from 1 January 2015.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to reverse the tightening of the Law of Permitation from Prop.1 S Appendix 1 [[2013-2014]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to continue the holiday pay entitlement for the beneficiaries of the daily allowance.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e6934	The Committee's position on I and V is the first to be voted on. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e6949	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on III and VIII. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e6963	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on II, IV, VI and VII. The President assumes that these are now unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e6979	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to extend the government’s pension fund with the participation of several main employee associations in the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7601	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to Section II, Section 20, new sixth paragraph, Section 3, paragraph 3. 1st paragraph, V § 5 new third paragraph and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘In Act No 28 July 1949 26 on the State pension fund is amended as follows: Paragraph 20 new sixth paragraph is replaced by the following: The Ministry lays down rules on vesting equivalent to those laid down in Paragraphs 3 to 14 of the Swedish Social Security Act, where the member has a temporary disability pension and a disability pension. In the law of 26 June 1953 no. 11 on a pharmacy pension scheme, etc. It shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7635	Paragraphs 2, 17, 23, 31, 32, 33, fourth paragraph, 37, 38, 44, second paragraph, second sentence, and 46 shall apply. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7649	The remainder of II, III and V as well as I, IV and VI are then added over XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7659	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7669	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7880	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on VI. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7896	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on VIII. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7910	The Committee shall be called upon to give its opinion on the suspension of Clauses 4 to 12, 4 to 14 and 8 to 49, as well as paragraphs 3 and 4 of V and IX. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7924	It shall be counted above point IX(2) which relates to VI and point 5. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7938	It shall be weighed over I, II, III and VII and the rest of IV and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7948	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7958	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7966	During the debate, Mr Wiborg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to give its opinion and, in its own form, to present the issue of the legalisation of the minimum wage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e7997	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for the creation of the Nav Ombudsman according to the model of the Patient and User Ombudsman.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8023	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with an assessment of the establishment of a Nav ombudsman.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8058	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Fredric Holen Bjørdal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the government provides an assessment of the impact on the employment of people with reduced working capacity as a result of the very large volume of foreign labour from the EEA territory.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8086	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up and submit to the Storting a strategy to ensure better employability for people with reduced working capacity and, in this context, to assess the following: Follow up and further develop the youth guarantees for those under 30 years of age. Further develop the ‘Job Strategy for People with Disabilities’. Ensure more customised work in the public sector for people with reduced working capacity. Develop more training programmes, new testing jobs and training options, with emphasis on groups currently out of work, especially people with mental disabilities and people with disabilities. Measures to increase the number of sick messages. Develop more tools that can still support job-linking during the sick pay period and a more active and supportive role for the work and welfare seat in case of sick leave. Measures to strengthen employers' incentives to continue to be associated after the end of the sick pay period. Ensuring a health report without employer a good follow-up from Nav. Lower entry requirements in the AAP scheme than the current 50 per cent requirement for people who have transition from sick pay. Grading of the AAP scheme to replace current curtailment rules. Measures to speed up the clearance of people on the AAP and to assess the appropriateness of a maximum social benefit of four years. A more active follow-up scheme for the recipients of the AAP. Work rights help for people with classified disability benefits. Further develop both fixed-term wage increases and fixed-term wage increases. Ensure that persons are able to carry out good individual follow-up and that management companies have a sound framework.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8166	During the debate, Fredric Holen Bjørdal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the commercialisation of actions within the Nav Clearing and Follow-up Area in order to ensure their competence, to provide safe conditions and stability and to optimise the quality development of actions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8199	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that young people with disabilities be entitled to labour market measures on the same footing as those receiving redundancy benefits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8225	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that every two years young people be given the right to medical assessment through Nav, in order to give them the right to work-oriented measures in better health and safety in line with those receiving redundancy benefits.’ [[20-30 years]] The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8260	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce the right to education, training and/or guidance and employment services within three months for young people under 25 who are not in education or employment. This right shall not replace ordinary study funding.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8286	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked in the forthcoming Lifelong Learning and Exterior Communication to concreteise a new option that gives employers incentives to employ young people under the age of 25 who live in Norway, cf. law on population registration, which is neither under education nor at work, as apprentices.’;» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8322	A total of 46 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from the Torgeir Micaelsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3-20, by Mr Micaelsen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, 21-25, by Mr Micaelsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 26, by Mr Micasen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 27 and 28, by Mr Micaelsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 29-35, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 36 to 39, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 40 to 46, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 40–46, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 40 sounds: «The government is asked to take the necessary measures and supervision to stop gender discrimination in the provision of care services.» Proposal No. 41 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that decisive operational tasks in hospitals, such as cleaning, are maintained as internal operations instead of outsourcing services.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asked to require health establishments to implement the advanced home hospital scheme in all hospitals where possible.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government asks the Oslo University Hospital to double the capacity of advanced home hospitals in order to provide the best possible offer to seriously ill children and their families.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to amend the law on municipal health and care services as soon as possible so that the practice in many municipalities of forcing elderly people in nursing homes to live in double rooms against their will is prohibited.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to impose severe sanctions on municipalities which force elderly people in nursing homes to live in double rooms against their will.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that funds allocated to health centres and school health services under the free income of municipalities go for the purpose, by noting that the framework will be reduced by the amounts that cannot be demonstrated to have gone for the purpose.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8397	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the pharmacy that cover the pharmacies’ cost with prescription management, based on a thorough review of the current system. Proposals to this effect must be included in the notification of medicinal products in 2015 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8414	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36-38, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the closure of daily beds in mental health protection until municipalities have built up their treatment provision.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of a grant scheme that stimulates municipalities to recruit more staff with clinical nutritional competence.’ Proposal No. 38 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the specialist structure of doctors and the organisation of emergency reception facilities are designed in a way that ensures equivalent specialist health services for the population throughout Norway.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8444	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29, 30 and 33–35, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is not asking for the introduction of the neutral VAT system in the country and in health establishments.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the maintenance of today’s hospital pharmacy system as today through the rejection of ESA’s proposal for ‘beneficial decisions’.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asking during spring 2015 for proposals for the Storting to change the rate system for midwives in order to stimulate better recruitment of midwives to the community health service.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that revised guidelines on maternity care will include an early discussion on the way to life during pregnancy.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for action to improve the treatment and follow-up provision of people suffering from incontinence, both in terms of quality of life and financial expenditure related to health status.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8481	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 31 and 32, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 31 sounds ‘The government asks the government to redefine the closure of Rjukan Hospital.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals continue to employ people in permanent positions in line with today’s Working Environment Act to ensure competence and security to address critical conditions in our hospitals.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8506	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to reduce the input-driven funding in hospitals to 40 per cent.’ [[ISF]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8523	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to take the initiative to set up a project to contribute to migration and new health-oriented activity in Rjukan, led by Health South-East.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8543	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an obliging school health promotion plan in the context of the wholesale notification to the primary health service.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8563	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21–25, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure the inclusion of data on hearing and hearing impairment in public health profiles and national public health statistics.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government requests the inclusion of hearing and tinnitus data in HUNT 4.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government, within the revised National Budget 2015, to submit a phase-out plan for the radiation capacity for cancer treatment in Norway.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of a proposal for free rehabilitating options by including all rehabilitation institutions in Free Hospital Choice.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to complete the establishment of a national coal register.’ The vote boards showed that 38 votes were cast for the proposals and 68 votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8596	The sustenance boards are not working. The button doesn't light up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8601	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8613	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4, 6, 8–13 and 15–20, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to provide up-to-date ICT and healthcare quality information during the ageing period, in order to explain progress and launch new measures to achieve the objectives of the Report. St. 9 One resident – one journal and Report. [[2012-2013]] [[2012-2013]] St. 10 Good quality — safe services.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all parts of the specialist health service, including the prehospital services, have access to the national core file.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure increased State investment in drinking water and to provide adequate information to the Government during 2015 on the status and measures taken to achieve the national targets for the drinking water sector, as set out below. ‘Protocol on water and health’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to include, in the context of any submission of a proposal on ‘free treatment’, the arguments of the Health Directorate for and against the introduction of the scheme.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a working group consisting of Haukeland University Hospitals, Regional Health Companies, the Health Directorate and the MS Association, which will work in parallel with the Knowledge Centre to come up with a proposal for a treatment-based research project receiving specific funding from the Stortinget in the revised National Budget for 2015 following the Ipilimumab project.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present an overall plan for the provision of personalised root-cause-correcting medicinal products to children and adults with CF and how to evaluate the effect of treatment and then return to Stortinget with any budgetary implications in the revised national budget for 2015.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for urgent action to be taken by the government to establish a high-security unit for particularly dangerous patients in line with the previous Stortingen legislation in this area.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to reintroduce the clear objectives of increasing the number of employees offered full-time jobs.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that tasks of normal operation are carried out internally in the hospitals, not through the use of cost-effective consultants.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to postpone the decision on the further operation of Hysnes Helsefort until the outcome of the ongoing evaluation is available in mid-2015.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the coordinator function of municipalities for users with high needs and their families in order to ensure close and coordinated follow-up.’ [[(see section 4.4). § 7-2 of the Health and Welfare Act)]] Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a comprehensive overview of the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation services for children and young people in order to improve the basis for decision-making relating to a comprehensive offer for the group.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian municipalities to clarify that people who need the care and care of their luck already have a clear legal right to do so today, and that there is no reason to understand it so that this right is weakened by the government conducting investigations in this area. ‘... Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The budget asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2015 to increase further the allocation of the Centres for Ageing and Hospital Medicine.’ [[SEFAS]] Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy to reduce social health inequalities and to anchor this work in all its relevant health impact assessments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8703	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 7 and 14 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking to ensure that grants for innovation projects in the field of welfare technology and in the context of tomorrow’s care are continued as a national scheme in the Health Directorate.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for free fruit and vegetables to be introduced by the government in the school.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals take the lead in ensuring adequate apprenticeships, both for the health sector and for all other relevant education.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e8732	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In the spring of 2015, the government is asking the Grand Duchy to bring forward a case for the introduction of national requirements for the response of municipalities to infringements of the Alcohol Code and to increase the requirements for the control of municipal funds by municipalities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that during the first six months of 2015 all hospitals provide a coordinator for patients who need complex or long-term and coordinated services.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11178	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11195	It looks as if we have a technical defect in the wetting plant that can take some time to fix. The President proposes that the vote be taken on cases No. 11–16 will be postponed until tomorrow. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11208	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Micasen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 3-5, from Torgeir Micaelsen on behalf of the Workers' Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3-5, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the Free Hospital Choice Scheme to ensure its optimal functioning and patient-friendly as possible.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for pilot projects in some hospitals with concrete targets for waiting time reduction as soon as possible, as well as to assess the funding of the proposals through a defined waiting time table to stimulate smarter organisation in public hospitals.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure an activity growth in the public sector of the specialist health service of at least 12 billion in the treatment of the 2015 government budget. crowns during this ageing period to ensure increased quality and treatment capacity for the benefit of patients.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11243	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the waiting lists of health establishments are properly reviewed and that the patients on the waiting lists are contacted to determine whether the condition has remained unchanged, worsened or whether they have received treatment elsewhere. At the same time, patients shall be given active information on the possibility of shorter waiting times through Free Hospital Choice in cases where appropriate. The government is asked to provide as soon as possible with results from such a quality review of the waiting lists of health establishments.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that healthcare companies find effective ways to follow up patients in advance of agreed hours in order to make optimum use of resources and to benefit patients.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11282	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5 and 6 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that legal genetic engineering tasks continue to be handled by public actors.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to provide the Legal Genetics Centre from 10 to 25 per cent of the necessary analyses.’ [[RGS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11313	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate as soon as possible the provision of DNA analyses for use in criminal justice at the University of UiT Norway’s Judicial Genetics Centre.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Judicial Genetics Centre remains a member of the Arctic University of UiT Norway, so that it becomes an independent professional environment and that the relationship between research, education and practical analytical work is maintained.’ [[RGS]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the development and expansion of today’s ICT technical solutions so that the police/cripos can communicate with two separate providers of legal genetic services – the Public Health Institute/Legal Medicine Institute and the Legal Genetics Centre [[FHI/RMI]] [[RGS]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the mission of the Legal Genetics Centre remains directly under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, with a budget allocation.’ [[RGS]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11432	This is first referred to in Sections 1-3 and 5-3. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11446	Then the rest of the I and the II in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11456	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11465	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11472	In the case of cases No. 14–16, are the second legal proceedings. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-08.ana.ud2036e11512	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
