ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e202	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative of the Central Party and Vice President of Stortinget, Edvard Grimstad, died on April 3rd this year. Edvard Grimstad was born in the Council of Eastfold on 29 March 1933. In his home municipality, he was rapporteur and rapporteur and an important driver of social development at the place of residence. This commitment he maintained throughout his life, even long after he became a rich politician and an important voice here on the Storting. Edvard Grimstad's long line of trust in Norwegian politics and organisational life has been important in many ways. He was elected to the Stortinget in 1989 and represented Eastfold for eight years, until 1997. At Stortinget he held a number of positions in various committees, including: the Defence Committee and the Justice Committee. From 1993 to 1997, he was vice president of the Stortinget. Edvard Grimstad was one of the bautaene in Norwegian politics. He belonged to the range of trustees who have contributed knowledge and wisdom to society through experience and practical approach to the great lines of Norwegian policy, a kind of quality many today demand. In the Center Party, his descendants say that Edvard Grimstad, by virtue of his commitment and his wisdom, has left behind traces that have shaped Norway in the best possible sense. It's a great certificate to bring. Even though the biggest issues he dealt with happened at Stortinget, those who knew him well, believe that it is wrong to point this out as the most important thing for Edvard Grimstad. Trustees in the Center Party say that the home state of Eastfold and Edvard Grimstad was one and the same in many respects. He traveled a lot around municipalities and towns in his home country. An acquaintance of Grimstad from Rakkestad told of the many times he came to the village, either as a state politician, a big man, or as a countyman. He did not come to throw shine or sank voices. He came to listen. And what he heard, he took with him. He was your ombudsman, whether you were big or small. The fact that he was in the home state of Eastfold when he left as a staging representative did not surprise anyone. Edvard Grimstad concluded his strong commitment to the close things where it all started. He was a countyman for five years, and the home state has a lot to thank him for. Edvard Grimstad was a politician with a great heart. When, as a young man in the 1960s, he traveled to Kenya with his wife, Lene, he was given further vision. The experiences and lessons imprinted on him for the rest of his life, and the love of Africa gave him an extra dimension. Here in Stortinget we have a lot to thank Edvard Grimstad for, and we would like to thank his entire family – first of all for sharing a dear husband and father with the nation's national assembly. We bring peace to Edvard Grimstad's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e230	The representative Kenneth Svendsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Thore Vestby For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen For Eastfold County: Fredrik Björnebeck The Workers' Group has been informed that the representative Jens Stoltenberg will leave the Stortinget from 16 June 2014 to prepare the mission as Secretary-General of NATO. This communication shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Truls Wickholm, has taken office as a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e267	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e281	For the sake of order, I think the committee has suggested that we deal with the first two issues together. Because they're connected. I'll explain it in my short article. Let me first thank you for an effective and good cooperation within the Judicial Committee during the preparation, implementation and examination of these matters, which are unanimous positions towards the Stortinget. As I said, that applies to two things. The first is the accession of the London Agreement of 17 October 2000 on the grant of European patents. Case No. 2 concerns the related legislative changes in the Norwegian Patent Act, so that the Committee considered it natural to deal with these two together in this Chamber today. The Committee summarises these issues in such a way that the framework conditions for innovative activities in Norway will be improved, and the Committee therefore delivers unanimous opinions on both of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e290	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e304	The President understands it so that case No. 2 is also the final debate. For the sake of order, the President asks if there is anyone who wants to speak on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox - It's not. In that case, both case No. Case No. 1 and Case No. 2 as a final debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e318	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e325	The Committee has examined a proposal from workers’ party representatives to make the use of children’s homes compulsory and to strengthen children’s homes. First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the work on this important matter. It is gratifying to experience that there is an overall committee dedicated to strengthening children's homes and contributing to making the use of children's homes compulsory. Where the majority of the Committee separates the Workers' Party from the Centre Party, the age limit for making the use of children's housing compulsory. The majority will make use of children's homes compulsory for children under 16, while the Workers' Party and the Centre will make use of children's homes compulsory for children under 18, and I expect them to come back to that. There has also been a strong historical consensus about the political effort to strengthen the legal certainty of children and young people who have been subjected to violence and abuse or have witnessed such. This joint commitment resulted in the creation of the first children’s home in 2007, and today there are ten children’s homes around the country. The main objective of the establishment of children’s housing is to strengthen the legal certainty of the child. There is also a clear and sincere commitment by the government in this matter. It is made clear both in the letter of reply from the Minister of Justice to the Committee in connection with the examination of the proposal for a representative and in an inter-pelling debate on the subject in winter. Violence and sexual assault are serious crimes that can have serious and long-lasting consequences for vulnerable children. Therefore, it is important that these types of cases are taken seriously and treated as closely as possible from the point of view of origin, no matter where in the country where the child is located. National figures from children’s homes show that the average time of interrogation for sexual assault is 52 days, which is 38 days longer than the statutory deadline. It is not difficult to understand how stressful it is for children who have experienced such events. There is an overall committee which is committed to reducing the waiting time for judicial hearings. There are good examples in the process that show that if the police are betting on these kinds of issues, so are the results. Own judicial hearing coordinators are an example of this. Another important aspect is the presence of the Judge in the hearing. In order to ensure that the hearings can be conducted more efficiently and as quickly as necessary, the Committee wishes the responsibility for the hearings to be transferred to the police. In such a case, the presence of a judge would no longer be necessary for the conduct of the hearing. Children’s homes have established good procedures and have become incredibly good at facilitating the hearings, and they have also established good procedures to care for the children at risk of violence and to guide the assistance system around the children. There is an overall committee that supports the job done by children's homes. There is therefore a clear expectation from Stortinget that priority should be given to the state children’s home and that the conditions should be facilitated by all parties in order to reduce the waiting time from notification to interrogation in the course of this process. But in any case, the most important thing to succeed in bringing down the waiting time for a court hearing is that the police prioritise the investigation of violence and abuse against children, and that the police prioritise the use of their trained referees for this type of case. Then why does the majority set the limit at 16 years? Indeed, for the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, it has been important to ensure that for the most vulnerable children, judicial hearings are conducted within the deadline. We also strongly support the report presented to the government in 2012 following the evaluation of the State Children's House. The children's houses have a great deal of stuff. The children’s home in Oslo had an increase of 62 p.m. in the first three months of 2014. compared to the same period in 2013. This is a tendency that is equal throughout the country. This suggests that it is necessary to strengthen the capacity of the State Children’s House. I also feel that it is right to say, although not so much has been mentioned in the written comments, that children’s homes apply not only to children at risk of violence but also to those with mental retardation – what has been commented on here about children, of course, also to those with mental retardation. I am pleased that today, through this treatment, we have put in place a clear prioritisation of these kinds of issues. Our children shall we do all we can to protect them, and to ensure that those who experience being subjected to, or witness, violence or sexual assault are taken seriously and followed up as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e357	I would like to start by thanking the President-in-Office for a good contribution on behalf of the Committee, and I would like to thank all the parties in the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter. As a leader of the Labour Party's selection against power in close relations, I am very happy that we have managed to get the government party a good deal on the road when it comes to making the use of children's houses compulsory for children. There is a good deal on the road when it comes to strengthening children's legal certainty. But it's disappointing that one doesn't want this to apply to all children. I must also say that I am somewhat critical of the wording of the majority in its proposal for a decision, which is as follows: ‘The government requests that children’s houses be used by the government in judicial hearings for children under the age of 16 who have been subjected to violence or abuse, or are witnesses to such cases, where this is best for the child.’ Who should evaluate it? Today we know that in too many cases, the child is not assessed for the best benefit at travel distance. Studies show that these assessments are for the adults and not the child, and that they are far from being experienced by those who follow the children. I'm afraid that by having the formulation proposed by the majority, we're not going to achieve what the Labour Party, like UNICEF, and which the Children's Office is occupied with, is simply to ensure that all children have the right to use children's homes. We know it costs money to use the children's houses for the police and for the courts. I am concerned that this affects the best judgment of children in the courts and the police districts. Therefore, our proposal to make use mandatory for all children under 18 years of age is very important and a much better proposal. This must also be seen in the context of the proposal by both us and the government to strengthen the capacity of children's homes. Children's homes do much more for children who are under election and abuse than for those who are under the right. Today, with the majority's proposal for a decision, children's homes will not be served by elephants in the youth school. I mean, I'm too bad. We did not think it would be appropriate for the individual location to consider whether a 16-year-old, who may have had his or her entire childhood filled with power and assault, should be entitled to supply at the nearest children's home. I think that's what this youth is going to do. Once again, the Labour Party is attempting to meet the wishes of a co-consultant from the Judicial Committee during the examination of the decision on election in close relations from last year, to adopt the planned scope study to which the government has removed the funds from last year. The fact that the majority are still giving priority to knowledge in this area means that there is a risk that measures will be taken against unscrupulous children who are not sure enough. When we know how important it is for a broader and better research in this area to find the best and most accurate measures, it is a pity that the government party with its cooperation party is not able to find money for this either this time. In the light of large sums of tax-free and suspension engines, it says a little about the priority. Finally, despite the criticism, I would like to stress that I am pleased that the Labour Party proposal has led us to gather on important measures. We are certain that the capacity of children’s homes needs to be strengthened, and we are certain that we need a government handout to provide more people with the right skills to carry out important medical examinations of children. At the same time, I am disappointed that it seems that the government party has stretched as far as they have felt they had to, but that they would not take the necessary steps to keep all children subject to violence and violence. I had hoped that we had received a decision today that would secure all children under the age of 18 – because that is what is the definition of children in Norway – compulsory use of children’s homes. We don't get that, but I'm glad we've come a good way. I take up the Labour Party's proposal in substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e384	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e387	Children’s homes have been an important contributor to ensuring a good follow-up of children who are suspected of being exposed to crime. Studies show that children interrogated in children’s homes experience this as better and more gentle than traditional police interrogations. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Justice has given such clear signals from this pulpit that this area should be given priority. The latter is important in order to fulfil the purpose of children’s homes. Children shall be heard promptly and taken care of in a professional and prudent manner. In the past, it has been up to the judges to decide whether children’s homes should be used, and this has led to different practices in different parts of the country. I think that's unfortunate, and it's therefore positive that the majority is now going in to make children's homes compulsory for children under 16. For children between 16 and 18 years of age, there will often be large individual differences in development and thus also differences in the types of listening techniques that are appropriate. I therefore believe that it is the right solution to go in order to make an assessment of what is best for the child in each specific case. This decision is a strong signal that the Stortinge prioritises the best interests of children and victims to a greater extent than in the past. We have seen such developments under the current government, among other things. by removing the limitation period for serious infringements. I hope that the Storting continues to stand behind the government's policy on a bet on the victims of abuse and not just a one-sided bet on the rehabilitation of criminals, as we saw the trend under the red-green government. It's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. And there's no contrast between good rehabilitation on the one hand and worthy care of the victims of violence on the other. The size here makes clear demands on the government, and I think the majority has managed to work out good and necessary solutions. It is urgent to put in place a regulation for children’s homes, and it is obvious that capacity should be strengthened. Unlike the red-greens, the majority want to keep the police as questioning officer. I think that is absolutely necessary to ensure adequate professional competence. There are also several instances that have pointed this out. I'm sure the government manages the decisions we make here today, in a good way, and is pleased that the Minister of Justice has a strong personal commitment to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e400	I would also like to start by thanking the President-in-Office, for very good cooperation and good work which has ended with a very good attitude, the Committee on the basis laid down, the Labour Party for representatives' proposals, and not least the representative, Mrs Wagzlid, for good work to achieve what we have achieved today. There has been a long and good process in which many parties and a lengthy work in Stortinget have made the children's houses better. Today, we are taking important steps further. During this period we have also had a good interpellation debate, where the Minister of Justice was offensive and the government parties were alerting, and it is followed up by the decision that we are making today. We were in for a long wait. It has fallen, but unfortunately is still too long before children are questioned, and it is a challenge to legal certainty. We were committed to strengthening our skills and conducting several medical examinations. The Minister of Justice met us, and today we are following up in the Grand Duchy with further measures to strengthen the work on the legal security of children. That's why we in the Christian People's Party are happy that we can adopt what we do. And to the representative of Vågslid, who is concerned about the wording that children's homes should become mandatory for children under the age of 16, where it is for the best for the child, at least I would stress that the representative can take it completely calmly, because this is only because in some cases it is actually that it will be better for children to be interrogated in another way. But I assume that the assessment is made in good dialogue between the children's home and the police. So I'm not worried at all. As regards the concern of children between 16 and 18 years of age, it is also very clear that the general rule is that interviews should be conducted in children’s homes. That's why I assume that it's done as much as possible. But it is also a matter of priority. Knowing that there are capacity challenges at the children's homes, at least from the Christian People's Party we thought it was important to give priority to them under the age of 16, and then step it up. I would also say that a significant difference between them under 16 and those over 16 is that when one is over 16, one can be called a witness to the trial. Therefore, it is all the more important that they under the age of 16 carry out a good interview at the children’s home. Then we are also pleased that the Committee is unanimous in its desire to strengthen its capacity. As the rapporteur pointed out, we already received a notice in the hearing that only the first three months had an increase of 62 p.m. in the children's home in Oslo. – a huge increase in things. It is positive in the sense that children’s homes are being used, but it is also a challenge that there are so many children affected by such serious abuse. It also shows that we need to strengthen our capacity for prevention, so that we can avoid going that far. Then we in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the regulation on questioning of particularly vulnerable persons will come as soon as possible. It has not been very long, but it has been a year now. We have attached some assumptions to the regulation that are also important. As for the age limit, we know that the evaluation actually said it should be reduced to 15 years, but we have chosen 16 years. Something else is going to take judges out of the court hearings. It might be a little bit strange, but we're doing it to make time use more efficient and shorter. Feedback from justice, the police and children’s homes is clear that this is a good measure. The police will be responsible, and one will then be able to cut down on one of the joints that you have to enter. This also applies to the regulation. The final point, which is also important, concerns the competence of medical examinations, ensuring that adequate doctors are trained with the necessary skills. But I would also like to stress that for the Christian People's Party, it is important that more medical examinations are carried out. We know that it is only implemented for approx. one out of five, and the feedback from children’s homes is that when a medical examination is carried out, it is also often found that one did not necessarily get it in the hearings. It's also an important feedback. That is why I hope that we can implement several of them. We are pleased that the Storting makes these decisions, and that across the party boundaries, we can agree on important points. But as the rapporteur said, it is also a matter of priority for the police. We see that there is a difference between the police districts. Now at least we are giving more tools, we are giving more resources, and then we are asking the Minister of Justice in his contact with police officers and with the police director to ensure that police districts actually give more priority to the legal security of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e421	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Labour Party for the fact that the proposal has been put forward in the Stortinget. The establishment of children's houses was an important grip the red-green government did in the field of justice policy. Rarely has an established offer that has been met with so much positive mention. Of course, there may be some skepticism and problems in the drive-in phase, but this is the case with new things. When you travel around and visit children's homes today, experiences are almost inconclusively positive. The most important thing is that the scheme works for those she is seen to take care of, namely the young. People who have been subjected to criminal acts need to be taken seriously and taken care of in the best possible way. In children’s homes, young people and the developing world can receive a holistic follow-up. They meet an arranged and planned arrangement from the time they enter the door, even before they enter the door. One aspect I also want to include in the debate is the structure of children's homes. It's important that we in the future make sure that the distance to children's homes is as short as possible, so that it doesn't hinder their use. One of the last children's houses that was opened is in Ålesund. We should consider opening more, other places; at the same time, we need to make sure that the professional environment does not become too small. This is a balance. So to the concrete proposals: the centre party, together with the Labour Party, makes several important and forward-looking proposals in this matter. First of all, we're busy making the use of children's homes mandatory. It shall not be for a judge to assess which of the right is to be executed; the main rule shall be children's houses. Technical assistive technology enabling police, judge or defender resource questions to be unapplied. They may follow via video links to a greater extent than before. For those kids who have to be removed from children's homes, it's usually just a matter of once in a lifetime. In this case, consideration for optimal treatment must be given to other considerations. The most important thing is that the information presented in the out-of-court hearing is correct, that it is not affected by external circumstances, and that the situation around the out-of-court hearing is not known to be a traumatic experience for assaulted young people. In addition, we suggest that one should be able to open up in order to ensure that non-police experts can also be heard. This means I'm very forward-looking. The police work force will be more composed in the next few years. New professionals will be an important part, including the investigative apparatus. It is important to have specific competences about young people and how to talk to them, in addition to knowledge of investigation, criminal law and criminal proceedings. Then I think it is unfortunate that the police outlaws have a monopoly on this. In e.g. Oslo police districts have seen the lack of deputies in recent years be so great that the waiting time has been very long. Let me end by saying, the children's houses are here to stay. They will benefit in the future even more. They ensure coordination of research and further action from child protection, health services, schools and kindergartens, and look at the young in the centre. This is a major step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e442	First of all, I would also like to thank the proposers for bringing up this proposal, and the Committee for a clear consensus on important progress. It was the SV representatives Inga Marte Thorkildsen and May Hansen who ten years ago, in fact, suggested establishing own children's homes in Norway. In the ten years that have passed, we – if I am not completely wrong – have had ten children's houses all over Norway. The children's houses have been shown to be very successful. A referee, medical examination and follow-up are carried out in one and the same location. There is a knowledge and competence about the abuses being done against children, in many different disciplines, so that staff can actually provide advice and guidance. Children who are exposed to or testify to power or sexual authority get a place to turn to, and get to deal with people with child-care skills. It gives children more security in an extremely difficult situation, and it also ensures that those who are being executed are more valuable for the investigation. Summary: I think you have to say that children's homes represent a great advance in their legal security and justice in Norway. That is why there is also a very important progress we are making today, I think, when the Storting agrees that there will be a bill to make the use of children's homes compulsory. That's what I think is important and worth stopping by. At the same time, it's a pity that there won't be a right that applies to all children. I think – if we think about it – that if one had discussed dishes in the event of a serious assault on the crops, we would have had difficulty accepting that it would not apply to all the crops, only if someone judged that it was for our own good. I am aware that there will be differences in assessments, but there should be a right, it should apply to all children. The most important challenge we face in the years that come – to make it a real right – is to have the capacity and competence to actually put it into practice. Capacity, the existence of capacity in children’s homes throughout the country that is sufficient to carry this out, and competence, not least that the necessary medical expertise is being developed and established, will be very decisive for the feasibility of carrying out the necessary health investigations when appropriate, and for the priorities that the police are required to do. I hope to get the right justice minister to clarify that one of the issues of child abuse, which we are talking about here, will be given a clear message of priority in the work – it concerns police, prosecution, etc. - from the Minister of Justice. I heard the representative from the Christian People's Party, among others. say he's not worried about the further follow-up here. I'm a little bit more concerned, because we now know that there's a very serious situation, with a very large number of children who don't get the needs they have in such a situation, covered. I understand, however, that it would be necessary to make a priority when the capacity is not there. The most important priority will be to give all children the priority of the next few years over other considerations, when they are to present their budgets and make further assessments, so that they can be fulfilled by all children. Finally, I would like to mention that this also applies to mentally retarded adults, as the case spokesperson said in his speech – which we were pleased with. SV provides several suggestions to ensure that the texts currently adopted are actually included in the text, so that there is an explicit agreement on that from the Storing page. I take up the suggestions submitted by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e461	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e464	Let me also thank the proposers for putting further pressure on an extremely important political topic. I would also like to thank the Committee, and in particular the rapporteur, for an excellent piece of work, which has led it to gather on important principles in the matter that the Stortinget is dealing with today. There are many reflected and good committee comments and contributions from today's Chamber. The proposers ask the government to promote legislative proposals, inter alia. on the compulsory use of children’s home in the hearing of children under 18 years of age. I see that the Committee in its position recommends that the use of children's homes be made compulsory by the hearing of children up to 16 years of age, where this is for the best for the child. I have registered that several have been having problems with that question from the pulpit today. I believe that the representative Ropstad is concerned with what is the point – this will be a real assessment based on what is best for the child. It's important that we don't make a set of rules that actually prevent the child's best being founded. In contrast to the representative, I have confidence in the assessments that are made then, and if that, against assumption, would end up in such a way that those assessments are not reliable enough, we will have to address that issue again. We have a situation today where the vast majority of child questionings are conducted in children’s homes, but there may be some cases where it is better for the child to have the interview in other contexts. Several members of the working group were led by Ole B. Severud, the Säverud committee, which is also referred to in the setting. He was assigned to investigate and propose changes to the legislation on child questioning and mental retardation, as well as other particularly vulnerable persons. He and the working group suggested that children's homes should be made compulsory for children under the age of 15 to be interrogated as insulted. Now the Storting decides in practice 16 years. The reason for and the background to the age limit proposed by the Säverud Committee in its time is also worth bringing with it, because in that case they have analysed the change in abuse patterns for children over and under 15 years of age. There are also some differences that it is possible to incorporate into the further discussion on these issues. With regard to the capacity of children’s homes, several have addressed this as a major challenge. The waiting time is unacceptable and has been for a long time, completely independent of government. It's a huge challenge. We have already launched a series of measures to help improve the processing capacity, and the Police Directorate has, on my notice in the first round, initiated what I call a national effort to do something about this in the short and long term. They have presented a concrete action plan to reduce the waiting time. We need to see results according to that plan already at the turn of the year. At the same time, the Police Directorate shall draw up a long-term plan to ensure that the resources for interrogation are used properly in the future. It may be that many in the police have the relevant capacity or education, but very often they are put to other types of work, for many different reasons. The fact that we now have good access to additional training places at the Police College in this area is an important premise to ensure that the police have enough people with the relevant competence to conduct these hearings. The Committee – and the proposers – then made it clear to ask ‘the government addressed the need for more doctors with social pediatric competence’. It's an obvious challenge, and I'm behind the clear call. I have been informed that the Minister of Health and Welfare will give the Directorate of Health the task of assessing how social pediatric competence can best be ensured in the future. It is important to have knowledge of this field. I have recorded that the opposition has spent some time criticising the non-implementation of a research project. I would like to stress that we recently received a research report from the NKVTS National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, which provided a national study on violence in close relationships, which also focused on childhood violence. That report shows that there are major challenges for us. This is a political area that I'm very concerned with solving better, and I'm very pleased with the marriage commitment that very many of the members of the committee show, both inside and outside this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e494	I would like to thank you for a good contribution and for a good cooperation in the matter. There are actually two challenges to the Council of State. One goes on the prescription and how long it will take it to get in place. I know that there is a lot of work, and that at least some of the things that the Council of State has been involved in before, that he has thoughts about, perhaps even requires additional consultation if there are to be changes. The other thing goes on the capacity. We know, as I was talking about, that it was 62 pst. increase in Oslo in the first three months, and we have similar numbers from the other children's homes. So I'm going to challenge the government council on how he thinks, and he's making sure that there's enough capacity in the children's houses for the current year as well. One thing is next year's budget, which we are clear that we want to strengthen, but what does he think of the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e503	Work on the regulation is in full swing. But it is true, as the representative Ropstad said – and as I have also said in the Stortinget earlier – that the hearing showed a very strong disagreement about the proposals in the hearing. That means we have to spend a little longer time than I wish we did. We have a very strong focus on getting this regulation in place as soon as possible. But this may mean that you need to have a partial consultation on some new proposals that are coming. Therefore, I do not dare to set a deadline for this work, but I want to make sure that we have high pressure. With regard to capacity in the current year, the Police Directorate has now identified the capacity available and has put in a job that will now intensify the job of reducing the waiting time for the children. I expect that we will see rapid results of this, and that by the end of the year we will see a decline in waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e510	For the Workers' Party, as they have probably heard in the posts, it is important to ensure that all children are provided with the use of children's homes. As the representative from SV said, I don't think we would have had this discussion about the age limit if it was about growing up. I'm skeptical about opening up exemptions for the use of children's homes, as is actually the proposal from the majority today. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: who is it that should actually consider when the use of children's homes is for the benefit of the child? Are they the ones who do it today, the police and the courts? Is that supposed to be a children's house? How does this proposal improve young people if an assessment is to be added before deciding whether to provide the child at the children’s home – which is quite a lot of research is the best available?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e517	In today's system, the judge will decide what is best for the child. It is a legal standard to which the Court of Justice must deal. I fully agree with the representative Awake! that the very best thing for the child in most cases will be the use of children's homes. There may be some cases where the child’s best interests would be different, such as: if they are closely related to the local police office — that type of relationship — or that the travel distance is very large. It could be a witness interview instead of a victim interview. There are many types of assessments that need to be taken. However, the assessment should always be based on the best interests of the child. I trust that that assessment will be sound and good. As I mentioned in my post: If we feel that this is not the case, I believe we need to address this again. Then I also understand the challenge of this with all children. But the main rule today, including for those between 16 and 18 years of age, will be that they will be offered to be interviewed in children's homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e528	I thank you for your answer. I also notice that the Justice Minister says that if this isn't good enough, he will come back to it. I really appreciate that. The LIBE report includes, inter alia: show that it is the adults – the actors who are going to follow the young – who experience travel distances as problematic. It is not considered a good argument. Now the council said a little about it, but I want to challenge him a little further on it. In what case does the Council of State see, in spite of the documentation and the research we have on the use of children's homes, that it would not be best for the child to use children's homes? Just to mention it: I'm worried that I don't want us to give the people who are going to assess this, and the police, the possibility of not using the children's houses, when that's what we think is the best thing for deputies of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e535	I mentioned some examples in my previous reply to the representative. It is difficult to give a very specific answer, because it has to be assessed in the specific cases, which are very different in character. But I want to be very clear both to the representative and in this room that it is not a relevant factor in the child's best assessment which is best for adults. There is a legal standard on what to consider in the best-in-class concept of children. It's children's best to lay the groundwork. It means that whether adults find it uncomfortable to travel far is not a relevant argument. That it costs more money to travel to the children's houses is not a relevant argument. So it's a real and actual child's best estimate. Then I am absolutely convinced that both from my point of view and from the stand of the representative, Vågslid, this will be followed closely. Of course, if we observe a practice that is not within the framework that we believe is right, we will have to change the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e544	Within most fields, good knowledge is likely to be decisive in carrying out targeted work that produces results. Together with the Workers' Party, we in the Centre Party point to the need for just more knowledge about the children's home and the helpers around the children are working on it. In the Committee's comments, we say that: ‘It is very unfortunate that the government chose to remove the funds allocated to the planned scope study on violence and child abuse’. [[...]] My question is, what would my Council of State have been the advantage of having this planned scope study carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e556	As the representative of Klinge is certainly familiar with, this grant scheme is not under my constitutional responsibility, but under the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. In general, I think it is important that we have knowledge in this area. A number of measures have already been taken to improve knowledge. I showed in my post instead of the NKVTS scope study, which provides important contributions and knowledge of violence and abuse, including against children. I think we'll always be in a situation where we have to seek to get even more and better knowledge about a very serious and taboo topic – in order to be able to design the instruments in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e563	One of the plural proposals from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which are now ready to be accepted, reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that hearings of children under the age of 16 who have been subjected to violence or abuse, or are witnesses to such cases, are conducted by the police.’ Since this will be a part of the legal work that is now coming, I just want to make sure that one with the wording «led by the police» means special trained police officers with the necessary competence for this task. Does the Minister of Justice agree with me in such an understanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e573	I have understood the majority proposal in the same direction as the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e579	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e584	First, I would like to thank the Justice Committee. I am glad that the matter has moved in the right direction, and that it is a great commitment to an incredibly important matter. For most of us, home is the safest place we have, but for too many children it is the most dangerous place they know – children who experience care failure, violence, insecurity and fear in their own home. The violence that happens within the four walls of the house is in many ways a double offense, because it happens at home – a place we all expect to be safe. In the last period, I was so lucky to be allowed to sit on the Justice Committee. One of the first things I did then was travel and visit the support centre against incest and sexual assault on Gjøvik. It was a cold winter day, but inside I was met by wonderfully warm people. They had horrible stories to tell. One of the ladies told me that she had been assaulted when she was a child, but she had forced it. Through the growth she had struggled with anxiety and depression. It was only in adulthood that she realized what had happened to her. It was only at adult age that she could begin to process it to get healthy. She got help at last, but think of everything she went through, and think of all the time that went on – completely in vain. Fortunately, more people get help and follow-up right away. There are many more people who report, we have gained much more knowledge, and we have had children’s homes – much thanks to the red-green government, which established the first children’s home and since then established many more. Although this good offer is available, not all children receive the offer. That is why the Workers' Party has made proposals today to make children's homes compulsory. I'm glad we're taking some steps in the right direction, but I think it's serious that the majority in this room will discriminate against children, because that's what you do when you set an age limit of 16. I heard the representative Olsen from the Progress Party say that this was the right solution. I disagree. I had at least hope that the majority would express an ambition that you would go on here. I am therefore pleased that the representative, Ropstad, expressed an ambition to step forward. Then I have to say that knowledge is important. If we're going to be able to do the right things, we need to have a good factual basis. I therefore think it is a pity that the proposal for a wide-ranging study of children at risk of violence is once again being voted down. There is something serious wrong with the priorities of the majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e599	It is an important matter The Stortinget has to deal with today. There is cross-political agreement on the importance of strengthening children's homes, and there are many who need credit for getting where you've come from. This is important, and it also suggests that a single judicial committee in a number of areas fully agrees. Let me first of all be allowed to give real commendation to the case rapporteur, Margunn Ebbesen – not only for having resolved the matter through the committee, but also for having shown a genuine commitment to the matter. After clearly having traveled around, had countless meetings, sat down really well into the matter and talked to a lot of professionals and many who are affected by this proposal, Margunn Ebbesen has done a great job as the case-rapporteur for whom there is great respect. That is why I would like to commend the rapporteur for a genuine commitment to a very important matter. I registered that the Labour Party would like us to go further than we do today. Let me first say that we are going very far with the decisions that Stortinget makes today. However, I recorded that the spokesperson in the Workers' Party, Lene Vågslid, said it was particularly sad that the Right-Fremskrit party government did not propose an increase in funds for the children's homes in the revised – that the budgets were not strengthened in order to move forward. It's a good thing to criticise it. I believe that the government has promoted a very good budget for justice for the current period that makes it possible to take this further. But the criticism becomes a little strange all the time the revised budget is going to be dealt with first Friday and the Labour Party, which presents the criticism, has not proposed a single additional crown to the children's houses in the revised budget. One cannot come and criticise the government when one chooses not to propose increased funds for this action. I assume – when the Labour Party is going to join the framework of the government's draft budget, also in the revised – that you are satisfied with the level of commitment. I thank you for that support. We now extend to the mandatory limit at 16 years of age as long as it is at the best of the child. This is an important signal. You can adopt 18 years of age, but the challenge is, of course, resources – resources are limited. Then there's something that at least in my head is very clear: then I think it's important to give the least priority to the oldest children. In addition, research is not unique. There are quite a number of professionals who have a slightly different view of where this limit is going to go. Both the Minister of Justice and the rapporteur of the case have explained this in a good way from the professional reports available. Today, an overall committee and an overall pool are doing a good job in most areas to strengthen children's homes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e610	The use of children’s homes in interrogations and investigations of children exposed to violence and abuse has strengthened the legal certainty of children. The Stoltenberg II government established the first children’s home in 2007. Today, there are ten children’s homes around the country, where children and young people who have been subjected to violence or sexual assault receive a comprehensive and multidisciplinary offer. All the bodies responsible for assisting during interrogation and investigation cooperate here for the best interests of the child. Nine Labour Party representatives are behind the proposal for a bill proposing a change to make the use of children’s homes compulsory for children under 18 years of age and proposing to strengthen the capacity of children’s homes. We, who have engaged in this, represent different committees and disciplines at Stortinget, but we all have a strong commitment to this very matter. It is a major challenge that some courts do not use children’s homes. With today's system, it is up to the individual right of object to decide where the child is to be interrogated. This weakens the legal certainty of the most vulnerable in our society. It was the police chief in Tromsø Ole Bredrup Säeverud who in 2012 chaired a working group that reviewed the law on child questioning and observation and mental retardation. This report sets out proposals for a new regulation on the questioning of particularly vulnerable persons and several legislative changes. An evaluation report on the children’s homes, which was handed over to the Ministry of Justice and Defence in the autumn of 2012, shows that only 69 pst. of all court hearings conducted the previous year were conducted in a children’s home. For me who comes from Troms, it's good to know that our police district is coming out much better, with 80-90 pst. of the hearings added to the children's house in Tromsø. I am also pleased that Tromsø has the shortest waiting time from the case has been reported, until questioning of the child is carried out. This has a lot to do with the fact that we have a police officer in exactly Ole B. Severud who has so much involvement in the work to prevent violence and abuse against children. This evaluation also shows that children’s homes have an even higher level of professional competence and that children in questioning are better cared for than with previous practices. Experience shows that children are well cared for when they come to the children's home. Violence and sexual assault are among the most serious crimes committed, and there is no doubt that it has long-standing and very serious consequences for children who are exposed to it. It is therefore important that both police and auxiliaries assist children and their families in a good way when abuse occurs. The competence of health professionals also needs to be strengthened so that they can study children, and children’s homes and all their competences must now be able to make even better efforts across the country. I'm going to lay the foundations and expect the government to make sure that that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e631	I'm very pleased with the broad commitment that has come to light in this debate. It also shows that proposals that were initially innovative and radical, such as the idea of having children's homes, can gain broad support after a while. I have some reflections about moments that have emerged during the debate today, particularly relating to the distinction between 16 and 18 years of age. I note that the first speaker from the Progress Party went a long way in bringing forward a developmental distinction between those who are 16 and those who are 18 years old, which means that their cases should be evaluated and treated differently. The representative, Leirstein, also said in his statement that he saw that there were professional reasons why a cage had a distinction between the cases up to 16 years old and those over 16 years old, while the representative, Ropstad, drew up the capacity of the children's houses and that one could be called as a witness to the case, as a basis for this distinction. I want to say that I think it would have been a clear advantage for the case as much as for the representatives and the parties that think that one should create that kind of distinction in age, had a more stringent argument when one does something as unusual as making a completely separate definition of what it means to be a child in Norway. We in the Workers' Party at least take a strong distance from this distinction, both in principle and in practice. I think no part of that argument is asking. When it comes to children under the age of 16, we cannot see that there are valid arguments that relate to what is best for the child, which will not mean that a user is a child. Such examples of assessments relate to what is best for the child, nor can I see that they have emerged during the debate. The council itself pointed out in its article to research in the field of NKVTS, not least when he responded to the reference from Lene Waogslid that a non-priority study of children has taken place. The research the Council of State refers to is a research carried out among adults, not among children. People under the age of 18 were not the respondents in the investigation to which he refers. It illustrates the importance of providing up-to-date information on the extent of choice against children. The report to which the Council of State refers is a start, but he is not enough, nor is he particularly relevant to the matter that we are dealing with today. Finally, to the representative of Leirstein, it's a little funny to blame because we haven't put money into the scope study. There is considerable evidence that money was put into it in the 2014 budget from our previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e646	I fully support the representative, Mr. Leirstein,'s praise from the case-speaker both in the case of commitment and that she has looked into the matter carefully. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same about the representative, Leirstein, because when he refers to my post, I expected that he had listened a little better. That is why I am going to repeat my criticism. My criticism, which I put in a light of tax-free and hanging engines, is not about children's houses. It's about the scope study. I think this is the fourth debate where I deal with the topic of scope research, and it bothers me that it doesn't yet seem to have seen that we think that the funds that the government has removed should have found room to find out. That's 3.5 million. kr. Then I shouldn't draw up all the other priorities, because it's a very honest thing to use money in another way, but if the representative of Leirstein is to criticise – and we are to do that when we disagree with each other – I expect him to hear better after the next time. I would also like to say, when it comes to the NKVTS report to which the Minister of Justice refers, that I think he is very good. He is very important, and I fully support the Minister of Justice. I just mean that it's not the same thing as what was in the planned scope study. There I would like to refer to Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Solvency Horne, who was here in Stortinget a couple of weeks ago and that the government was now going to work across the department with theme chosen in close relations. Then I will only once encourage the Minister of Justice to take this with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. That's 3.5 million. kr and a survey requested from many. At the end of the debate, I would just like to mention that the Labour Party supports the SV's proposals when it comes to the fact that this must also apply to those who are disadvantaged. There are quite a few of us. I have visited many children's houses, and especially the children's house in Ålesund said one thing to me that I thought is important to remember. They have a slogan where they say you don't see it until you believe it – they turn the old TV 2 slogan. That's what I think is very well said, because this debate is about the kids who are exposed to things that are so terrible that we really can't believe it. But it happens, and while I was visiting the children's house in Ålesund, there were three very small jackets on a kid. It makes sense, it does something to you, and it must be in the back of our mind when we talk about these things: there are things kids are exposed to, which are so horrific that we almost don't want to believe it. But it happens, and therefore my and the Labour Party are so committed to this matter, and therefore we believe it is so important that all young people up to the age of 18 in this country are to be offered at children's homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e661	There is no doubt that bringing down the waiting time in court hearings is important for us in the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, as for the rest of the Committee. The matter has raised important questions of principle, but it is important that we also have a backtrace up in this. First, as far as age limits are concerned, I just want to remind you that we are increasing the limit set by the red-green government to 15 years, to 16 years now. There is also a difference between a 5-year-old and a 17-year-old when it comes to explaining to an interviewer. But the most important thing here was to bring down the waiting time and look at what we could do to help get it down. Then we propose that the judge should be removed from the hearing. And if we're going up to 18 years, we have to have the judge present at the hearings. This means that the judge is to be brought back into the hearings and that that person must meet in the court despite the fact that he is over 16 years of age. When it is proposed that the age limit is 16 years, it is because the judge can be expelled and that the hearings can be conducted more quickly. So that was the question of lack of interrogators. No, many studies show that the problem is not the number of respondents, but their use during questioning. Police have to give priority to the use of the interviewers they have available. That is why I am very pleased with what is in the position in this case, that we are giving a clear signal, a clear message back to the minister and the police: the police must give priority to using referees for questioning. Then I want to refer to a chronicle of Tone Davik and Inger-Lise Broste, who stood in the evening post. Tone Davik works in Kripos and is a specialist in judicial hearings, and Inger-Lise Brøste is a specialist in judicial hearings at the Police College, and they say that it is 'unhistorical' to leave the questioning of children to other professional groups: it will be ‘disturbing the good work done today. [[...]] We have tried this before, with the observation system – research and experience clearly showed that for several reasons this was not a good solution». Why should we not then listen to what is shown by good experience – do not take in something that we already know today will not be a good solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e677	It is good that there will be some temperature in a debate on an important matter. Although we agree on the matter in many areas, I think it is okay that we are completely tidy in relation to the facts. It is the fact that the Workers' Party has been in power for eight years. The fact is that the Labour Party did not promote proposals and amend the rules so that children under the age of 18 would have compulsory examinations at children's homes, so they were under the age of 16. So what was right under the Workers' Party is not right when the Workers' Party is in opposition. That is clearly also the case. And there are very interesting points from the Workers' Party, which are now very concerned that if we're going to discuss children, we're just going to discuss those who are under 18. During its eight years in government, has the Labour Party proposed to increase, and raise, the criminal lavalry – for it is at 15 and not at 18? So if the arguments of the Workers' Party are to be taken into account, they should, in the name of propriety, go in and see what they themselves have done in all the years they sat with the Minister of Justice and had the full opportunity to make these changes. Now we're getting important decisions in place. But if you follow the Labour Party's proposal No. 1, making this mandatory for everyone under 18, of course it will also cost more money than it does today – that is also the facts – if everyone is to get an offer and that it not only becomes a right that one unfortunately has to break out in the districts. Then I am back at my point from before: the Labour Party has not in the revised budget deposited the money to follow up its own proposal for a representative. So you suggest making it compulsory for children under 18, but at the same time – in the same week – you do not promote the money needed for everyone under 18 to receive this offer. That is why the representative Ropstad is quite right in saying that as we increase to 16, we need to ensure that those who are under 16, get a good and good offer. Then you'd like to have the discussion if you're going to increase later, but then the resources have to follow, because without resources, this too is just to throw blues in people's eyes. As I have said in previous debates: the Labour Party is good at promoting proposals that cost money, but they do have the benefit of showing that they actually cover up their proposals – and then the proposals are not much worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e697	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e700	Fortunately, even if one has a seat in government for eight years, one comes up with new proposals. It would be a tragedy if the Labour Party for the next four years in Stortinget were not to make any new proposals just because we have been in government for eight years! With respect to reporting: I think that the Labour Party, like a lot of other parties, is working every single day to develop policy, and then there will be more new proposals, representative Leirstein, which did not come into the government for the eight years. So I just want to say that it's not going to happen that we're adding money for the government's own mistakes. They can get the money up even to the proposals that they think are right, and then we're going to put forward a budget proposal in terms of what we think is right. We put in $3.5 million. kr – which is very little money in the big context – for the scope study, which the government has removed. That's the fact, and I hope that the funds – after we debated so much now – can at least come into the government budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e707	The President would like to remind you that posts are to be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e711	To the end: I think the representative, Mr. Wagslid, and the representative, Mr. Leirstein, are talking about two different things, because I do not feel that the representative, Mr. Leirstein, is asking for money for the study, but for the extra costs of making children's homes compulsory up to the age of 18, and that is something different than what the representative, Mr. Wagslid, is discussing. But I think we now, as the debate approaches the end, can take a breath on the ground and say that it's pretty all right that in a debate on such an important topic as this, there will be such a high temperature about one inequality between the majority and the minority on this issue, namely whether it should be mandatory from 16 years or from 18 years. I think it's a strength that the Storting now gathers together in the way they do. So I've registered with some wonder that this definition of what children are, and the age range between 16 and 18, has become a little unreflected, because I think the starting point and intention of the children's homes is to make a terrible difficult situation for the children a little bit easier, a little bit better. So there is often a difference both in the type of assault that they over 16 are subjected to, and the type of assault that they under 16 are subjected to, and there is a difference in who the attacker is – in terms of over 16 years and under. So there are some arguments for dealing with these issues a little bit differently. Then I think you should also take on the perspective that a young girl of almost 18 years might be exposed to if she – mandatory – was to be referred to children's homes to conduct an interview after a rape. I'm not sure that would be experienced as much better than the situation a person who was then almost authoritative would experience, as being treated in the same way as an adult person. So there are some dilemmas in this age range that I think deserve a slightly more reflected approach than what there have been some tendencies in the debate. But I think we should be happy about what we can enjoy, that we are now taking long, good steps towards securing the vulnerable children a somewhat better situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e738	The judicial remedy system is the Stortinget's own compensation scheme. Through this, there will be upliftment to many people who in childhood were subjected to injustice on the part of society, the human being that the state was responsible for caring for. Instead, they were subjected to selection and manipulation. No money — no matter how much money — can give back these human childhoods, but through this system, society gives humans some upliftment for the injustice they have suffered. In this there is also a symbolic action, a value-based action, simply to show that society sees them, that the Greatness sees them, that there is also an uproar in this. Today we are discussing the annual report for 2013. The number of applications received under this scheme in 2013 shows that the number of cases still falls slightly. Last year there were two selections in work, but they indicate that from 2014 there will be only one selection in work, due to just the low entry into new things. The Committee would therefore stress the importance of people who are intended to apply for legal compensation – primarily for the purpose of this upliftment to the individual, but secondary because it more precisely shows the extent of those who have come out particularly unfortunate, and where there is some criticism on the part of the public. It is a joint committee which underlines the importance of the judicial remedy system and the fullness of justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e747	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e761	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative, Ulf Leirstein, who is given the floor on behalf of the President-in-Office, Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e770	There has been a long fight to get the law change that we are discussing today. For a long time, many have fought hard to remove the rules of old age for gross criminal acts. Many have experienced that the limitation period has led to the release of perpetrators from punishment, and many of us have failed to understand why such abominable, criminal acts were to expire. As I said, this has been a struggle many have fought for many years, and many who have been subjected to abuse, and many relatives have been at the forefront of the fight to eliminate the limitation period. I am pleased to note that today this battle is crowned with victory. Also, as a representative of the Progress Party, I cannot fail to mention that the Progress Party was entirely alone when we first proposed it in 2003, and we were alone in the fight to get this into the criminal law of 2005. But today, I will first and foremost be pleased that the government, the committee and the Stortinget have provided swift treatment of the law, and that this battle can now be crowned with victory. I would also like to take the opportunity to commend the Christian People's Party for putting the issue on the agenda quickly after the election through a representative proposal earlier this spring. Although the Government Platform is aware that these are changes that will be put in place during this period, it is very pleasant that all parties represented in the Judicial Committee now see the importance of this legislative change for the victims. The Judicial Committee has therefore taken responsibility as a college and has ensured that this matter is dealt with before the summer. There's a lot of reason why this change is urgent. Both the government and the Justice Committee have gone as far as the Constitution § 97 allows in the matter of giving the law retroactive effect. The result is that all serious violations and killings that are not yet out of date will not be obsolete after the law enters into force on 1 July. However, the Constitution sets the limit in such a way that matters that are already out of date under current legislation cannot be reinvigorated. The longer we wait with this bill, the more matters will become obsolete, and then the victims and the relatives will lose the opportunity to get the case resolved and the offender punished. There are a number of serious offences that will be covered by this change. Cases of killing, rape and sexual intercourse with children under 14 and 16 years of age are completely exempted from the rules on parentality following the change. In other words, these crimes will always be punishable, no matter how long has passed since the deed took place. The amendment will also ensure that the limitation period does not start until the victims reach the age of 18 in cases of violence in close relations, forced marriages and trafficking in human beings. In addition, the new Penal Code of 2005 has already adopted outlaws for trafficking in human beings. We have to take inwards as societies, that time doesn't always heal all wounds. Some crimes are so brutal, so fundamentally inhuman, that as a society we should not allow punishment to go away because of procedural rules. The victim of violence who has lost his security, the grieving and lonely widow without a reply, the mother of an abused child: these are people who have gone through the worst imaginable. We can't give these people back what they've lost, but we have a duty as a society to do what we can to set up. These victims and relatives deserve answers, they deserve respect, and they deserve not least to be taken seriously. I am therefore pleased that, through the decision here today, we are taking a step in the right direction to improve the situation of the victims in this country. It's really time for the victims to be taken seriously. Norway has been very good at building up criminal services to rehabilitate and protect the rights of criminals, but the rights of the victims have not received the attention they deserve. Of course, it is important to provide for rehabilitation in criminal matters, but ethically, it is even more important to care for the victims. I must point out that unlike the criminal, a victim is completely innocent in the situation that has arisen. Society has a fundamental responsibility for ensuring the safety of its citizens, and when the population is subjected to abuse, society should therefore take greater responsibility for the victims than it is today. The decision we are making here today is the first step on the road, but the Progress Party will continue to work to launch a series of measures to improve the situation of victims. This is such a clearly necessary legislative change that it is really almost shameful that we have waited until 2014 to get it in place. The size should have taken responsibility at a much earlier time. The Progress Party has a good conscience. Today more people are going to get it, but I think they should get it earlier. This room had a wide-ranging debate on these changes in the context of the 2005 Criminal Code, and the issue has also been addressed in a number of questions, proposals and proposals from the Progress Party. If the other parties wanted it, we could have prevented ten years of serious crime. However, I shall conclude by commending the Justice Committee for its good cooperation in this matter, so that we can bring about important and necessary legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e802	I would like to thank the case spokesperson for his statement. I'm glad that there's a mass accumulation that today decided to remove the limitation period in matters that deal with killing, dictation and sexual intercourse with children. This is a cross-political matter, and it is very positive that we gather that this deadline should be removed. The Stoltenberg II government sent a proposal to remove the limitation period for killing and sexual assault on children on a hearing in February last year and then announced its own proposition to the Stortinget during 2013, after the hearing was over. In this case, the new government came to a table. The hearing was closed, and the matter was ready to proceed. But I am pleased that the previous government's work on removing the limitation period is followed up by the new government. For the most serious offences, no dot can be set until the offender is punished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e813	After today's trial, there is no possibility of resuming a case, despite the fact that new and good evidence has come later. Today more and more offences are reported, but then after the limitation period has expired. If the offended person is unable to rely on the nearest person, the recognition is likely to come in adulthood or at the stage of life when the victim is in the process of adulthood. Thus, the need to confront the culprit may increase over time. Sexual assaults were previously suppressed. The victims were ashamed. The same thing might be said that they are doing today, but what has happened is that society's attitudes to these kinds of crimes have changed. Today, victims and relatives meet with greater empathy and sympathy and with a community understanding that efforts should be made to correct this situation as far as possible. This change that has occurred in society does not capture today's laws in a good enough way. Children do not have the same conditions as adults in order to take care of their interests, so it is important that the law provides additional protection for children. Murder, rape and assault stand in a special position as crimes. In just these things, not everyone is playing the time. The effect on the offended person is so strong that it may take a long time before the offended person is able to re-open the matter. The preventative effect of punishing offenders at any time for acts that are far behind in time will be strong with the amendment of the Bill that Stortinget will adopt today. A human life is the highest legal guardian of our legal order. A human life is irreplaceable. The need for clarification must outweigh the fact that the killer is to avoid punishment for a long-awaited relationship, and that during that period he has behaved properly and lived a law-abiding life. In addition, there are today ways of resolving matters that are far behind in time, in a completely different way from those that you have had in the past, including: DNA analysis. You have to feel safe in the community you live in, without being surrounded by criminals that are never taken. Serious issues that are not resolved will cast doubt on both legal certainty and the general security of society. The change of law that will be adopted today by the Storting will be a powerful signal to potential offenders and a strong warning that a criminal offence will be persecuted and judged, no matter how far back in time it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e839	I want to start by thanking the government for quick work. I want to say that it's fun to deal with things where we've had a little bit about taking credit for who it is that achieves the result. It might also show that we're many people who have a little bit of credit for doing this. We had a good debate on this matter a few months ago in this room. Then there were several who raised the victims and the battle they fought, and who have influenced and made impressions on many politicians and led many politicians to change their views on the matter. I think it's worth remembering. I would also like to take credit for the Advancement Party and return the thanks to Ulf Leirstein, for there is no doubt that the commitment shown by the Advancement Party, which the case-rapporteur and the representative of Leirstein have had in the matter, has meant a great deal. I am pleased with the new parliamentary situation. We treated the children's houses instead. Now we're dealing with this case. It helps to get ahead of things. Even though we share an engagement, it's also giving you a pressure. I am perhaps less satisfied with the new parliamentary situation in the next matter we are going to discuss, but we will have to come back to that. This case concerns killing and rape – terrible, serious crimes. As the Advocate General pointed out, today's rule is that, after the expiry of the time limit, the possibility of criminal proceedings and the possibility of a criminal offence being punished has been excluded. The rapporteur explained well to whom this applies, so I will not go into it. What I'm going to go into is a little bit of what's been the concern about the change in the law, which I also assume others will come up with later, because it's claimed that the change we're making today can increase the risk of a murder of the judiciary. I would say on the contrary, or at least that legal certainty is being strengthened today. What is quite clear is that the presumption of innocence is established. The terms of criminality are the same. It also means that today you get a better situation, because when we have better technology, when we know that there can be proof that we can find the guilty one, it should just be lacking that the guilty one, too, should be punishable in such serious cases as this. Therefore, it is also such that when I hear the argument that the prosecution authority has to investigate matters that are within reasonable limits, and that it is therefore important that there is an end, that there is an end to when one is going to investigate certain types of cases, then I can agree that it may apply in some cases, but at least it may not apply when it comes to killing and sexual assault. It has also been mentioned that the need for punishment is decreasing, and that criminal acts often occur when more criminal acts are committed and can be punished for the other circumstances. But again, some cases are so serious that that argument is not as valid. It also means the department, and the Stortinget has done well in the matter that we are deciding today. I would like to thank the Committee and the Department for their good cooperation and work, and I am pleased that this change will come into force as of 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e854	When the Stortinget debated this theme a few weeks ago, most in the hall were some of the results. Victims and survivors of serious crime will be put to the throne. The changes in the law today ensure that the most serious issues are not put into the drawer and stamped out, but that the victims and the survivors can still get an answer, even if one passes a time limit. No one should feel confident that they cannot be held responsible for serious criminal acts, even after the expiry of the earlier limitation period. Old things that are being cleared up may also lead to more recent things, where the same perpetrator is involved, being cleared up. It's important for the Center Party to stress that this only applies to the most serious and offensive actions that human beings can be subjected to. In all other cases, the limitation period will still be payable. For other types of crime, the principle of once having to be seen is still valid. I want to end by saying that we in the Center Party are very happy that this law change is now coming into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e865	The Judicial Committee has put forward a consensus on the suspension of the limitation period in criminal matters in relation to incest, vote and killing. A lot of people are now standing on the pulpit and fighting to take credit for it. There isn't a fight the left will be in. On the contrary, we would warn that we are going to vote against this proposal today, as we also voted against the proposals in Document 8:14 S for 2013–2014, which provided the basis for the case. Offence of criminal offences is a fundamental principle in our liberal state of law. Quite rightly, we have lifted the limitation period for some crimes: genocide, war crimes, terror and crimes against the human race, among others. Because this is a question of crime, which is perhaps so much directed towards society, as well as the individuals involved. But we're going to be very careful to do what the plural has intended to do today, simply to lower the threshold significantly to eliminate the obsolescence of other criminal offences. Evidence weakens over time, and the risk of error and murder increases. Just because the evidence requirement, on which the representative was involved, must be as strict when it has been a long time, it is difficult to imagine that it would be appropriate to commit criminal proceedings more than 25 years after a serious act has been carried out. Elections, for which one today removes the limitation period, are difficult enough to prove after 25 hours. You can think of the chance that you can prove it after 25 years. The need for punishment in society and in the insulted and the intrepid diminishes as time goes on. Many insults will need to put things behind them. Penalties will also have little or no function towards the perpetrator, who may be held responsible for a relationship from far back as he or she approaches the end of a long life, perhaps 50 years later. It is also difficult to find examples of something that today's amendment will actually concern, i.e. issues in which one after as many years as this is about, all of a sudden get sufficient evidence to condemn someone. On the other hand, there are examples of cases in which an offender has stood up and admitted after a very long time, precisely because the limitation period exists. I would venture the claim that there is no offense that has been sorry for that. Or, as the Association of Lawyers wrote in its hearing response last year, in which they clearly opposed the now ‘Of course, you can imagine cases where a perpetrator admits a killing after a long time, and there is no doubt that the confession is correct. In any event, the perpetrator's confession will have an effect on the survivors, and the absence of criminal liability may increase the possibility of such a confession, thereby clarifying the case to the survivors.» All in all, it is crucial for the Left that anti-criminal measures increase in intensity as time goes on, and that the danger of harming innocent people cannot overshadow any criminal need in such cases. When our current penal code of 1902 was still in force, the impending criminal law commission stated that: «a legal investigation after perhaps half a century would even, in the event of the greatest crime, be an act of no real use, almost fit to bring sorrow and misfortune upon the innocent as guilty». Despite the fact that it has been a long time since 1902, this is an assessment that stands out quite well. During the work on the new penal code, which has not yet entered into force, the department issued the following statements in Ot. pp. No 90 for 2003–2004. ‘For the rules on the limitation of criminal liability, it is also of central importance that the value of witness tests and other evidence be weakened over time. This increases the risk of a court decision becoming incorrect. In criminal matters, that consideration weighs heavily. And if one is aware of the uncertainty of the evidence, it will often lead to such a doubt that the prosecution ends in acquittal. For the preventative effects of the criminal prosecution, the same is far from being done, either because of obsolescence or because of abstinence.’ When one conducted a hearing in 2013, several professional bodies were critical of ending the limitation period for the offences we are talking about today. Some of them also pointed out that the proposals were primarily of political significance, more than a real change that would lead to several judgments. That's where I think we're at the core. For my part, I would say in this context that we see an increasing tendency for the country's legislative assembly to allow the media and populist concerns to govern the development of criminal law and criminal proceedings, both in terms of the level of punishment and now also in terms of limitation. It's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e902	I am very glad that today we have a decision that it has some time been clear that there is a large majority for in Stortinget – removing the limitation period in matters like these. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party, which took the initiative right after the election, the committee that has done a collective and good job and the Council of State and the department that has quickly come forward. But I think that in the competition that has been here about who should have the most honor, I will point out the many victims, who have stood up for the last few years and have seen these matters on the agenda in a different way than before, like those who devour the greatest honor. They have influenced many politicians. It's like politicians don't bother to be influenced. On the contrary, a listening ear to people who come with important points of view and contributions and present their own experiences. I must be allowed to say that in the post of the representative Rotevatn, who is a man I have the greatest respect for, I think he makes a mistake when it comes to this question. Let's go through what it looks like. In my view, those we are talking about – who have been subjected to serious abuse – today actually have less legal certainty because of the limitation period than many others. Why? Well, first of all, we're talking about fractures that are of such a nature that very many people don't recognize it for themselves, even less for anyone else, until a very long time has passed. One of them has been involved in running this case – Annett Berntsberg Eck – was at the gallery here during the discussion of Document 8 a few months ago. She reported the infringement 35 years after it happened. 35 years later she was ready to do it. She has accepted that her case was obsolete, but has found peace in that she could help others to come in another situation later. This is because the crime has a different character than very many others. This is true of the most severe, most offensive human experience. In addition, we have been through a social change. We have to admit that a few decades ago society saw this in a completely different way. If we're to be honest, it's a lot to go on before it's fully accepted in society and viewed as all right – and that one feels it's natural – to stand up. As several representatives have been involved, there has been a change in research methods. One today has more ability to solve matters — with more precision — than some decades ago. At my best discretion, we strengthen the legal certainty of a group that, with today's limitation period, does not have the legal certainty they are entitled to and should have because very many cases never come up after the infringement has occurred. That's why I think the decision we're making today is right, although I think it's right that we have limitation periods in the vast majority of criminal cases that we're still going to have. I'm considering SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e919	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e923	Let me first – since the occasion is so rare after an article by SV’s representative Solhjell – say that it was an unusually good and reflected post. I agree with the majority of what the representative said. I also think it shows the importance of the decisions that the Stortinget will take today. Then I would like to thank both the Committee and the rapporteur for their very good cooperation. It's good for a government council in such a field to have an active collapse in the back, which is working hard for us to have the necessary progress in such matters. The proposal now under consideration means that, for the most serious crimes, no sentence can be set until the offender is punished – no matter how long it has been since the crime took place. With this proposal, we give insulted and abandoned legal protection first priority. For the victims and the survivors, it is important to clarify the circumstances of the criminal and criminal offence, among other things. in order to close a heavy and difficult chapter in life and to receive upliftment. It is these reasons that underlie the developments we have seen internationally, where war crimes, genocides and crimes against humanity are not outdated. Moreover, in the case of offended persons, it would be an additional burden that the time is set inexorably at a time when the possibility of clearing and uplifting disappears. It also examines a proposal that the rules on so-called out-of-court custody should also apply in cases of violence in close relations, forced marriage and trafficking in human beings. This means that the limitation period is the earliest from the offended age of 18. This proposal is also important in order to promote the legal position of the offended. It is well known that the Progress Party has long been a driver to eliminate the limitation period for serious infringements and that on previous occasions the party has had little impact on such a view in Stortinget. That's why I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and others in this room have shown that the political situation is now different. I agree that the honour should not just be given to the Progress Party alone. There are many who have shown an extensive commitment, not least to all those mentioned by the representative Solhjell in his statement, who have stood out and shown the importance to them for the adoption of this Decision today. As pointed out in the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the victim’s perspective has not traditionally received the attention it deserves. The changes currently under consideration will help to strengthen the position of victims. This does not mean, however, that the legal certainty of the defendant is at risk, which I have recorded that some critical voices have been expressed. Sacrifice rights and legal certainty of the defendant are not always on a collision course. The strict evidence requirements that will apply in criminal proceedings must, of course, also be met here — as elsewhere. I am concerned that the police and prosecution authority should also give priority to investigation of murder and assault cases, even if it has been a long time since the crime was committed. It will also be necessary to look at how we follow up on matters that have been unsolved for a long time. In this context, I want to engage in dialogue with the prosecution authority to see how these matters are being followed up today, and to assess whether they are good enough, and how we can improve the process of following up the matters that have been going on for a long time. I am concerned that today's decision will also have practical consequences. There are, as many have been involved, completely new methods. We have other possibilities for securing technical evidence, investigating DNA analyses, etc. This also means that a systematic follow-up by the Public Prosecutor’s Office is required in the investigation of that type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e942	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e956	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e961	As the rapporteur-in-Office, I am going to encourage the majority's attitude and speak for it. I know that the minority in the committee has a lot of speech, good and competent representatives, so I expect them to duly comment on their arguments. This debate on beggaring and the situation that has arisen, not least in our big cities, has been a few years of quite strong force. Because of the situation we have seen develop after the previous ban was lifted in 2005, many have suggested that we need to get the situation under control. The government has therefore now made a proposal to allow municipalities to adopt local beggar bans — local bans on begging throughout the municipality, if the individual municipalities and local authorities so wish. I want to say that in many ways it is only a small extension of what the previous government promoted and was adopted last year, when it was introduced that a ban can be adopted in some areas of its municipality. I find it difficult to see the fundamental difference in the fact that the police can expel from an area in a municipality rather than expel from the municipality. From this point of view, I find that there is a rather massive majority in Stortinget who want to give the opportunity to have a ban on begging either in parts of the municipality or throughout the municipality. Many of us have also called for a national ban. In the position that exists, we in the Progress Party, the Right and the Centre have agreed that from next year we will introduce a national ban on begging. This shouldn't be a surprise. That's exactly in line with what the three parties promised the voters. We were quite clear for a long time before, and beyond all, the election, that we wanted – if we had a majority in this room – to introduce a national ban on begging. Now we're introducing what we've promised. I am also pleased that polls carried out frequently, and still away, on this issue, also show massive support for what the government has proposed, and what these three parties believe, namely that one wants to live not least the aggressive form of begging and the large amount of begging that also leads to other things, not least criminal acts, as the Oslo police point out – we want it to live. Police have pointed to an explosive increase in crime, not least in the capital. This does not mean that everyone who begs is involved in criminal acts, but there is no doubt that there is a connection. We have also seen a number of judges in the judicial system in this country, where a context is demonstrated: those who are under the pretext of begging, who are currently a legitimate business in Norway, sometimes commit serious crimes under this cover of begging. I don't want that kind of development. We've had a ban on this before. It was lifted. I don't think anyone who agreed to cancel it could imagine what we were waiting for. I note that the government and the majority position available have broad support for the people, and that is good. The big thing should be a speaker for what most people think. But it's not enough just to ban begging. In fact, targeted action is also very important. Not least here in the capital, where the Storting is located, we see very often that we have a lot of heavy addicts who use begging to get a few extra dollars every day. My claim is that there are no Norwegian citizens who have to beg to cope with their everyday lives and have the opportunity to handle it. Norway has the largest safety net in the world, and if it does not hit the safety network, among others. heavy drug addicts, we have to look at the tools, because there's no life, and there's no dignity in sitting and begging. We want to give these people dignity. Therefore, I am pleased that the government, not least in its health reform that was presented yesterday, is very clear that now a strengthening is being presented in the drug field. But we have to do more. Therefore, the suspension of the three mentioned batches clearly calls for the targeting of the measures. In addition, the measures in the home countries of many of those arriving beggars also need to be targeted so that they can be helped at home. The majority in the Committee on Justice, as I see it, put forward a sensible and good attitude in three points and hope that more people will join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e978	Distresses may, as you know, not be taken away, nor discomfort, by encountering distress and misery in Norway or abroad. For the Workers' Party, solidarity with those in need in Norway and abroad has been important. That is why in the Labour Party we have a redistributive policy, in which we distribute from those who have, to those who need the most assistance and help. That is why the Workers' Party has proposed a percentage target for assistance to strengthen assistance to Syria, among others. The previous government also adopted a legislative change that addressed in a good way the challenges posed by the fact that people who were beggars and also committed other types of crime or were to the detriment of the general population. As the rapporteur was also concerned, it may be part of this problem. In this matter, however, we fully agree with the Christian People's Party. We believe that in the proposal submitted by the government there is nothing to suggest that there is a need for changes in the law introduced under the previous government. Most police districts report relatively few problems related to begging. So what is the context that makes you promote this proposal now, and strengthen it, when there are really no reasons for it? It may be that the Progress Party has a need to address its policy to its well-known electoral groups – the communication that is about us being flooded by refugees, they want to move around in Norway where there is no beggar ban, or statements that generally link crime and begging, with two red lines below. I do not believe that any of this is documented either by the government in this case, or in what appeared during the hearing in the case, when we had it here at Stortinget. The Association of Lawyers also points out that the submission of the Department does not seem to support such a link. So for the Workers' Party, this is an important thing, but it seems like there's a little bit of kind of a trade power to be displayed. It gives the Progress Party and the government an opportunity to pack old things into new paper. Today's finance minister, former party leader, Siv Jensen, said in 2012 that beggars would be put on a bus and transported out of the country. It was the same year that the Prime Minister, then party leader in the Right, stated that she did not consider it necessary to ban beggars in Bergen. What impact does this have on the small group of beggars in Norway? The new government does not have clear answers to that. There have been reports of concerns from Freedom Norway, the Church's City Mission, the Salvation Army and volunteer workers in the drug field. In Kristiansand, the Salvation Army has done an incredibly good job. Together with other non-governmental organisations and associations, they manage an overnight accommodation offer, and they have given training to people from Romania who are here and who have done begging. The rapporteur in Kristiansand, from the Right, stated that he would have an analytical approach to the problem of begging – a bit of the same thing that we heard Erna Solberg also said in 2012. As the study showed that there were actually no particular problems related to beggary activities in Kristiansand, the rapporteur nevertheless chose to insist that the ban be introduced and that it should be reinforced. The Labour Party believes we have a law that can be handled strictly by the police. We are quite clear that we should not allow people not to offend others, be a nuisance to the public, or commit crimes – and at the same time beg. That is why we believe that the law that exists is good, and we believe that it has also given good experience. It shows the media projections that have been on the Bergen police district, which will now take up some of the tools that were in the previous law. They point out that they have had good experience with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e995	The Right Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party have now agreed to do something about the sadly increasing systematic organisation of the begging that we have seen in Norway. A large majority would like to welcome this, because many people experience begging as a real problem in their community, like as a source of insecurity, and in some cases a source of crime. The proposal gives rise to some strong reactions, which are both understandable and predictable. They are understandable because you can immediately believe that everyone who asks for a ticket to the bus should now be jailed. They're predictable because you've heard about the scare images so many times before. Now it's going to be criminal to be poor, now it's going to be forbidden to ask for help. Of course it's not like that. It's the systematic and almost professionalized beggar that we want to get under control. So it just has to be said that the beggar question is a very difficult question. That's a difficult question for many reasons. We in the Right have doubted the conclusion. Prohibiting certain forms of begging involves a difficult balance between different ideological views, justice policy issues and social considerations. On the one hand, the clear starting point is that people should initially be free to do whatever they want, as long as they don't bother their surroundings. When this starting point meets concrete information that many beg systematically, with targeted methods, and like to have branches of criminal networks, the question suddenly becomes much more difficult. It's also very difficult to accept a claim that this is so terriblely illiberal. No one shall prohibit poverty, no one shall prohibit the request for assistance in an emergency. But it has to be said that there is a significant difference in asking for help and doing begging almost as a job. It also has to be recognized by the most liberal of us. When beggaring is carried out systematically and continuously, it is obvious that at some point it will become too disruptive to the environment. That means that at some point we have to take account of the others in society as well. Very much of the activity we see in society today is subject to some kind of rule or regulation. Just to accept that our streets will become a arena of systematic begging, without also subjecting the kind of activity certain rules, is at the limit of naive. Nor is it that allowing begging in itself is so very solidarity or humane. The beggar ban does not solve the poverty problem at all, but it does not really do begging either. In a society like Norwegian, we give people help in completely different ways, by completely different means. It can be done to the same extent as before, whether you get a beg ban or not. Now that we have opted for the introduction of a ban on systematic begging, it is because, after a difficult overall assessment, it is for us to consider crime prevention and social order more than to consider that any Norwegian citizen or EEA citizen should be free to use our streets to engage in permanent begging.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1012	After two good debates, I have to admit that I have been a little afraid of this. I really think it's a very sad day for Stortinget. That's why I want to start by asking the question, what's the problem? Why is the Storting going to adopt a ban today? What's the problem? I hear it's being said 'crime'. But I can't see the connection between the disturbance of order and the need to prohibit it from asking for help. I see from the hearing in connection with the proposition and from feedback from the police districts that there is not a large number who are asking for a ban. Of the 27 police districts, I think I counted up to three. I do not see that there is any evidence that this is a connection. I have also heard from representatives here in the past that begging is not equal to crime. Does the challenge of aggressive begging — defined as raising a cup, with an oral call for giving — involve crime, unrest or disturbance — have to be dealt with by a ban? No, if it's crime, if it's disorderly, the police have the tools they need. If it's crime, they can knock it down. As we have heard before, for example, reporting obligations, which have been used by Hordaland and other police districts, have reduced the number of beggars and given better overview – and will also help in the fight against trafficking in human beings. The problem is that these are poor people, people living in need — whether in Norway, in Eastern Europe or in other parts of the world — who come to Norway to seek help. We do not claim that this proposal is an attempt to ban poverty – I do not think it is – but it is a proposal aimed at preventing poor people from asking other people for help. None of us feel that begging is good, that it is positive that people with talent and qualities downgrade themselves – sitting on the street asking for help – that way. There is no one who believes that the lasting path out of poverty is begging, but what is the alternative for these people? I record that there is certainly a workline and other types of action to get people out of poverty. I support 100 pst. on several measures to help beggars in other ways. But for many of these people it will take a very long time for them to get a job. I ask the question, what is their option? If they can't sit and ask for help, I fear crime, that someone sees himself forced to do prostitution and other things, which at least aren't good for them. If one goes back just a few years, one sees that when a total accumulation lifted the lien law – a sleeping paragraph – the Stortinget discussed itself to the point that at least there had to be a clear connection. Even in the vote, the Justice Committee wrote that it was a growing challenge that more people were coming. One was aware of the problem, but nevertheless felt that one could not forbid it. There is a discussion of whether there is a breach of freedom of expression with a prohibition. At least the proportionality must be present. I know that in Austria and in some states of the United States, administrative courts have condemned it to be a violation of freedom of expression. I'm not going to argue that that's it -- I trust that the assessments made by the department are good -- but at least it shows the fundamental challenges that the last opinion a poor person has is to ask for help. So it has to be banned. I must express my disappointment at our good Central Party colleague in this matter. Fortunately, today I read early that there is hope for the Centre Party – there are several representatives who are calling for the Center Party to turn around. I wish it were in other matters than this Center Party used its ability to form a majority with the government parties. It is really not this that solves the challenge – the challenge is poverty. This is why we support work on either using EEA funds more specifically to combat poverty in Eastern Europe or action in Norway to help people. This proposal will not help. It's a dark day for the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1035	This case began with the introduction of a bill from the government that deals with the possibility of allowing municipalities to adopt local prohibitions against begging through the police regulations. After negotiations with the two government parties, we in the Center Party, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, have come up with a solution that will secure multiple for local prohibition. At the same time, the majority of the committee as part B of the government's vote called for a new bill on beggaring to be dealt with in Stortinget before summer 2015, this time to introduce a national beggar ban. It has been important for the Central Party in the process of negotiation that a beggar ban should be linked to more targeted social measures both to beggars in Norway and to the poor in the countries from which most beggars come. I'll come back to this. The central party programmed at the national meeting last year once again that we want to introduce the general ban on begging again. We already have a ban on organized and aggressive begging. That ban has no effect on the extensive beggaring, which we have seen increase sharply in recent years. Unfortunately, this beggar has also brought with it a great increase in profit-criminalism, such as handicrafts. It's a problem when the number of handkerchiefs in Oslo is as high as in Berlin, where there are seven times as many inhabitants as in Oslo. There is also no doubt that extensive beggaring brings with it the problems of order and siphoning, which affect many who live and travel in the big cities, especially in our capital. In this context, it is important to clarify that a national ban must also ensure that begging cannot be done either by visiting people's homes where they live. Last year, the red-green government put forward a bill that would allow municipalities to impose local bans on time and place, but this new law that we are about to adopt today makes it possible to define the entire municipality as a beggar-free zone. So it's a little bit further. In the Committee's comments on the case of local bans that we dealt with in 2013, a joint committee pointed out that the way out of poverty in the long term is schoolwork and permanent work. I would like to stress that this suggests that young people go to school by their parents. In a focus document that NRK showed a few–three years ago, they followed some Romanian beggars both while they were at home in Romania and while they behaved here to beg. The saddest thing about the whole program was not that the adults put on the streets here to land in the daytime and bought themselves sausages for the evening they ate in shitty tent camps, but that the kids asked what they would be like when they grew up, immediately answered "beggars". The interview of these kids was made while parents behaved in Norway, and the kids offered alone the oldest babysitter for the rest of the youth. This is, in my view, the expression of a culture that is passing on social distress and poverty. Letting beggars be allowed is not a good tool for these kids to get an education and work in the future. Project tools for the school are discarded if the kids are not allowed to go to school. There's no one who's ever gotten out of social trouble by begging or by teaching their kids to beg. When Norway provides aid to poor countries, the aim is often to ensure better health provision and to implement the vaccine programme. The second main objective is to facilitate people to manage themselves in the short and long term, through, for example: supporting projects offering schooling for young people who would otherwise not have had a school offer. I think it's incredibly important that Norway target its efforts to prevent and reduce social and economic hardship. It is therefore clear from point C of the opinion of the majority of the committee – consisting of the Right, the Progress Party and the Center Party – that the government is asking the government to ensure targeted social measures against beggars in Norway. Furthermore, we ask that the project resources transferred by Norway through the EEA system be clarified and used to improve the economic and social situation of the poorest. As I mentioned at the outset, it is essential for us in the Centre Party that precisely such actions and projects should ensure that people can get out of poverty. This theme will be presented in the multiple comments in the Preferences dialog. A beg ban does not pose any problem for e.g. sports teams, school classes and voluntary organisations selling lotteries or collecting money for tours or non-profit purposes. As we have asked questions about this, it is worth clarifying that this is significant in the legal design also in the current law on local prohibitions, which was adopted in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1061	Both in the previous case we treat and perhaps in particular in this, I see a tendency I like bad – very bad. It's a justice policy that's governed by opinion polls and not principle. Direct reference is also made, from the representative Ulf Leirstein, who should clearly be the leading tabulator of this action here in the room, that "measuring units show", so it is only possible to go past. When I went to the Stortinget today, over Karl Johan, who is part of the public room, I thought a little about what we are going to discuss today. We are all some that the public space should be for everyone. We're going to have rules for the public space, of course we're going to. Then I thought about what it is I would not accept when I went down the street today. Would I accept that people would come to me with aggressive behavior, stop me on my way, and be a serious inconvenience to me? No, I probably wouldn't. But if a person now sat up to a three or a bench along Karl Johan with a cup with a note saying, "I have no money, I have no possibilities, I don't have hope," and I can choose whether to put a five in that cup or not, is there something we should use the state's coercive power to prevent? That's what we're talking about here today. Punishing is the best thing that society can do to a single individual. We use force to prevent anyone from doing what they intend to do. It should call for much more reflection than perhaps a majority of the people want this when we sit here and are responsible in the country's legislative assembly. The government doesn't have multiples, but it has managed to get on this case by going to the Center Party, which has found it too good to use its tilt position now in this room to send uniforms to poor people. I didn't think this was an honour to the Center Party, but like a previous speaker, I am glad to hear a number of comments in the media today that more representatives of the Center Party are going to vote today, saying that they are against, among other things. Representative Kjersti Toppe. I must be able to say – with the danger of insulting someone – that even when Kjersti Toppe believes that a ban is an unusually bad idea, it may be worth listening to. There has been disagreement as to whether a local or national beggar ban should be imposed. I have to say, unfortunately, that if you're going to make this work, you're going to have to impose a national ban, because when I listen to our big cities, where this discussion takes place first and foremost, there's no plurality to impose a beggar ban. I can't see that it's in the city-run Oslo, and I can't see that it's in the city-run Bergen, where right-wing town councillors today on NRK Radio said that if that's how the police don't have the resources to enforce a reporting obligation, then there's a reason to ask themselves how they think they have the resources to enforce a ban. This prohibition and imposition was also something that representatives from the government party in the election campaign were very concerned about, that we should not operate and ban everything possible. It's a hold I'm fundamentally united in, it's a healthy principleal approach to politics. But now there's been a little bit of time, and we've come to realize that when it comes to what should be allowed and not, there's a place between wearing a float vest and asking for help in the outer seam. I think that asking for help in the outer seams is perhaps something of the last one should consider prohibiting. This here will not solve the poverty challenges, either in Norway or in Europe. There's a whole other tool that needs to be done. Social problems solve us with social tools, not by using punishment. The anti-trafficking tools claim one will prevent, human trafficking, crime, aggressive behaviour. Homes exist. The police can use them if they want. The only thing we don't have a place for today is going in and doing pure social renovation in our streets. That home has been planning to equip the police today, and it is extremely regrettable. From the left's point of view, that's what we're going to vote against, and we're going to work to reverse as quickly as possible, as we did when the previous bourgeois government ran, and one finally got rid of the prosecuting paragraph. That it was to be reintroduced by the next bourgeois government, I don't think anyone had seen anything going on, and that's a good reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1076	Should we forbid asking for help? That's actually the fundamental question we're discussing here today. I notice that the representative from the Right says that's not what we're discussing – we're discussing the systematic begging. But let me just read what's in the summary in the setting, directly from the proposition, i.e.: ‘The concept of begging must be understood to include situations in which someone asks others for money to be spent on themselves or their loved ones.’ [[...]] No distinction has been made between silently sitting there or active doing it. So what the plural will introduce now, is the prohibition against begging or asking for help. A user often involves aggressive beggaring. I have bid in Norwegian big cities for a few decades – mainly Oslo, but also for a period in Bergen – and today I tried to think through whether I might have experienced aggressive begging. Intensive, perhaps — irritating, yes, sure, but aggressive begging? Being aggressive on Norwegian streets is actually possible to regulate, and it is already possible to hit it through our existing criminal law. So it's used as an argument here that begging is often associated with crime, and there's no doubt about it. But crime, it's a crime. It's already under criminal law. It is the very definition of crime, whether it relates to trafficking in human beings or other criminal matters. But just as little doubt that there are links between begging and crime, there are examples that there are no links between begging and crime. There are actually people in the world who are simply asking for help through begging. It shouldn't be criminal. So an argument that is also often used is that people stare at it – and there is no doubt about it either. But what I could imagine representatives, especially from the Right, could say two words about this up here, is, in the future, will they look forward to building the rule of law and legal protection on whether it has wide support in opinion polls that they intend to introduce from the Storting? Then I have to raise a few more arguments that have come up in the debate. The representative Ulf Leirstein says that no Norwegian citizen should beg today. That's his claim – with the emphasis on "Norwegian" citizens, I noticed. I think after following the debate in various Norwegian cities – let's be honest about it and admit it – a lot of this debate is about some foreign citizens, to a large extent aliens. The reason why a national ban is introduced is because one can avoid it. There have been more direct developments in some of the local debates. Let me invite the Progress Party later in the debate to reflect on the following questions from the Chair – since we are in 2014: How does the Progress Party believe it will be judged in 200 years' time that one in 2014 passed a law in Norway that could be perceived as making it difficult for the Roma to gain access to the kingdom? It might be interesting to see if they have some reflections about the relationship, how it's going to be perceived. So to two other things. The first is, in my view, some of the most absurd thing here is the idea that you should have a law ban on begging, but that you should not have a law ban on buying sex. There are four possible combinations of the two positions. Three of them are, in my view, possible consistent to justify and to mean. But exactly what the Right and Advance Party have, I'll say is almost incomprehensible that one can have. It is quite possible to prohibit begging and to take this decision, but to remove begging in the world I do not think it is possible to do it through law-enforcement – only through other means. I've traveled in many countries, but I can't imagine having been in one without begging. Finally, I would like to address the SV's proposal for various measures that could be the proper use of EEA funds in actions in Norway, which we would like to highlight here since this agreement came after the revision of the national budget was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1103	The representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1106	I am going to stick to what the government is proposing in this matter, but I want to thank the case rapporteur for a good and constructive work in Stortinget, which has led the Stortinge to join the bill that the government has promoted, and in addition to giving the government a kind of marshalling ground to promote a new bill with a certain content. I am also pleased that, at its own decision-making point today, the Storting will take a decision to implement targeted action against beggars in Norway through a number of different measures that are relevant and which also say something about the importance of following up the use of EEA funds for sensible use in the home country to many of the beggars. Then I would like to mention the contribution to the speeches of the Labour Party because I think it is a little special that it is presented as if there is a big difference between the proposal of the sitting government and the proposal of the previous government regarding the prohibition of begging. I agree that there is a difference, and I agree that for some municipalities there will be a big difference in the form that it will be easier to enforce, but that having the opportunity to ban begging at certain times of the day in certain streets in a municipality will be so much better than having a general ban on begging throughout the municipality, I find it difficult to understand. But the world probably looks different from outside government premises, but I think it's a little weird. I would also like to say just briefly, although no one has said it from the pulpit here, that it is more than indicated in the debate outside this Chamber as an argument against the prohibition of begging that poverty cannot be banned. I agree that poverty cannot be banned. But neither can one solve the poverty problem by allowing begging. That argument is really just as weak no matter what direction you use that argument in. Nor do I think it is a proper reflection to argue that the ban proposed by the government, which is likely to have a majority later today, and not the proposal for a new proposition, will lead to a ban on asking for help. To generalize that way I actually think quite unlucky. The reality of this is that one should ban what is defined as aggressive or active begging, forward-looking begging, which, according to many police districts, is also combined with crime. I also do not agree that it is a social good thing to beg. And I have to say that the call from the representative, Solhjell, for reflections on proposals that would make it harder for spacemen to gain access to the empire, gives some associations that were certainly intentional, but that are completely wrong. That kind of statement from the Parliament in a debate that is demanding because there is a great deal of political disagreement around it should not be allowed by the representative, Mr Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1125	I have two questions for the Council of State. First, during the debate, in several speeches by the government parties, we have heard that there is a categorical relationship between crime and begging, words that have been used in the form of widespread or systematic crime. And it was also claimed, as I remember, that it was not regulated. My question is: there is no evidence of such links either in the hearing or in the proposition, we say in the Workers' Party. I ask the Council of State to confirm that there has been evidence of a relationship between begging and crime, as claimed in the statements today? The second question concerns possible consequences. The government has cut the fines and refused to build new prisons. What kind of criminal reaction does the government consider that violations of the new laws should lead to, where should they, if any, zone and what kind of punishment should they zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1136	As far as the latter is concerned, the government's proposal is that it follows the ordinary system for breaches of the police regulations and the reaction pattern that lies there. What's going to be a penalty for a crime against national beggars, one has to come back to the proposition that the majority of the population order during the day, as I understand it. As regards the categorical relationship between crime and begging, it is based on police district feedback, which is the closest one to assess whether that is the type of context. It is also not entirely reflected, in my opinion, to say that committing crime is criminal, so that's the problem solved, as the representative Solhjell was inside from the pulpit. The challenge here is that if you can link some activity of a criminal nature to the beggar environment, it is clear that you can't solve the problem without also solving the beggar challenge. Feedback from police districts is mainly, from those who have responded, that they believe that there is a link.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1145	I also have two questions. The first concerns the measures that the government and the Central Party want to introduce to help people who are in Norway. I expect that it also applies to non-residents who come to Norway to look for a job and happiness, but do not succeed in getting a job and need money in some way. What action does the Council of State want to take to help them? When it comes to the second question, I just want to say that I'm glad that the Council of State is so clear that this isn't about taking a group of people. I've heard that from him before, too, and that deserves to be commended to the Council of State. Indeed, it may seem that there is a need for a ban due to the influx of EEA citizens. It is also based on the change from 2005 to today. So what will the Council of State do to avoid or prevent this not only from being directed at the people of space, but that there will be a ban to be observed against all?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1152	I think I have to answer what is the government's starting point for the proposition proposed by the government. Today, of course, I cannot tell you what kind of proposals the government will make as a follow-up to the proposals that are being adopted today. It is indeed a proposal to be put to the hearing, which will, through its ordinary procedure, be brought back to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain for rapid implementation. With regard to the influx of EEA citizens, there is one element – which has increased in recent years compared to the case at the time of the repeal of the Law on Disposal. It is clear that this change in reality will have an impact on how to assess the current situation. A ban will be of a general nature, it will affect everyone who tries to beg, in the municipalities that impose these beggar bans, and it will make it easier and easier for the police to follow up. There is also an important element in the possibility now given to the municipality to reinforce the prohibition of begging beyond what the previous government gave the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1159	I noticed the posts of the Council of State and in particular the part of the post which concerned the following proposals: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure targeted social measures against beggars in Norway.’ I noticed that these are measures to be given independently of ethnicity and regardless of citizenship. I understand that one can't now say what measures it is, but the measures this is about are going to be positive for those who are beggars today, those who are being affected by the changes in the law that we are now doing. My question is, is then the Council of State's understanding of what we're doing now, that those affected are going to get other benefits, so that they don't have to beg for the pleasures of life to stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1169	I think we have to separate two things. One is the decision taken today, namely a law to allow municipalities to impose a beg ban in their municipality, and the order Stortinget makes. As far as the last point is concerned, we need to come back to how this is to be implemented in practice. As regards the first, there are already some measures, including: grant schemes to non-governmental organisations facilitating, inter alia: beggars, which this government has continued after the decision of the Stortinget. There are social services in the form of accommodation, personal hygiene and so on, and there are measures that apply today, completely independent of the law passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1176	Many of the reasons put forward are organised crime, trafficking in human beings, narcissism or crime related to persons who can also beg. It is suggested that there are situations with travellers, where there are people living in parks, or there may be aggressive begging. All these things are regulated today and banned today, and it is being handled today. Then my question becomes quite simple. These things that you want to fight are something you have laws and rules for. The big cities are actively using it, I myself had responsibility last year in Oslo. You handle it, there's no desire among elected people to change, and begging is something you do, not something you are. Then my question becomes: what about the action in the public space itself – sitting completely silent with a cup in front of it without necessarily saying anything – which suggests that this should be punishable?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1181	I actually disagree with the premise for the question. I believe that the surrounding crime is not adequately dealt with. There's a huge number of pocket thefts and simple thefts in the oslogates. It's such a quantity that it's almost impossible for the police to handle it through the ordinary criminal justice system. As long as the police believe that there is a connection between begging and that kind of crime, I and the government believe that it is necessary to give the municipalities the opportunity to choose it as an instrument to prevent other types of crime in their own municipality. So whether the municipalities choose to take advantage of this option, it will be up to the municipalities to decide. I don't think I'm completely in favour of the percentage, but if I don't remember completely wrong, I think it's something like 80 pst. of the pocket thefts in Norway that occur in the oslogates. I think that is a problem that we have to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1186	What is in the option, which is referenced from the proposition about which beg is understood, are the following: ‘The concept of beggaring in a bar of municipal prohibition must be understood to include situations in which someone asks others for money to be spent on themselves or on their loved ones.’ So the Council of State says that it's only stupid to present this as if it's forbidden to ask for help. There's aggressive begging, and a right-wing representative said that it only applies systematically to begging. So let's try it out: if a person is in complete peace with a cup in front of him, who has been used as an example, and perhaps with a small sign where he is asking to give money, and there is no evidence that he is part of an organized, criminal network, but do it alone or only with his family, can I understand that it will not be the frame of the municipal ban that is now to be introduced – or will it be the frame?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1196	It'll be hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1202	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1207	For me, this case is not primarily about banning begging, but it is about how we can combat poverty and social distress, how we can best help people out of poverty, help them to get a decent life, and how we as big communities can do the best. The beggar ban is closely linked to social measures, I believe, to be a step in the right direction. The question is, are we satisfied with the situation, as it is today, or do we have to try new instruments? No one begs on a voluntary basis. It has a reason, whether it's drug problems or social distress. The question then is, what can we do to keep these people from feeding themselves by begging? The need for social measures to go hand in hand with a ban has been a pre-requisite for the Centre Party. The welfare state is built on taking care of those who are unable to feed themselves with their own work. The Centre therefore considers that social measures such as organised housing, organised employment services, activities and health services are necessary measures that need to be put in place for this group. Then, in recent years, there has been a sharp increase in the number of beggars arriving, people coming from extremely difficult conditions in their home country. When they get here, they don't have the opportunity to get a place of residence. Many sleep under bridges, in parks, in cars, etc. Such images make impressions, and we have to ask ourselves, how can we help these in the best possible way? We all know what kind of problems this creates for the surrounding environment. Then it's actually that help in the home country is the best. Training provision for young people is an action that will improve the situation and prevent poverty from inheriting. EEA funds need to be closely monitored in order to address targeted actions. It is true that when parents come to Norway to beg, the oldest kids are left with parental responsibility for the smaller siblings. Many aid organisations ask for a ban because these kids then fall out of good practice in their home country. I have a great deal of understanding that these kinds of issues are difficult, and the border between justice and social policy is intertwined. The Councils of the Police Directorate, the Oslo Police District and the Riksadvokat have been ready: they want a national ban. No one has ever come out of social distress by begging, but many have got a better life by the fact that the big community has set up for them. That's what's the Norwegian model. I notice the resistance that comes to this matter, but I also notice that none of the opponents say anything about what they think will solve these major challenges. The central party has agreed with the government parties that social arrangements should go hand in hand with a ban. That was a prerequisite for us today to vote in favour of a beg ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1224	First, I must make a comment to the representative Rotevatn, who, unfortunately, in the usual disrespectful way, is attacking my colleague Kjersti Toppe by saying that when the sea Kjersti Toppe, which is for any prohibition, is against this ban, there is reason to listen to her. I have to say that is so disrespectful that I can hardly express myself materially about it. When we know her commitment to alcohol, intoxication and the problems that it gives, I have to say that it shows a side by the Young Left that's what I have the least left over to. What is the matter here today is changes to the police law, begging, Section 14, first paragraph, No. 8, it is replaced by the following: «on the prohibition or detailed conditions for beggaring in a public place or from house to house.» We have got the Minister of Justice's clarification of it, so that those who sit with a cup in front of them do something illegal – after this law has been passed and brought into force. It is a very difficult matter for me to vote in favour of this amendment, because it challenges my social conscience. I had a neighbor who is dead now, and who was an alcoholic. He taught me something very early, he said, "Per, when people ask for five dollars in the street for a long pill, I know how terrible it is to be thirsty." I respect that, so they get $5. It's a dilemma that you're facing, how you're going to act towards people who are struggling, and my social conscience says we're going to treat them with respect, and we're going to make a much bigger effort than today. I listened with great attention to Peter Christian Frølich from the Right Post. He said that one cannot accept begging as work, it is disturbing to the environment, and having rules is naive. He also asked questions about whether allowing begging is human. The last thing I think we should stay with. It's not particularly human to have a society where begging is part of everyday life. It's not that it solves any poverty. What we have experienced for many years is that there are many who have worn out and who have beg in Norway, and that is done too little for them. What we are also facing is that a decision is now being taken to launch targeted measures for beggars in Norway, and I will take this seriously as a member of the Labour and Social Committee. I will take it very seriously and make the necessary proposals, if this is adopted, and it is the Central Party that will allow one to obtain economic residence other than through begging. It is very demanding when we have an EEA agreement with the free movement of labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1242	There is no reason to hide that this is a demanding debate. I'm assuming that it might also be in some other parts than the central part. The centre party has had a long discussion about this. We have had a long discussion at our national meeting in 2013, we have had a long discussion related to our programme for 2013–2017. That discussion ended with the adoption in our program that a person wants to go in for a beg ban, and that's what the Center Party has gone to election on. We have that respect for our party democracy. Then I agree with all those who say that a beg ban does not solve poverty problems. But allowing begging also does not solve poverty problems. The poverty challenges both in Norway and in Europe are great, and they need a completely different and much wider approach than the debate on or against begging bans. This also applies in particular to the fate of the space people, which is also a question that deserves to be looked at in a wider sense than the question of for or against a beg ban. A start is said to be the contribution that Norway is making to the EEA today, and the possibility of using it more targetedly and to a greater extent towards the population than has been done so far. I have noticed that SV has a proposal in this direction today, and SV has presented three proposals that the Central Party is going to consider with an open mind, and that we are going to look at because they are moving in the same direction as the Central Party has intended in terms of social measures. So there's a little bit of disappointment about the Center Party and how we've used our tilt position. I have to say that the way the representative from the Left, Rotevatn, chooses to put his words on, I think is a bit remarkable. Left has used its tilt position to insert the Progress Party into a government. The left has used its tilt position to get a majority for cheaper alcohol, which, according to the party leader, was the 1 200th priority of the party. And then here they're a little bit seaworthy about how other parties use their tilt position. That's what I think is remarkable. With regard to Kjersti Toppe, she expressed today that it is seaworthy that any member of the Central Party can work towards our national meetings to define either a new policy or to change the policy of the Party. It's called party democracy. It's not easy for any of us, the question we're facing today. There are arguments both for and against. These are difficult assessments, and I also think the previous reports from the Center Party have shown that. The centre party will vote in favour of a beg ban, but we will also consider the proposals put forward by SV, because we believe that targeted social measures are inextricably linked to the ban, on which the representative Lundtägen was involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1257	The Christian People's Party believes that begging should not be punishable, for people who sit with a cup and ask for money need to be met with measures other than punishment. One argument that has been used in this room is that many of those who sit and beg are exposed to human trafficking. Then the Christian People's Party believes that it is the rearmen who are engaged in human trafficking, who must be punished, and not those who sit with the cup. The main perspective of the beggar meeting must be that this is about poor people in an incredibly difficult situation. If beggars commit crime, we in the Christian People's Party also agree that it must be done in the same way as any other crime. Tetting is not the solution for those who come here, but to help them in their homeland. But if we look at the economic situation in Europe, we all have to assume that poverty migration will come more and more to us living in the world's richest country. Then we have to think about what we'll do when the challenge just increases. The Christian People's Party, with the human dignity at its centre, will have an overall approach, which responds to several aspects of this challenge when it comes to us as passengers. We are facing a major social policy challenge, where we need to assess what it is that actually helps and is appropriate. At least we have to be able to give these people who come to us, a decent life, in a way that actually gives them a health offer, that they have a sanitary offer that they can live with, and that they can live properly. The Christian People's Party will support, and preferably reinforce, this effort, which allows people to avoid sitting with the cup. But they need our help and our support. Therefore, a plan needs to be designed in such a way that we prevent and reduce the potential conflict that often lies in these matters, and that we see a conflict in the neighbourhoods where these poor are. Then we must have measures that allow us to meet them with respect and at the same time give them action that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1268	The constant indications that begging in Norway is primarily a result of organised crime and cynical backers are, first of all, interesting arguments from parties that appear to be buying sex. Secondly, it is an argument that is blind to the widespread social crisis in Europe, which has hit most countries much harder than it has hit Norway. SV has promoted three proposals aimed at strengthening social efforts related to begging, both at home with humanitarian measures and with an increase in the proportion of EEA funds allocated to Roma in Bulgaria and Romania. In particular, the parties who argue with care for those affected by the begging ban, such as: The centre party, should feel the call to vote for SV's proposal. But what freedom we see in the debate here! Now the Minister of Justice stood here on the pulpit and played insultingly over Bård Vegar Solhjell's suggestion that this law can be interpreted as being aimed at the Roma. Well, that coupling can be thanked by the Advance Party on its own. It was not the representative Solhjell who introduced refusing access to the kingdom in the debate on begging. It was Minister of Justice Anundsen's own party leadership that did. I can quote Per Sandberg from April 29th last year. Then he said to TV 2: ‘Romans may be refused access to Norway.’ It was a play that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman felt called to go out and say that there was a potential conflict with the UN Convention on Racial Discrimination. Then you can add Ulf Leirstein's campaign against Roma people on social media, which guarded national surveillance last year, and then you have to have a reasonable dose of decency to claim that the parties' attitude towards the Roma is not a factor in what we are discussing today. The fact that the Liberal Right makes itself a tool for the double communication of the Advance Party in this matter, I think it is both sad and unexpected. Today, Stortingen forbids asking for help when you are in extreme distress. Ten years ago, right-wing politicians Nikolai Astrup and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen wrote a book called Velferd after the welfare state, where they used a chapter to tell a touching story about a beggar who saved up $14,000 for his dream wedding, because his loved one deserved the best. Times have also changed for those politicians, it seems. Now it's opportune to forbid it from asking for help. If you sell sexual services, it's okay, but if someone asks for coins without return, they're going to be punished. I think the story will judge the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party hard for this decision – banghardt. In the meantime, a number of innocent people have to pay the price of the great majority folly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1286	For me, it's absolutely essential that public space, streets and spaces are our most important democratic arena. That's the one place where everyone really is equal, where everyone has the same meaning. Then it's completely incomprehensible that you should ban sitting completely silent, with a cup in front of you, and be part of the public space, because that's what this proposal really means. Aggressive begging, ongoing begging is prohibited today. The only consequence of this proposal is to remove from public space the people who sit completely silent with a cup in front of them, whether they have a sign or not. That is precisely what the Minister of Justice has confirmed, that it is the meaning behind it. Then I strongly disagree. I believe that this is an attack on the very basics of democracy, on what public space, streets, spaces, squares, should be. It has to be for everyone, as long as they don't bother anyone else. There is no doubt that when a beg ban is put in place, there are two groups first and foremost. It's addicts who are one grouping. There are major shortcomings – regardless of begging, everyone agrees that we need a different policy and completely different resources towards addicts in order to give them a better life. But to believe that refusing them to ask for money should also be part of this whole, I believe is legally naive. First of all, it is completely unnecessary. That's one problem. Outside where I live, if I now met someone when I went to the store, as it happens to ask me for five or ten kroner, it becomes incomprehensible that you should be able to meet it by calling the police. This is really not a problem. As far as the second grouping is concerned, as many also pointed out, we have had a situation with many visitors in recent years, most of which are aliens, who also beg. Yes, it is a problem that many sleep in the parks, it is a problem with waste, it is a problem in some areas around the big cities. But it is not a problem to sit quietly with a cup and ask for money. Then I have a question to the Council of State: does he think that banning begging automatically will lead to a reduction in other crime such as nasking, and does he think that it will automatically lead to a reduction in camping, catering or other problems in the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1297	First of all, let me say that a very important clarification has, after all, been given in this debate. It's that all this is about aggressive begging or organized begging, it's just rhetoric. There is a prohibition on asking for help. If the Minister of Justice insists on what he said crystal-clearly, that you sit still, look forward to a cup and have a sign in front of you – just individually – you will be affected by the ban. So it's forbidden, with the plural now going to adopt, to ask for help. As point two, I think it is very stupid of the Minister of Justice not to want to reflect on something that is being reflected in most of Europe now, namely that the Roma are open to the group in Europe today which, as various peoples have been, is most persecuted in many countries, and that it is discussed, laws are being adopted and political grips are being made to prevent space people from accessing many countries. There is also no doubt that we are making a decision to impose a national begging ban, it will limit access to the realm of space people, because there are many space people among the beggars who come here – that is the way it is. I think we're going to make a poor decision, just like the treatment they're currently receiving in much of Europe, will be very poor in a historical light. There is a lot of complexity in the current debates. It's very complex how to help people out of poverty, people who have been in a situation of great mental difficulties because of drug abuse, because they're trapped in social traps or have cultural traditions that make them not go to school, not work – big, big challenges and complex. It's complex how we're going to deal with organized crime that there's no doubt there's an example of being connected to begging. It's complicated how we're going to keep our parks and our streets clean and how we're going to prevent congestion, etc. But it's not complex if not asking for help on the street is the solution. There is no indication, in my view, of good arguments and evidence that banning sitting quietly and asking for help is the right solution to that. So let's work on all the complexities and solutions that exist. SV now has three proposals in the hall – to increase the pot that goes directly to action. It would be a natural social follow-up, we thought, by a decision, a consensus, that came after the revised setting had been presented. The second is that the pot can be used not only for humanitarian purposes but also for labour law, more long-term training measures — quite in line with the arguments of the others. The third is that EEA funds should be directed more towards measures aimed at Roma people in Romania and Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1312	I took the floor because I was challenged by how we would solve the poverty challenge, and the challenge for those who today consider it necessary to beg. I don't believe in any quick fix in this discussion. I think it would be difficult to lift all people out of poverty, whether it is in Norway or it is in Europe. But I also believe that the followers of the ban make a big mistake. It's that someone at least claims that those people won't come to Norway, then they'll go to school in Romania, or they'll find a job in Romania. It's pretty interesting to listen to, because at least it's a completely different reality from the reality of the people living in Romania. There is a reason they are looking for happiness by coming to a richer country and choosing Norway and other European countries. That's why it's interesting when I hear about social measures – it seems like a proposal in the Storting that social action is about to take place now is what solves the whole challenge. I choose to believe that the followers of or those who vote for that proposal do not sincerely believe that that is what is going to happen. But what are we going to do? The Christian People's Party has been at the forefront of aid, trade and investment for the poorest people who live far outside Europe, so I do not think assistance is what is needed to solve the challenge in Eastern Europe. I believe in a policy change. I also think that EEA funds can be used differently, but I think it will be challenging in the short term, at least, to secure schooling and work, which is the option. So I think that something that's important is that one engages in dialogue with those that relate to: the space people, which is one of the largest groups. Are they involved in making decisions on what alternatives they may have? As opposed to the ban, we want more action in Norway. Then I think it is absolutely necessary that we in dialogue with the space people can talk about different measures that will help them, and that they themselves want to contribute to in order to find alternatives, whether it's getting education, or it's getting work. That's why an important response from the Christian People's Party is that we want more funding for non-governmental organisations, which are doing a fantastic job of helping, whether it's Norwegian or it's foreign beggars. We want labour and education measures and, not least, greater commitment to care, as the government has also warned – and that is good, but it is a long-term measure. People will continue to come to Norway. The problem is that they are no longer allowed to ask for help. I remember the first time I came to Oslo – I think I was about 15 years old – and then beggars on the street. It made terrible hurt in my stomach, for I thought, What kind of city is this, that can't afford to help? I am pleased with the feeling I got, and I hope that this does not send a signal to growing young people that they should not get a feeling in their stomachs, that they should not be able to give – or that those who need it should not be allowed to ask for help.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1327	I will take the floor again after the speech by the representative of Lundteg. I stress that it was not in any way meant to be disrespectful to the representative Toppe; I just tried to make a point, which is that the representative has been an active debater, both in this room and in the public, to use various prohibitions and prohibitions to solve social challenges, but now warns against it. That was my point, and it should be listened to, in the same way as one should actually listen to the representative Lundtigen himself and the representative Pollestad, who also in the aforementioned media essay says that they are skeptical even against the introduction of a begging ban. But when the representative Arnstad afterwards sidesteps a change in the tax-free quota, which the red-green government itself implemented with a change in the penal code and will prohibit people from asking for help, I start to fool. In any case, in my book, these are two very different questions, both of a principle nature and of a scale. Then I listened to the Minister of Justice, who was busy stressing that now it is not forbidden to ask for help. And that's right; it won't be forbidden to ask for help – from other people than the state. Perhaps the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party should reflect more on that. When I listened to it, I realized – I don't know why – that the beg debate has also been held in a country the Progress Party often refers to, in the United States, where one has tried to introduce the different places. It has been overturned by the Supreme Court, with reference to freedom of expression in the Constitution. It might have been interesting, if this ban is now introduced in Norway, if someone tried to try it against the same paragraph of the new Norwegian Basic Law § 100 – ‘Freedom of expression must be’, it says there. Whether there should be an exception for those who look on the street with a cup and a note, it is certainly worth discussing. Then it's that one can certainly commit some crime to any possible environment, including the begging environment, but it's not the same thing as banning begging. It is evident that crime can definitely be associated to a much greater extent, for example. motorcycle clubs, without a ban on driving a motorcycle in Norway for that reason. So you can ask yourself if there are other legal and harmless activities that the government wants to ban because the police «believes» that it is a strong link to criminal activity. In conclusion, I would say that after many years of economic crisis in Europe, where there has been great immigration, the movement of people across borders, to Norway, also poor beggars, Europe is now moving in the right direction, where growth is resuming, where poverty is beginning to decline. Last year there were violent riots around begging in Norway, this year it has been very quiet. I thought it was a shame, after we've managed to stand with our backs right against the forbidden path through such a difficult time, that the Stortinget now will let the dam break. It should close as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1342	The debate today is almost as if it is not the case today that municipalities have the opportunity to ban begging under specific conditions. They do – they only have to limit it to a time and to certain areas of a municipality. So the revolutionary new thing is not that the municipalities are now given the power to decide for themselves whether to ban begging, but they are given an extended opportunity to determine the geographical area to apply to the entire municipality, not just some parts of the municipality, at a given time. In many ways, it can be seen as a simplification and an improvement, and it also strengthens local self-government, in my opinion – and gives municipalities one tool to make use of it. In the proposition and in the legal text, there is no distinction between aggressive and not aggressive begging. The term used in the legal text is ‘begging’, and that is why my response to the representative Solhjell could be so clear. If the municipality so wishes, all forms of begging could be prohibited in the municipality. It means, as a matter of fact, that the municipality is given the opportunity to choose this even to a greater extent than is the case today. The second line of debate has been going around today is the proposal for a request for a government to come back to the Storting with a proposal for a national beggar ban. That proposal also said something about the scheme, namely that it should target organised begging, and that it should be protected against trafficking in human beings and other crimes. The specific arrangements for doing this must be made by the government to come back to the work that is now ahead of us. So I believe that there is a significant distinction between what Solhjell considers as limiting space people's access to the kingdom and what I believe this matter is all about, namely, having rules on what both space people and others can or cannot do when they are within the country's borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1354	The reasons why people have to beg are, of course, many and complex. Many beggars are in a difficult situation. Russ, mental problems, distress and poverty lead to beggaring being the only opportunity to raise and earn income. Of course, people in social distress must meet with dignity and social policy measures. But organized begging is primarily about criminal backers who engage in slavery and trafficking in human beings by exploiting poor women and children. This has been clearly demonstrated by Europol. Children are sold beggar bands between them at a high price, because they have good value for sales. This has been demonstrated by European police. It has also been identified by the Norwegian police, a link between travelling beggars and the practice of crime. It's about crimes like handicrafts, shoplifting, burglary and serious robbery. This also creates unsafe communities. Several foreign citizens arrive Oslo, the city in which I represent and live, with begging as their sole purpose. The number of handkerchiefs has exploded in Oslo in recent years. And as the Central Party representative said, we're comparing it to Berlin, even though Berlin has seven times as many people as Oslo. When the government now allows the municipalities to impose a beggar ban, this is not a revolutionary or anything new. Today there is an opportunity, but you want to have zones – what I would call a quasi-ban. Here we give the municipalities a real right of self-determination and a real opportunity to impose a ban. This is not about cleaning up the cityscape for inappropriate personalities. I'm not a fan of editing the streetscape or how Europeans are going to move in Europe. But being able to move freely in Europe doesn't mean you can move outside the law. The tigger ban is also about supporting an important principle of well-being: people should not beg. You can never completely eliminate distress and poverty from the streets – I think we all agree on that. But a rigorous and social welfare policy is important. By fighting the backers, one can at least ensure that no more are pushed into misery. Furthermore, Norway shall continue to contribute to financing targeted actions that can address underlying causes in the countries concerned. EEA funds and their use are crucial. Finally, I also look forward to the debate in 2015 on imposing a national beggar ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1375	Today's debate is largely about allowing begging for those in need. Another side of beggaring is not affected today. Through the media, we have over time presented challenges of begging. If this matter was just about saying yes to begging for those in distress, it might have been easy to say yes. But when we clarify another backside of begging, that's human trafficking, it's harder. The report from the Police Directorate, which was handed over to the Ministry of Justice, reveals the widespread exploitation of both children and adults in the context of begging. In Kripos’ report ‘Organised crime in Norway — Trends and Challenges in 2011–2012’, a recent reference was made to the exploitation of children in trafficking in human beings in the form of begging as a key challenge in the coming years. A similar report from the County Board of Stockholm of 13 November 2012 states that 166 children in Sweden are registered as suspected trafficking in human beings. There are probably not so many differences between Norway and Sweden that it should mean that the number is so much smaller here. A recent case for Bergen's district court includes a family of rooms who, according to the judgment, used four girls between 13 and 17 years of age. The girls must, among other things: have been forced to steal in shops, steal false gold jewellery, and beg. Typing alone does not help against poverty, but I am also very concerned about children, women or others who are being exploited in a cynical trafficking of human beings around begging.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1388	First, I want to say that I am very pleased with the commitment in this matter and that there are many who have taken the word. The Minister of Justice expressed a little surprise that I had counter-representations to this proposal, because we have suggested something of the same before. To that is saying that that's absolutely right, that's not a big difference, except that it's going to be national, it's a little bit bigger difference, but one proposal here is nothing very different than what we had. And then you have to ask yourself, why a new proposal? Ebbesen was up now and pointed to situations that none of us think are good, that no one wants. So they're being taken today. They're being convicted. That's what's the difference -- why this commitment to changing the law now, when we already have active legal regulations? A police high school scientist says it's just as wrong to say that everyone who begs is criminals like saying that none of them commit criminal acts. Nor can research into NOVA demonstrate any link between organised crime, with backers, and begging. The debate we have heard today clearly shows that this is a difficult debate. We are in difficult areas of morality and value perception. Network roles do not only include women. The Rom people have also received their dose, and it has received its dose. That is why I believe that this matter and what we are discussing today also place us as politicians in charge of how we talk about them as this bill is supposed to hit, and what words we use. I believe that the representatives of the Progress Party have not contributed to raising the debate in this respect through their rhetoric, as the representative, Mr Solhjell, also pointed out. I think it is regrettable that the committee's position says 'the last year's trend with increasingly aggressive begging and crime' when we have not actually been shown in this Chamber that this is progress. I believe this maintains and reinforces an unsound and frightening picture of the situation, an image that is more frightening and more unsound than what it is in fact and really is. Therefore, it is important for us to reflect on why this matter is coming now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1397	I have noticed all the assurances that have come during the debate about what this is not about. That's new to me, I have to admit. I can quote from the representative of Leirstein's public Facebook wall – what he wrote last year. It wouldn't answer Anundsen instead, so I'll try again: ‘On the way to Oslo. As I drove past the parking lot on Black Forest, I drove and counted 12 large vans belonging to a large group of gypsies. It will certainly be pleasant for residents and tourists to stay in the capital this summer... They have the government's blessing to come here and beg." A few days ago, Leirstein was at the end of the beg ban agreement, and now the Minister of Justice is standing here on the pulpit and says that no, no, Roma people are not part of the equation at all – this has nothing to do with the debate on Roma people, there are no such intentions. And it's very insulting when someone quotes the Minister of Justice's own Vice-Chairman, who has himself taken the words'refused roman access to Norway' in his mouth. So right at Mudasar Kapur could assure us that this has nothing to do with clearing streets and squares – no, not at all. If there is no question of clearing the streets for begging, there is reason to wonder why the representative Michael Tetzschner spoke to NTB two years ago, when the Right joined the beg ban, on 6 May 2012: ‘This is a clear signal that ordinary people can take places and squares back.’ What is this thing? In national media, the Right Party and the Advance Party say one thing: a story about the horde of romans – or Gypsies, as they call it – on their way to Oslo, which makes it intrusive for Norwegian citizens with the blessing of the red-green government, a story that streets and squares in Oslo are almost under occupation. But here in the main hall there is concern for the beggars, the concern of the beggars – that is what is the background to the beggar ban. That the Minister of Justice doesn't have the power to take the Vice-Chairman in his own party in defense, it's just noticing. But that's okay, because I don't think any of us would have had a stomach either.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1416	As others have pointed out, the relationship between begging and organised crime and trafficking in human beings has not been documented anywhere in the context of the situation in Norway. There is nothing to suggest that there is a strong link between those who have come to Norway and organised crime and trafficking in human beings. These are individual matters, if any. Then it is often referred to that you have many handicrafts. Then I wonder, do you think that by banning begging you will reduce the number of handkerchiefs in Oslo or in Norway? If you're going to reduce the number of handkerchiefs, the police, of course, need to put in a targeted job to take those who are doing this. That's what's the instrument, and you have the hall of praise as it is today. Then there is no doubt that the situation that has arisen with an open Europe and that you have many visitors, including those who come and beg in Norway, causes you to have problems locally. Then I learned that you should tackle the problems, do it the best you can by doing it at the lowest possible level. What the Biggest does now — and in particular with the warning to have a case on a national beg ban next year — is the exact opposite. National action is being taken to put a ban on a problem that could be solved much better locally. Then you have to work specifically. We have the legislation we need. We have the law we need. In that case, much more targeted work needs to be done – working with local authorities, working with the police – to address the real issues, which are about where there is crime, it is the one to fight, where there is prostitution, where you camp illegally, that is what you have to deal with. But there's no need to go in there and forbid it to sit completely silent with a cup in the public room in Norway to address those problems. This is a terrible sad day for the Storting and for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1429	That is said very much in the matter already, and I did not ask for the word to add new arguments to the matter. I think the different dimensions of the case are well-lit. I took the floor to address the proposals that are on the table by SV in the form of three loose proposals on this matter. I would recommend to the proposer to consider making a re-proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1436	The representative, Anders B. Werp, then requested that one of the proposals be converted into a transmission proposal. The representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1441	First, I would like to thank you for a good debate. There has been a more principled and tidy debate than I experienced in the last period. For, as someone has been here, we also had a difficult round when a ban was adopted in time and place – or regulation, as it was called – by the red-green government in the previous period. I'm glad you get a more fundamental approach to the matter now than what I experienced at the time, when I also took part in the debate. But I actually took the floor to the same thing that the representative, Mr Werp, had to say, namely, the proposals for SV. I would also like to signal that we want to support proposal No. 2, and I'd like to see it converted into a transmission proposal. Then let's look at the other suggestions. But I can already inform you that proposal No. 1 we're not going to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1448	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1462	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1476	The Committee has considered Prop. 57 L, Act of Conflict Council. It is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal in this proposition. The proposal proposes a new conflict resolution law and amendments to, inter alia: the criminal law, the criminal procedure law and the criminal enforcement law. In its work on the proposal, the Committee was made aware of an inconsistency between the comment in Prop. 135 L for 2010–2011 and the wording of the Act under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Therefore, the Committee also promotes proposals for changes to the legislative text as shown in the vote. In this proposition, the Government proposes a new conflict resolution law that reflects current practice and facilitates the future development of the conflict resolution system. The proposition targets both civil and criminal cases. However, the main emphasis of the proposals is on the use of re-establishing procedures in criminal matters. The proposals in this proposition are part of the follow-up to Prop. 135 L for 2010–2011, children and punishment, which was unanimously adopted by the Stortinget in December 2011. The increase thus adopted a new type of punishment, juvenile punishment, as an alternative to unconditional imprisonment and more stringent community penalties for offenders between 15 and 18 years of age at the time of action. In order to ensure a coherent chain of individualised response options anchored in the conflict council, the government proposes a new criminal law response for young offenders, referred to as youth follow-up. The new response shall be used for offences which are not so serious as to give rise to the issue of juvenile punishment. The implementation shall take place in the Council of Conflict in accordance with the same pattern as the Youth Penalty, but in most cases with shorter implementation times and less interventional measures. A lawbreaker shall, inter alia: attend a major youth meeting. Through a meeting with offended people and other interested parties, the offender must participate actively and through this will become more aware of the consequences of his crimes. In addition, the young person must demonstrate the willingness to take responsibility for his/her actions by agreeing to an obliging youth plan. The plan shall be designed individually and shall include follow-up and control measures. The plan will also contain support measures across sectors and levels of administration. The starting point for action will be the crime committed and the life situation of the offender. This means that both juvenile and youth follow-up are based on early efforts by both the justice sector and various municipal and state aid agencies. The response is based on experience from local cooperation models that have been tested to follow young offenders in the most appropriate way possible. Reference is made in particular to youth contracts, drug agreements and various forms of follow-up team. In addition to youth follow-up, follow-up in conflict advice is proposed as a new criminal law response. The reaction is directed at offenders over 18 years of age and, like youth follow-up, involves an extension of the current mediation system to include follow-up over a specified period of time in appropriate cases. I also point to the fact that the case has been at the hearing, and the main impression of the hearing is that the hearing bodies are in favour of the modernisation of the conflict resolution law and of the legislative proposals on follow-up in the conflict council as a new criminal law response.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1495	It's good again to discuss some things there's unanimity about! The Christian People's Party is very pleased with this matter and is pleased with the unanimity that exists. We are very positive about youth follow-up and for follow-up in conflict councils. We very much believe in recovery processes. It's good for the victim, it makes it easier to move on, and it's also good for the perpetrator, because he might then understand the seriousness of what he's done and find a new course more easily. So overall, we are very pleased with the direction that the Minister of Justice is pointing out. Youth follow-up, together with juvenile punishment, will be able to help young criminals on a better track, because early efforts are crucial when working with young people starting to get on the slope. It is very central to criminal children and young people that the responses of society are carried out by several agencies and at different levels of administration. Youth follow-up will also be able to contribute and contribute to this. Looking at the causes of crime among young people, they are complex and complex. Therefore, it is also important that measures to get young people out of crime or to prevent them from continuing on a path they seem to pursue are equally diverse, and it is therefore important that we adopt a new form of response today – as an addition to the juvenile sentence. Then I will point to prevention; I often do so in these debates. What I think is very good about youth follow-up, is that one uses the neighbourhood and actors around the perpetrators – family, friends and the network that are around – in their efforts to prevent them from entering a criminal racetrack. The fact that you have friends, family and people close to you who commit you makes it easier for you to get out of the criminal environment as well. In terms of prevention, I will also refer to www.ung.no. Various stories are presented about young criminals and the consequences of crime. One example is Astrid. She was denied further training in the military because she had been taken with traces of hashish in the urine sample. It was used as an example to her and also for how important it is to tell young people that the consequences of their actions can be quite great. It is therefore also important for young people to be caught before they end up on the road. Here a complete offer is absolutely crucial. It could be school, police, leisure clubs, etc. Young people must be offered leisure activities. So I want to challenge the Minister of Justice at that, to continue with what I feel has been a direction from the new government, that a desire to cooperate across the departments and various government councils. There's also an important field here. Finally, I would like to point out the economy of the conflict councils. I have been allowed to visit some conflict councils, and the feedback is that they experience that they have a pushed economy. Now, when one now hopefully also gets a better job for even more young people, one knows that for those who follow up the youth, it's a 24/7 life, and one has to be there when the young people need it. That's why it's pointed out that getting more youth coordinators and better economics is an important job for the Stortinget, and I challenge the Minister of Justice further on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1514	It is okay to come from a high-temperature beggar debate to a debate where there is much broader consensus, because this too is an extremely important political area. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good job. So I want to say a little about the importance of this matter. It is important that conflicts are resolved quickly at the lowest possible level. A recovery process in the conflict council, involving directly affected persons in the conflict and the community, can have both a mitigation and a crime prevention effect. I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee behind this position today. I think it's important, just as the committee also stresses, with reversing processes in order to take good care of insults and relatives. Although not all injuries can be repaired, a recovery process will give insults and relatives an opportunity to be seen and heard and to move on in life and out of a possible victim role. I think it made an impression on many of us when we saw the documentary about Kjetil Klungland, who met his father's killer in a process that he was dependent on to deal with the fear he had been through after he lost his father. I think that's an example of the importance that one on the victim's premises can offer this kind of recovery process. It can also contribute to changes in attitudes. The reason why we have an active criminal policy is, first of all, that we want to prevent crime from happening, and if we want to prevent it, is to influence the processes of perpetrators who have been convicted, after they have been convicted, also extremely important to change attitudes for the future. Therefore, the government has proposed to increase the use of conflict advice throughout the criminal justice chain. I want to draw some lines to the Youth Penalty, which the representative Ropstad was also in on. The Youth Penalty, which will come into force on 1 July of this year, is a very important and correct grip. It is aimed at relatively serious and recurrent crime committed by young offenders. The challenge with the juvenile punishment has been that the level of conviction will be high, while with this new youth reaction we are now reducing the level and providing an overall offer to young people who make wrong choices, so early that they must not have made the same mistakes many, many times and more seriously in order to get the follow-up that the juvenile punishment, or in this case the youth reaction, will be. So you get in earlier. In the past, I have been very concerned that we should steal the concept – it may be foolish to say that concepts should be stolen in a judicial debate – ‘early action’ from the knowledge sector, because exactly the same reasons for getting in early also apply here. We know that we would like to do a lot more on prevention than what we can do today. We know that we should be better at prevention in school, in kindergarten already and in the follow-up of families who are struggling. The introduction of the youth response, which the Storting will adopt later today, is at least a contribution to the fact that a process must not have gone far until it is followed up as necessary and useful. I am very pleased that the Storting combined, without significant debate – at least against the proposal – supports the work of the government in this proposition. Then the representative was Ropstad in the middle of cooperation across the departments. I believe it is a prerequisite that cooperation across departments is good – but not just at department level. Here, there will be very much talk of support equipment at the second level, but in the portfolio of the different departments. Looking across, finding the best solutions for the individual is very important, and as I said, I'm glad that we now have a total increase behind this change as well. Because it was a total increase that started the juvenile punishment, then on the proposal of the previous government, and it is now a total increase that decides to go even further in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1533	As has been said, there is broad agreement on this matter, so I will not lengthen the debate unnecessarily, but will only come with some superior considerations. We in the Workers' Party regard this proposition as a natural follow-up to previous work in this field. It again shows how radical suggestions – what was initially a radical idea – can gain broad support over time, that is, using recovery processes to the extent that they allow them to be used. Now we don't live in Cardamom City, but look at the tip one can say that it's not all things that it's reasonable or natural to leave to the police chief Bastian. Sometimes Aunt Sofie is the right person to deal with. One has underestimated the disciplining effect of social sanctions in a society that takes on a confrontation or settlement – in the face of someone who has been exposed to something and can take control of the individual. This proposition shows that there's something that's widened over time. Recovering processes help to give the victim dignity and power, and so does the one who has been in the process of demise, being confronted with the consequences of the demise itself. Youth follow-up is easy. It is said that ‘it is taken avillage to raise a child’. It's an expression that's also relevant. I would like to stress, like the Christian People's Party, the importance of civil society and community being involved when the social sanctions come into force. Prevention was promoted by the Council of State as central in that context. I totally agree with the Council of State. In this way it appears as a paradox that there has been a signal of cutbacks in the economy of the municipalities. That economy must be strong in order to prevent crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1548	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1562	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1576	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1593	On 9 November, as I said, 25 years have passed since the fall of the Berlin Wall. The people of East Germany had had enough of the oppression and gathered under the slogan «We are the people» – «We are the people». The force was irresistible, and the communist illusion was inconceivable against the peaceful desire of the people for freedom. There is very strong symbolism in this, and the 25th anniversary is a mark of democracy's victory over dictatorship. This interpellation is about East Germany’s spying against Norway. In the period 1969 to 1989, more than 300 Stasi agents reported Norwegian conditions. A total of 1,920 reports were sent to Communist East Germany, an enemy state. 85 pst. the reports concerned political issues, defence and intelligence in Norway. This invisible invasion of the country continued until the fall of the wall in 1989. Researchers at the Stasi Archive in Berlin believe that over 30 of the agents were Norwegian citizens. No one has been convicted in Norway. Have this relevance today, maybe ask someone. Absolutely – and to a very large extent, because this is part of our recent history that is mostly unexplored. The cold war has shaped our country both politically and culturally. We have to systematize and document the lessons from this period. What prompted dozens of Northmen to spy for an authoritarian social system and a hostile state, while they themselves could benefit from the freedom of a democracy and a rule of law? Was it so that as long as one was convinced that radical socialism represented the objective good, it could be accepted by some victims? The oppression was done in the name of the right doctrine, must know. Didn't you see the emergence of organizations like Stasi as alarming? When East Germany collapsed in 1989, it is estimated that Stasi had 91,000 employees and 189 000 unofficial agents. Stasi is considered one of the most effective intelligence organisations in its field and the East German population as the most monitored population ever. The first election in 2009 was the first to be born after the fall of the wall. They thus do not have their own reference points to the Cold War. A recent survey of Swedish young people shows that 22 pst. considers communism to be a democratic form of society. In the same survey, 95 pst. That they know about Auschwitz, but 90 pst. I don't know about Gulag. This may indicate that there are huge gaps in the emerging generation of basic knowledge about our recent history. This is reinforced by a lack of media and scientific attention on the theme. With some honourable exceptions, very few Norwegian journalists and researchers have been involved in this area. Last week, the government presented its action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism, an offensive and important document. It's interesting to read that many of the psychological and social factors that drive people into a radicalization process are now the same as before, regardless of political, ideological or religious driving forces. There is therefore a certain connection between the spy of the Cold War for Communism and today’s foreign warriors. So the Swarmerie of the authoritarian is not new, but if we are to prevent the swarm from becoming an active act, we need to understand more about the motivation for radicalisation. So we have an important source of this understanding in our recent history. I think we have a deep obligation to search for the knowledge, truth and experience that has shaped our country, even if it may be uncomfortable or difficult to access, and especially when this can contribute to a better understanding of how to meet the driving forces that threaten our values and our society. Large parts of the Stasi archive are intact. You'd think it was easy to identify the Norwegian spies. It's not that simple. The documents that Stasi was going to destroy in the chaotic months after the fall of the wall were largely from foreign intelligence. In addition, the vast scale of the archive needs to be taken into account. Today, the archive represents 111 shelf-kilometres of documents, as well as millions of photographs, film recordings, audio recordings and other objects. In addition, more than 15 000 large sacks of mashed documents have been found. This interpellation is about the Norwegian authorities obtaining the necessary keys to be able to search intently in this huge archive. Such keys can be found in the so-called Rosenholz Cartotheque, which the CIA managed in uncertain circumstances during the breakup of East Germany in 1990. This is a collection of microfilmed card cards with information about interesting people in Stasis's eyes and about real Stasi spies. The card contains three types of cards: it's F-16 cards, which is a gross list of interesting people for Stasi, it's the so-called F-22 cards with active agents, and it's the so-called statistical cards, which contain code names, agent category, date of acquisition, motive for acquisition, etc. These cards constitute a whole and any handover to Norwegian authorities must include all three types. The CIA handed over the German section of the map to Germany in 2003. Let me clarify one important thing: the Rosenholz Cartoteket is primarily a personal register and, to a lesser extent, a spy register. The main feature of the cartoteque is that it allows targeted and much more precise searches to be made in the large Stasi archive. Let me also briefly get into criminal law. Spying expires after 25 years. The Rosenholz Cartotek was largely updated the last time in early 1988. It's more than 25 years ago, and it probably weakens the value of the map as a source of criminal prosecution in isolation. The case of the wall on 9 November 1989 is probably of little relevance to criminal law. On the other hand, 31 May 1990 is important. This day the password ‘Wittenberg’ was repeated three times over the Stasis radio connection — so silence. It meant the immediate closure of all foreign intelligence activities. Stasi was from that momentary story. Six days earlier, the same thing had happened with East Germany's military intelligence. It is against this background that I ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: Will the Council of State take the initiative to obtain from the U.S. authorities all registered information on Norwegian citizens in the Rosenholz Cartoteket?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1629	Let me first thank you for the interpellation and also express that the interpellant shows a great deal of insight and understanding in this issue. Like the interpellant, I'm concerned that studies of history can generally better understand what happened during the Cold War, and also what factors affected events and development. The Federal Republic of Germany’s State Security Service and Foreign Intelligence, Stasi, had a large-scale activity against both its own citizens and against other countries — including Norway. Although parts of the archive, on which the interpellant was located, were destroyed in 1989/1990, most of it remains intact, and the preserved part of the archive represents 111,000 shelving metres — or 111 shelving kilometres, as the interpellant said — with documents, of which 39 million card cards. There are also 1.8 million photographs and tens of thousands of film and audio recordings. The archive material currently in the Stasi archive represents for researchers an important addition to other sources from Western countries during the Cold War. There is no doubt that in this material there is also information that can shed sound over Norwegian conditions. In Stasi, HVA was responsible for foreign espionage. WHAT led maps of its agents and so-called informal staff. The archives in Stasi were built up so that documents, reports, etc. refers to the code name and registration number of these. Without access to the card cards, such as: indicates which persons are hiding behind the individual code names or registration numbers, the content of the material contained in the Stasi archives is difficult to obtain. The original maps must have been destroyed after the fall of the Berlin Wall. However, already in 1988, HVA must have microfilmed the card cards and stored them on CD-ROMs. Without being fully aware of the circumstances, these should have been in the hands of the US CIA in 1992. It is this material that is called – as the interpellant has said very clearly – like the Rosenholz files. As you know, this is a total of 381 CD-ROMs with a total of more than 300,000 files. The Rosenholz files include three types of card cards: F-16, F-22 and statistical cards — the meaning of which the interpellant itself went through. It is therefore essential that you have access to all three maps to get a complete set of keys for the Stasi archives. In the merger of the two German states in 1990, a central authority in Germany was set up to deal with the Stasi archives. American authorities have given some other countries access to Rosenholz files about their own citizens. Germany itself received maps of German citizens in 2003. Denmark and Sweden must also have received maps of their citizens. After what I understand, it's been part of a criminal investigation. The question of obtaining Rosenholz files was also subject to an interview in December 2011 from the representative of Werp to the Minister of Justice at that time. She then expressed the positiveness of clarifying the possibilities for access. I have conducted some investigations in the department and can see that little has happened after that interpellation, but I can not explain the reason for it. I believe it is both right and important that an enquiry is now being made to the US authorities to access the three types of card cards that the interpellant has explained. In the department we are already preparing for such an enquiry. I also believe that the possibility of accessing maps for other persons associated with Norway should be examined, for example. by settlement, at the time the GDR foreign intelligence was operational. This is justified by the fact that such persons may have acquired Norwegian citizenship at a later date, for example. after the fall of the Berlin Wall. As far as this is concerned, I must, of course, stress that there is a great deal of uncertainty about how the US authorities will behave to give access to other countries' citizens linked to Norway. The primary objective of an enquiry to the US authorities will be to ensure an important historical material for researchers. The activities of Stasi are linked to the GDR, which collapsed in November 1989, i.e. almost 25 years ago. Any criminal offences, which were also dealt with by the interpellant, are likely to be criminally out of date already, but will in any case be in the course of a year. In this context, I must stress that it will in any case be the prosecution authority that assesses any decision to investigate if any information should appear before the limitation period that would update it. However, it cannot be ruled out that it could have consequences for some people, for example: for safety clearance if he is currently in a position where necessary. I have information that, just in advance of this interpellation, we have already put in place a number of measures to make contact with the US authorities. We don't know how they want to approach a Norwegian enquiry yet, but based on the fact that several other countries have access, I'm optimistic about the feedback that we'll eventually get from the US authorities. However, we do not know whether conditions will be imposed on how such material should be managed on the Norwegian side. Nevertheless, further management will need to be clarified in the forthcoming process. I would like to thank the interpellant Werp for his long-term commitment to the matter, and I would also like to stress that we will address this enquiry to the US authorities. Actually, the short answer to this interpellation could have been ‘yes’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1652	Let me first thank the Council of State for the answer. It's a very good answer based on a solid factual basis and a significant portion of initiative. I thank you for that. This is a joyful breakthrough in the work of lighting the cold war shadow pages and learning more about those who chose to go into the ministry of the dictatorship. The response of the Council of State – I believe – will also be read with great interest far beyond the borders of this country. The issue is widely addressed, but the follow-up from the authorities in Norway and in other countries has so far been missing. I believe that there is reason to hope that the road choices of the Council of State will be an example of follow-up, also in other countries. The result of the contact with the American authorities remains, of course, to be seen, but for my own part, I assume as a matter of course that the enquiry is assessed by a positive angle from our American friends. For decades we have been one of the closest and most loyal allies in the United States. Because of our strategic location, natural resources, security policy interests and deep historical ties, cooperation between Norway and the United States has been based on common interests and common benefits. I will follow this up as closely as I can from my point of view as a magnification representative. My follow-up question is about the availability of the Norwegian material from the Rosenholz Cartoteket – if provided by the Norwegian authorities. I assume that the material is made available to researchers as soon as possible, and in an appropriate way. Only in this way can we contribute to the knowledge and truth of our own close history. I would also like to recall the September 2011 Gotland manifesto, where prominent international researchers advised the Nordic authorities to make their respective Rosenholz material available for the Stasi archive in Germany. This is where the Rosenholz Cartotek came from, this is where the map belongs. Since 1991, the Stasi archive has managed 7 million requests for information, including 27 000 enquiries from researchers and the press. A solid framework is therefore in place to ensure both privacy, legal certainty and publicity at the Stasi archive in Berlin. What does the Council of State think of making the material available if we get it from the US authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1667	I fully agree that the starting point is that one should make the material available to researchers. That's some of the purpose of the enquiry as well, and that's also what I understand is a lot of the purpose of the interpellation from the representative, Werp: that researchers should have access to this material. I also believe that there is a lot of public interest in this material, so my starting point is that we should be able to generalise as much as possible the understanding and knowledge of these conditions. But there is a big reservation, simply because we do not know whether the Americans by possibly providing this information will also make conditions for their use. That's why I have to say that the next step in many ways is to get answers from the US authorities on how they will deal with our enquiry, and on whether there will also be indications on what kind of use you can base the possible extradition. I am of the general opinion in the kind of questions that the more we know, the more we can and the more we can investigate, the better it will be, also for understanding our relatively close history.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1676	"I love you all," said Erich Mielke when he realized that the end time of the GDR and the Stasi system had caught him. That was the other Stasi boss. He loved the 30 Norwegians who had worked for Stasi, but it was only Erich Mielke and Stasi who knew who they were. Today we still don't know who they are. But that knowledge is actually possible if you dig deep enough. In this way, the Government's response is very uplifting. Stasi wasn't just a police officer, it was a department in a dictatorship state. All opposition to the GDR was expressed as hostility to the people. The real people were never given their opinion in elections. The word ‘people’ was reserved for a lot of different functions in the administration apparatus. The serious thing is that there was never a proper legal settlement with the GDR state. In this way, this information is very interesting to get on the track. In the absence of a proper legal settlement, there is also information that the world community has not received on relations within the GDR. What the Norwegians did for the GDR is hard to know. Maybe we'll get the answer. But what we know is that spies who worked for the GDR, in their time, imposed enormous consequences on heads of state. I remember Günter Guillaume, who was spying in West Germany, which meant that Willy Brandt had to leave. What would have happened in our country if these 30 had been revealed in their time, you could just wonder. In addition, it is very important, as both the inter-pellant and the state councils have been involved, to identify what motivates people to join together with totalitarian regimes. It happened before the GDR regime, and it has happened afterwards, and it is a very interesting knowledge in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1689	Most of it has already been said in this case. The council has taken the matter a long way further. It's good, it's important, it's positive. Then, of course, we're all going to follow up on what's actually going on right now, but I'm very sure that this is now getting progress that allows us both to gain more knowledge about our close history and to gain more knowledge about radicalization processes – which is important to understand today. Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1696	I have registered a strong commitment from at least some in this room for this matter, which I believe is so important that it really deserved an even broader debate. But I would like to say that the matter would not have come a millimeter further if it had not been for the representative of Werp's involvement. It's his commitment that has made me very aware of the problem, and it's this interpellation that helps the government now act concretely to make contact with the US authorities with a view to getting the Rosenholz files delivered. I think it shows that interpellations can be used to achieve politically important things, but I also think it shows the importance of illustrating the involvement of big business representatives, and the impact it can have on completely concrete issues of great historical value and importance. So I thank the representative, Mr. Werp, for thanking me for a positive response, but I would also like to thank the representative, Mr. Werp, for putting this matter on the agenda again. I want to make it clear that he made a good attempt in 2011, too, without the impact being as strong, but it shows that it is useful. I am also very happy that no one in the room has at any rate raised the opposite, i.e. that nothing should be done to get hold of the Rosenholz files, and we take that with us in our follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1712	Then there's case no. 11 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1726	An overall committee joins Prop. 67 L for 2013–2014 on changes to the pollution law and the Criminal Procedures Act. These changes increase the level of penalties for illegal cross-border shipments of waste. New penalties are proposed for fines or prisons for up to two years, and the changes concern both illegal imports and exports of waste and attempts to do so. Illegal imports and exports of waste are a major environmental problem in many countries, and this is a serious crime that needs to be combated. The most common types of waste shipped are electronic waste, discarded vehicle, car parts and waste batteries — waste which may contain dangerous substances and which may harm nature and people if it is not properly treated. It may be possible to make money on waste, and therefore there has been a trend towards transport also out of Norway. The Committee is pleased that proposals for amendments made during consultations have also been included in the proposal. It is, as I said, an overall committee that agrees to this, and therefore I see no reason to do the debate any longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1739	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1753	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1762	There is no law today on the ritual circumcision of boys, and therefore the Christian People's Party is pleased that today, in a collective committee, we are committed to such a law. The background of circumcision is for some a religious act that is very central to their faith. For others, this is about tradition. In Norway we have an estimated approx. The aim of the law is to ensure that this is done in a proper and good way. As rapporteur, I would also like to thank the entire Committee for the way in which this matter has been dealt with in the Committee. There is a great deal of respect for the fact that this means a lot to some people, and for the Committee it has been important to get the law in place so that we ensure that these interventions are carried out safely – either with a doctor present, or with a doctor doing so. Although this intervention is not defined as a right to health care or is to be included in the free card system, it is important both for the Committee and for the Christian People's Party that self-payment contributes to the contribution of those who carry it out by paying some of it themselves. At the same time, it has been important for the Christian People's Party as a party to show that this self-payment should not be so high that people choose not to use the service, and choose to use other ways to get the operation done that are neither good for the patient nor good for the system. That is why I am pleased that I can, on behalf of the Committee, promote an overall committee proposal, in which together we follow the proposal in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1775	I Prop. 70 L for 2013–2014, if ritual circumcision, a number of principles are put to the test. It's a controversial topic, it's often mentioned in medical literature in the last ten years. Publications The Foreskin Quarterly in the United States and circumsition.org are mainly only engaged in cross-cutting issues. For the Workers' Party, it is ethically and politically demanding to regulate the cross-section of boys. It's an irreversible intervention. It's demanding because in political forums and in powerful halls you can't decide what people should believe, or what customs you should follow, even if you have a different conviction. In a modern Norway, I can't imagine that intersection would have been introduced in 2014, but the fact is something else. This is not a discussion about introducing something new or not. Cropping is a tradition that can be proven to extend 5,000 years back in time, and is strongly linked to religion and belief. The debate on an age limit is a real debate, from a perspective ranging from Nordkapp to Lindesnes, or within Scandinavia's latitudes. The debate is based on the principle of not treating healthy children – a principle that is easy to nod. The majority of people living within these latitudes are not affected by the traditions or by this belief and it may seem difficult to understand the dilemmas of their parents. Now we're going to act. Knowing the dilemmas people face, and the values we carry with us every day, we're going to have some principles established in law. Each year it will be approx. 2 000 Norwegian children circumcised. If we were to introduce an age limit, it would be a real ban, a ban that we know would have led to more foreign travel – for a questionable purpose – and increasing private practice. The Labour Party and the Left state that it is a goal for fewer children to be circumcised in Norway. We do not achieve that by shutting out insecure parents from the health care system or expelling children for increased risk interventions. These batches also state that good parental information is essential for reducing the number and for parents to feel safe and get answers to their questions. If you want to achieve a reduced number of intersections, you have to cooperate, respect inequalities and find solutions that we can work for together. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 19 assumes that children should be protected from all forms of physical or mental violence and abuse. When we know the state and how this works today, these parties believe that it would be irresponsible not to regulate ritual intersections. This is a matter that has been put in the drawer and pushed aside for too long. As I said earlier in my article, now is the time to act. A regulation in which we clearly say that the goal of reducing the number of intersections is an important principle. The Labour Party has also said that we want the proportion to be high because this is not a priority intervention, but not so high that we push someone away. This is a difficult balance, and fortunately we have the department in that decision. The aim is to ensure that as many children as possible are treated in the most secure manner possible and within the framework of the healthcare system. We know that child intervention is taking place, we know that it is being circumcised, and we know that there are trips abroad with a cross-sectional purpose. Then the question we have to ask ourselves is whether we're just going to be principled and set an age limit, or whether we're going to be pragmatic, look at different opinions, try to do something about it and make sure children's safety and health conditions later in life, according to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1796	The question of a separate law on the ritual circumcision of boys has been a very difficult and demanding matter since it was sent to the hearing of the Red-Green Government in April 2011. The idea of ritual circumcision touches one of the innermost things in many of us. It gives us ethical and moral challenges about what is right and wrong when it comes to letting newborns and healthy boys be circumcised for religious reasons. The path to the broad consensus of the Health and Welfare Committee has been a long one. The same thing has the rounds in several of the batch groups. Once we have concluded together that it is right to offer cross-sections of boys in the specialist health service, it is primarily the concern of the children that has been crucial. Many have images on the Internet from TV reports that show the intersection of children on a kitchen table, without pain relief and performed by someone without the necessary health skills. Crossing boys takes place around the world — also in Norway. Today, we are not going to decide whether ritual circumcision is to be prohibited, but whether the service should be offered within the Public Health Service. The Party supports the proposal for a legal framework ensuring that such interception is carried out in a sound manner. We want to avoid cutting without the necessary pain relief and skilled health professionals present. It is reassuring that ritual circumcision carried out by persons other than those resulting from the law will be prohibited and can be punishable by fines or imprisonment for up to two years. New parents who want to circumcise their child need to be thoroughly informed about the risk of complications that are actually related to the intervention. They also need to be briefed on the prosecution that will take place if they choose to allow such interception to take place outside the specialist health service or approved private clinics. It is important to stress that intersection is strongly religiously connected, and that it is a common intervention in large parts of the world. It is especially Jews and Muslims who are circumcised, but it is also common among Coptic Christians, Americans and Koreans. The World Health Organization estimates that 30 pst. all men aged 15 and over are circumcised. For the Progress Party, it is essential to point out that such interception should not take priority over other and much more important tasks in the specialist health service, nor should it result in the burden on the health care resources as a result of this practice. Therefore, we have argued that the proportion of the excess should be equal to the total cost of the intervention. Unfortunately, we have not received the support of the other parties. A single committee is reasonable enough to support the proposal that the self-payment for the intervention should not be included in the free card scheme, since ritual circumcision is not part of the ordinary healthcare system. There are several who have suggested that male-child circumcision should be prohibited — as should far more serious and grotesque sexual mutilation of young girls. These interventions are really not comparable. The injustice and bestiality to which many Muslim children are particularly exposed are so profoundly serious and shocking that it is hardly possible to grasp. Compared to this is the cross-section of boys for a little bit of action to figure out. The Government concludes that international conventions do not mean that this should be prohibited, nor that the Conventions prevent the adoption by law of restrictions as to who can carry them out. Ergo will be able to be punished, as I mentioned earlier, for the ritual circumcision carried out in violation of the law. In conclusion, the maximum level of safety in the use of adequate pain relief and skilled health professionals for young male children being circumcised is that behind the Advance Party’s support for this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1826	The Ministry of Health and Welfare estimates that it may actually be relevant to the interception of 2 000 new-born boys each year in Norway. Ritual interception of boys is increasingly offered in Norwegian hospitals, and most ritual intercepts take place outside the healthcare system. We therefore do not know today whether this procedure is being carried out improperly or with the necessary pain relief. Nor is there any law in Norway today regulating the ritual circumcision of boys. There is also no explicit prohibition that circumcision can be carried out by non-health professionals. We therefore wish to welcome this law. On the other hand, there are several laws that affect different aspects of ritual circumcision. In Jews, Muslims, Coptic Christians, Americans and Koreans, who have previously been mentioned from the pulpit, the intersection of boys' children is common. The reasons vary from religious to cultural and health reasons. In the case of health reasons, there are shared opinions in the professional community on whether it has a health benefit and on, for example, whether it has a health benefit. the number of cases of cervical cancer in women is lower if you are in a relationship with circumcised men. However, the purpose of the legislative proposal is to propose a legal framework to ensure that ritual circumcision is carried out in a fair and correct manner. The proposed regulation will provide clarity on responsibilities, consent rules and competence requirements and ensure adequate pain relief and follow-up after the intervention. The regulation will also ensure that the intervention is carried out by a competent person, in a proper manner. There is a need to provide security around the intervention – not least to protect the children. This is particularly important with regard to the interceptions currently taking place outside the healthcare system and outside the specialist healthcare system. The proposal for a new Act on the Ritual Crossing of Boys provides for the statutory organisation of specialist health services by regional health establishments to be properly carried out by those who wish to have a ritual cross-section. The general rule of the law is that ritual circumcision is to be carried out by a doctor, but it is also open for ritual circumcision to be carried out by others if a doctor is present and is responsible for the intervention. In addition to the proposal, amendments are also proposed. Those changes are that self-payment is required for the intervention when the intervention takes place at hospitalisation and is carried out out out out-of-patiently. Self-payment and the level of self-payment are discussed, and there are many opinions about this. Some disagreed that the intervention would be done without any kind of self-payment, others believe that it should be full self-payment, while others again believe that the intervention could be done by the public, against a lower self-payment. There is agreement in the Committee that self-payment should be introduced if the intervention is to be carried out in the public health and care services. The majority of the Committee supports the introduction of self-payment in order to carry out ritual circumcision. This is also to indicate that this is not part of the regular health service. Therefore, the proportion may be higher than in other health services. I believe that full cost coverage will be so expensive that the intention behind the proposal is at risk of weakening, namely that we want to prevent the irresponsible execution of ritual circumcision. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the offer can be made in all health regions, precisely to ensure that no illegal alternatives are given.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1847	There is a joint committee that today supports the government's proposal to ensure ritual circumcision in the health centre. It is mandatory for the circumcision to be carried out by a doctor, but the proposal also opens up for the intervention to be carried out by persons other than a doctor, if a doctor is present and is responsible for the intervention. I found it positive that one after the hearing has made this change. The laws also impose a requirement to ensure the necessary pain relief before, during and after the procedure. It is also underlined in the government's proposals. The reason why we have received this legislative proposal for treatment today is that the practice in healthcare professionals is that one no longer offers this because it is not within the area of care-for-responsibility. Then this offer becomes a priority. I attach great importance to the fact that the intervention is strongly religiously anchored. It's a common intervention in much of the world, which I think we have to accept in Norway, but we have to demand that it happens in a defensive way. Through international studies and systematic surveys, it has been shown that the cropping of boys is a safe intervention as long as the intervention is carried out by competent health professionals. The legislative proposal does well to ensure that the intervention is not considered contrary to international conventions, in particular the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights. I think it is positive that the legislative proposal contains a penalty clause in Section 9 of the bill, so that "the person who deliberately or grossly negligently infringes the provisions of the law can be punished". It is good that it is also clarified that there is an increased penalty framework if the intervention is carried out in a different way from that permitted by the law, and then with a penalty framework with fines or imprisonment for up to two years. The fact that we are now introducing a public offer at the same time as it is made criminal – that is, outlawed – whether it is carried out by persons other than doctors or without the presence of a doctor responsible for the operation will help together to ensure that ritual circumcision is defended. There has been a debate in the Committee on Own Resources, and I note that in the government there have not been a few on this, since they do not come up with a single piece of advice, but they leave to the Stortinget to learn about the level of own-payment. I support making it a self-payment. It has been difficult to figure out the level of your own payments. It speaks for a high payoff to signal that this is not part of the usual health supply, that it is not part of the priority that one or the other has to do in the healthcare facility, and one can discuss a high profile. At the same time, a high aspect can speak against what is the intention of the proposal, simply to ensure defence. It could be too large a sum. So it's talking about a low own-payment. The centre party's population has ended up with the fact that up to 50 pst can be reasonable. the costs are covered by own payments. That doesn't mean 50 pst, but up to 50 pst. It has also been set up by the Committee. In this case, it has been a debate in the Central Party's big group. We have not programmed a score point in this case. Nor has it been in party bodies such as the central government or the national meeting, but we have had a group view. I'm representing the multiples in the Center Party's cluster. We have also decided that our representatives are freed because we view it as a matter of the view of religious freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1867	The left supports the proposed law on the basis of a recognition that ritual circumcision is actually taking place in today's society. Although it may lead to serious complications, we believe it is important to take it seriously. In principle, the Left is very sceptical about the intervention of children without consent. This question, to which several other parties have referred, has created a great deal of commitment. We have debated it in national meetings over the last few years. It's been taking care of the children. It's been about religion and tradition, and it's also about health care priorities. It puts the parties to the test and is thus an important debate in our multicultural society. We noticed the child ombudsman's comments in committee hearings and also health care objections. We've also heard different voices from the different religious environments that use ritual circumcision today, and I must say it's a pleasure to record that there's also a development within these religions moving away from the intersection. It's hopefully also a matter of time. With regard to the issue of price – when we first accept that we regulate this in public form – the Left has said that we look at this in line with cosmetic interventions, and that we would have preferred that this be done at self-sufficiency, but when we at the same time accept that it should happen in public health services in some form, we say that it should happen after a self-payment of at least 50 pst. We encourage the government to find a price that is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1878	In this case, I think all the parties of the Great One have reflected on what is a real dilemma, because on the one hand we hold the right of high children to decide on themselves, to have influence on important choices for themselves, as far as possible, and because, on the other hand, in our increasingly diverse societies, we also place great emphasis on the respect that the majority and the big community must show for different minorities, not least the different life attitudes that we have. The principle starting point for the dilemma is still very clear from SV. It's that we can never accept that religion is used as a reason to cause children unnecessary pain and risk. When we vote in favour of the government's proposal today, it is because the government has been so clear on – and I share the assessments – that the legislative proposal available here does not conflict with the obligations we have under the Children's Convention, and that the actual outcome of the decision we are making today is going to be a more sound, safer and less painful treatment of the boys concerned. For today’s situation, we are not faced with a choice of whether or not to introduce ritual circumcision in Norway. We are faced with a choice that is about how to deal with the ritual interception that is taking place in our country. Is it to be done within a safe public health system or, as at present, to be carried out outside official control and thus at greater risk of pain and complications for boys? The size must have a consistent approach to such a question. Then we believe from SV's point of view that safe conditions, the presence of doctors and pain relief are a clear step forward from what is today's situation. I believe that the proposal that will be put forward here later on on on an age limit is precisely out of line with the test that is about the consequences of this. The actual impact of the age limit or prohibition is likely to be that several male children are being circumcised under unacceptable conditions. We're in the situation that no country in the world has any ban on the ritual circumcision of boys. We should not impose such a ban in Norway either, but it is important to stress that the clear majority of the Grand Duchy is joining today, is not a recommendation on ritual circumcision. It is a recognition that there is a religious ritual that stands strongly in some religions that are also represented in Norway, and an attempt to ensure that we receive as safe and sound a treatment as possible for all Norwegian children. That is why I believe that what the government has come up with is a proposal that combines, in the best possible way in today's situation, what is most appropriate for children, while at the same time respecting and respecting the diversity we have in Norway. I noticed that in the hearing in the committee, the Children's Ombudsman, who has been critical of this, several recordings, which I thought were good. One was that they asked for a follow-up evaluation of the law change that is now taking place. There is consensus in the committee that we will ask for this. The second was the importance of informing parents about the actual risks involved in this intervention. I would just like to stress to the Minister of Health – this is agreed by the Committee – the importance of that information being provided and being good. I believe it is a task for the Minister of Health to ensure that it is followed up. In the case of the excess, SV considers it reasonable that there is a excess for intervention which is not medically necessary. We think, however, that it was a little helpful for the government to leave that assessment to Stortinget, so we want the government to come back with an assessment of it. It must combine the consideration that self-payment should be as high as possible, given that this intervention is not medically necessary, but on the other hand does not work against the purpose of the scheme, which is that the ritual circumcision of the children should be carried out in the most secure manner possible. So we ask the government to come back with proposals that take care of and find the right balance point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1893	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the rest of the Committee for their good cooperation on this matter. Ritual circumcision of boys has been practiced in religious context for several thousand years and is a tradition with deep religious motives for the Jewish and Muslim population in large parts of the world. In addition, there is tradition more elsewhere. As far as I know, there is no ban on ritual circumcision in any country. In Norway, about 2,000 Muslim and Jewish boys are circumcised each year. I understand that many people think ritual intersections of boys are problematic. As stated in the proposal, and also in the Committee's position, issues of ritual circumcision raise a number of difficult health, legal, ethical, economic and priority issues. I still believe that the consideration of the boys must be the decisive argument to regulate this intervention. As a result of the fact that hospitals stopped offering the intervention a few years ago, we no longer know where or how this intervention is carried out, or whether it is carried out by competent personnel. So the way I think about it, it's necessary to do something about today's situation. It is in everyone's interest that ritual circumcision is carried out in such a way that the boys are not exposed to pain or risk of injury. I am therefore pleased that the Health and Welfare Committee has joined the proposal in the proposal. The bill implies that ritual circumcision as a general rule is to be carried out by a doctor. It also opens up the possibility for other persons to perform the procedure, but only if the doctor is present and responsible for the procedure and that this is done under the law. There is consensus in the trade unions that ritual circumcision carried out in a proper manner by competent personnel poses little medical hazard to the boy. In addition to regulating who is to be able to carry out the intervention, regional health establishments will also have an obligation to organise the specialist health service so that those who want to do so can be properly involved in the ritual circumcision of boys. This will ensure that an adequate offer is available. As I consider it, the Committee's proposal will clarify who can carry out the procedure, clarify the responsibilities, provide the necessary rules of consent and information, ensure adequate pain relief and ensure follow-up after the procedure. The regulation will also make it easier to sanction illegal interception. I notice that the Committee is concerned that an follow-up evaluation will be carried out after the regulation. Of course, I'll follow up on this in the usual way. So to the question of self-payment for ritual circumcision carried out under the direction of the public specialist health service. An overall committee has agreed to the principle that an own-payment should be introduced in order to have this intervention carried out. With regard to the amount of the own-payment, I notice that there are different views in the committee. In line with what is stated in the bill, I will return to the final determination of the own-payment in relation to the ordinary budgetary work. Then, of course, I will focus on the assessments and views expressed by the Committee. The regulation proposed by the Committee will, in my view, take good care of the boys, while taking seriously the fact that ritual circumcision is a very central and important religious tradition for the Jewish and Muslim population in Norway. I think it is particularly important that the Committee is so united in this matter. It has great significance for the people involved. It is one way for the Stortinget to state that Norway is a country that wants everyone to welcome and to take into account inequalities. The attitude and debate here in Stortinget show that you have the same respect. I believe that part of the debate that has taken place in public space, especially in the social media, is a challenge compared to being an inclusive society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1917	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1920	Circumcision of boys is ethical and politically challenging. It's about giving acceptance for irreversible surgery without a medical indication to little boys, who don't have consent skills. All Norwegian medical environments, with the exception of the Sondermorföreningen, have advised against doing so on young children. So the question is, does the Minister of Health think that it's a goal to reduce the number of male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female male-to-female?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1925	What is important is that parents are given good information about the risk of such an intervention, such as all medical interventions, in advance of taking this decision. We will achieve this much more by making this a public health service offer, where we have the opportunity to regulate that kind of information. It's already part of our health legislation. In this way, you will also get better information about that consent. But I don't want to judge the judgements that the parents make themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1930	The Minister of Health has argued on several occasions for why it is right to have young people, who cannot refuse, circumcised. One of his arguments has been that there are no other countries that prohibit the circumcision of minor boys. It has been produced as a problem if Norway were to introduce something like this first. Clearly, the Minister of Health thinks it is problematic whether Norway is first out to put the legal protection of young people before the freedom of religion of parents. I would like to ask the Minister of Health to carry out a thought experiment – and I assume that he can take care of this and does not reject it as hypothetical. I want him to realize that, in five years' time, a lower age limit has already been introduced for non-medical grounds for cropping boys in tone-tiring countries such as France, Germany and England, as well as in Sweden and the United States. Does the Minister of Health think that it would have been as untimely as it is now to introduce a lower age limit in Norway in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1937	I mean – and I mean that in principle – that we always have to look at what you do in other countries, but in these kinds of issues that are ethically difficult, medically challenging and politically difficult, Norway has to make its own choices. So does one, I mean, very clearly, for example. when discussing biotechnology issues. If one always sets the limits from where other countries set their borders, there are no questions that really need to be discussed in political and democratic bodies, because there will always be other countries such as the United States. opens up to different types of methods than we do in Norway. So I mean, yes, it's important to look at what other countries do, but it's also important to make your own assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1942	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1947	The topic of cropping small boys has long been involved in me, and I have participated in countless debates on this – many of them with Bent Höie, now as Minister of Health, and formerly as the leader of the Health and Care Committee at Stortinget. Some of what bothers me is the unwillingness of both the Minister of Health and many others to discuss whether it is in principle right for young children to be subjected to an operation aimed at removing a functional and protective part of a healthy sexual organ, without the ability of the child to neither consent nor refuse. Young children cannot protect themselves from physical abuse, and that is exactly why it is so important that we grow up and protect them from threats as a society. I clearly believe that being subjected to circumcision is a type of infringement, although I do not believe that the reason why it is done is to do damage. When people believe in one religion and command of one, they follow these religious bodies to fulfill the will of a higher power. It is well and good as long as there is no exception, as long as others must not suffer as a result of religious acts and rituals. With circumcision, the limit of what has been done when it comes to the consequences of religious acts for other people has been passed. Fortunately, in several other countries, there are many who believe the same thing, and there are more and more who argue and work that a lower age limit is set for non-medical grounds for cropping boys. I mean this age limit must be 18 years – the same age limit as driving a car, drinking alcohol and, for that matter, taking breast enlargement surgery. This is a choice that will have a big impact on the individual. Therefore, the good guys get to choose themselves when they are competent. A notable argument against an age limit for this intervention is that no other country has introduced it. Every progress has been made because someone has done something that no one else has done before. That's the word. Takes a step forward, and someone has to start. Norway is a transitory country, which is responsible for setting the rights of young people first, and we can do that in this case as well. Then we don't have to legitimize the operation of the circumcision of young children by making it a public offer. In the other countries where the theme of the circumcision of boys is discussed, it is used as an argument against an age limit that something like this does not exist in other countries. The fact that Norway is moving ahead could lead to other countries coming quickly. This I am for my own part not in doubt about. I take this with me, on behalf of Heidi Greni, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and myself, presented to introduce a lower age limit for not medically justified circumcision of boys.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1958	The representative of Jenny Klinge has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1961	This is no simple matter, for it is all about everything from freedom of religion to the protection of children, and it is about what we in a modern civilised society should allow of religious practices and traditions that have great consequences for young people who do not have the opportunity to influence their own situation. Even I have stated that I do not have the conscience to vote in favour of the majority's proposal. It is obvious to me that we as legislators and as adults have a responsibility to protect the legal security of young people. In my opinion, the cross-section of boys is contrary to the objective that kids should not be subjected to abuse. The Minister of Health and the Health and Care Committee now believes that cross-cutting boys should become a public offer. But an assault is still an assault, even though it is partly financed by the state, and carried out by the state. It just puts even more on the tip how bad it is that the crossbreeding of boys is allowed in Norway. The proposal legitimises the current practice of parental control over the body of young people and may expose them to interventions that are not medically justified. Then we all agree that the worst thing is when it happens on the kitchen bench at home, without anesthetic and without the supervision of health professionals. I am promoting today, together with two other Central Party representatives, a proposal to introduce a lower age limit for non-medically justified male circumcision. I wish more could stand up for the rights of the kids. There are many more who have said that they think it should be an age limit, but unfortunately it seems that it is difficult for most people to flag in this difficult matter. Some people will feel that this is mainly about freedom of religion, and that an age limit will mean that freedom of religion is violated. But then it is appropriate to stress that freedom of religion should not only apply to adults. Religious freedom should also apply to the young to the greatest extent. Here the boys are being subjected to a lasting change that will follow them all their lives, even if they choose to change religion at a later date. Little kids can't protect themselves from assault. That's why we've changed the law on the physical punishment of kids. There aren't many decades since it was allowed to drive their kids here to land. It is, of course, forbidden because we do not want young people to be subjected to such an abuse. It's a paradox to me that if I, as a parent, give my boy a dash to my butt, I can be punished for it. If one performs an operation without anesthetic, one cannot be punished for it. Of course, I want to completely distance myself from any physical punishment, but it is time for Norway to introduce a lower age limit for this intervention, and it should be the same as the age of authority, which is 18 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1976	This is, of course, an ethically challenging matter. It's a question that, for most of us, is very strange, and so we react in many cases to say that it's something we don't want. What we're facing is about removing part of a well-made boy child that's part of the creation. As many people have been involved, there is something that is not comparable to the sexual mutilation of girls. I want to say that characterizing this as an assault, I feel like taking too strongly in, because as far as my knowledge reaches, it can't be said that there's something that causes these guys a lasting problem. It is a fact that many are doing this on the basis of their religious beliefs and traditions on young boys while they are newborns. To say that the religious tradition should not be used as an argument for causing pain to children, I agree to this point, while at the same time there is a question of how liberal society we are going to have. When we know that imposing an age limit is the same as excluding people with a religious conviction from living legally in Norway, it stands for me as so strongly that there is something I cannot support. The fact that the Committee and the Council of State propose that this should be put into order, and that if one does not act in an orderly manner, there should be punishment behind it, I think it is a worthy compromise. One might hear the Council of State's assessment of how to ensure that this is done properly. It states that it shall be punishable if it is not carried out by ‘medical doctors or with doctors’. I just have to say that the way this is handled, I think it's good. The compromise on payment, I think, is wise. I want to end up with the Central Party member in the Committee, Toppe, who, in my opinion, represents the view that I also have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e1989	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2003	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2017	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2026	‘The person waiting for something good is not waiting for it to be forgotten.’ This is a saying that fits unusually well today, and that shows that politics is a exercise of patience. The rights attaching of BPA have a very long history. Nevertheless, I do not choose to focus too much on history. Those who have been concerned about this know it well. For those who don't know it so well, it's probably the most important thing that it now finally comes into place. The law to be adopted today comes out of a consultation proposal sent out of the red-greens just before the elections, based on the principle of ‘within the current framework’. User organisations had a lot of input and demands for changes and improvements that they thought needed to be made. The same organisations have been very impatient since the new government came into place and the right-holding was part of the government platform. Since both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have for many years wanted a right-wing party, it is not hard to understand that expectations were high. Many were also pleased when it turned out that the government intended to deliver the bill before the summer. This was also a challenge for the Committee: organisations' wish to take decisions before the summer to address the Committee's need for sufficient time to deal with the legislative proposal properly. It is therefore important for me to commend the Committee for its willingness to extend far in order to achieve this, even if it meant a lot of late hours and mail exchange, reading and writing – even on weekends. It is almost necessary to be present at a committee meeting in order to understand how much work is being done in the comments and proposals in a case. We can discuss and pin single sentences and single words – even on dots and commas. It's important that what we agree on comes out clearly, and that what we write is perceived and understood as intended. In this case it became a little hectic in the last day – I think I have the committee with me when I say it was not quite perfect. We would like to have a little bit better time to write down some places, rather than many single comments that much says the same thing. However, we agree on the most important thing, namely that changes to the patient and user rights law, including the right to user-driven personal assistance, are adopted. Today, we are going to decide to give persons with a long-standing and high need for personal assistance the right to BPA, i.e. services involving practical assistance and training, contact with support and relief for parents with children with disabilities under 18 years of age. Today, there is a great deal of consensus about what a great tool BPA can be. It hasn't always been like that. Some municipalities have been positive to BPA for many years, others hardly know what this means. Many thousands can now, according to calculations, come under this right. For municipalities, there are a lot of applications, a lot of them need to be trained, and a lot of them need to be hired. It is our heartfelt desire and hope that this will be as good as we have dreamed of. So I would like to comment specifically on the rule on calculating hours for the relief of children under the age of 18. Initially, relief was not even intended for the scheme, but was introduced by the Right Party Government. At the same time, it is important not to undermine adulthood and the need for assistance should be assessed according to the needs of the adult child. Where hours are to be considered in such a perspective, support contacts will be more appropriate, in addition to other assistance provided by parents in the past. The 18-year divorce is meant as a strengthened right, not a weakened one. I note that the Workers' Party and the SV in their comments write that they are ‘enlightened’ when any extension of the right will come, and indicate that one can easily ‘believe that this is only a postponement of indefinite questions for an indefinite period’. It is possible that the SV and the Workers' Party speak from their own experience. For the Progress Party and the Right, it is important that we now closely monitor developments and that the law and the system be evaluated in order to see to what extent the proposal meets the needs of the users. An follow-up evaluation will capture any weaknesses or unintended rashes. The next step is to provide clear guidelines, so that the scheme is as similar as possible in municipalities, and so that the scheme becomes as we would like it to be: a system in which the user has the role of supervisor and assumes responsibility for organisation and content according to his own needs. The user can control what the assistant will do when and where within the time frame. The role of the manager shall allow the user to be the head of his own life and in his own day-to-day life. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2059	The system of user-driven personal assistance – BPA – has as its primary objective freedom, seaworthiness and dignity for the individual. It is a system for those who have a need for help and, like others, have the opportunity to live as they wish. It is important for everyone to be the head of their own lives – as the case-rapporteur also said. Having a job, could take education, have a meaningful leisure time and be active in society is important in order to be able to be just that. A personal assistant – with whom the user is responsible and in charge – gives many disabled people the opportunity to live an active and committed life. Within a given framework, the user may control what the assistant is to do and the times at which the assistance is to be provided. BPA operates in such a way that the user, with the support of others, organises and manages the work of his assistants. It is important to stress that the municipalities already have a clear obligation to offer user-driven personal assistance. What we are adopting today is an individual right to BPA for users who meet defined requirements. Whether the government has hit the BPA in a good enough way, there are different opinions about. User organisations are moderately satisfied. The Labour Party believes that the right to BPA can be even more offensively designed, and we have a proposal in the vote on it. Significant work has been done in recent years to develop a system of rights-based BPA. The red-green parties intensified this post-election work in 2005, and the National Labour Party meeting in 2011 agreed to establish a right to BPA for users with a high level of assistance needs, and that costs should be investigated and discussed with the KS, user organisations and employee organisations. This work was the basis of a proposal for a right-holders' attachment submitted by the Ministry of Health and Health in the spring of 2013. I have noted that the two government parties in the comments on this matter are trying to present themselves as heroes, and the red-green parties are almost as opponents of the scheme. Firstly, that story is false, and secondly, it is an unusually easy way of dealing with a very important matter. I notice that the case rapporteur is dampening the rhetoric a little bit, but if we look at history and learn from it, it might be okay with a little reluctance. I would like to point out that all parties have acknowledged that the issue of the right-holding of BPA raises many issues, both in terms of scale, device, limitation and costs. It's sometimes given itself different expressions. For the treatment of Report. St. 40 for 2002–2003, Destruction of Disability Barriers, the Right and Christian People's Party was extremely sceptical about the rightful attachment of BPA and formulated the following: «The Committee's members from the Right and the Christian People's Party believe that legislating the right to BPA raises both fundamental and practical problems.» Here the two parties state that the scheme will have major distortive effects and that it violates the principle that it is the municipality to choose the form of assistance. In connection with the treatment of Report. St. 25 for 2005–2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning, the Progress Party opposed the idea of an upper age limit for the scheme, while the current bourgeois government – including the Progress Party – now believes that users over 67 years of age should not be entitled to BPA. In other words, it is timely to remind you that all the parties, including the Workers' Party, have for periods of time packed to find the right arrangements for the BPA scheme. I think we should all now show a little humility, and make sure that the BPA system is as good as possible, for the benefit of the users. The Labour Party also sees BPA as part of a much wider effort, where, as a society, we need to have far stronger and more focused efforts towards individuals and groups that need extra community support and help. With this, I address the proposal that the Workers' Party is promoting alone and those that we are promoting together with SV in the setting, and that describes concrete improvements in the government's proposal for BPA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2086	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2089	The right-wing Party government aims to create the patient’s health system. We have a vision of a society where everyone can participate. It is this vision that is the basic plan of the government's health and welfare policy, and it is also reflected in the important matter we are now debating. User-controlled personal assistant, BPA, is an alternative way of organising services and personal assistance for people with disabilities, persons with a high need for assistance in their daily lives, both inside and outside the home. The rights attaching of BPAs shall contribute to facilitating their achievement, in line with others in society, of their objectives. A user of BPA has the role of head of labour and thus assumes responsibility for the organisation and content of the service, according to his own needs. In other words, the role of the manager gives users the necessary influence over their own life situation. For each user, the right to BPA will mean more predictability and a more active and independent life, despite its disability. The law-enforcement of BPA is simply a ‘exemptive tool’ that gives disabled people the same space for action for life as others, and the law is – to say it very carefully – far overtime. Already in 2004, the Stortinget asked the government to promote legislation on the right to user-led personal assistance. The Bondevik II government followed this up in 2005 in the state budget for 2006, without the follow-up of the government of Stoltenberg II, the red-green ones. Afterwards, a long fight was started to put in place a rights fixation of the BPA. This battle was specifically taken and supported by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party here in the Storting, but it had to be a government shift to put in place today's law-enforcement. For that very reason, and because it has taken so long, the government chose to start from the model that has been out of consultation. This was because the proposal should have an opportunity to be dealt with by Stortinget before the holiday. It is therefore good that the proposal for a hearing fails to meet the government's ambitions sufficiently, and that the government has therefore chosen to meet the majority of hearing bodies and extended the right to include support contacts and relief for parents with children under 18 years of age with disabilities. I am also pleased that the government will evaluate the scheme later and assess whether the rights should be extended further. The members of the Health and Welfare Committee of the Right Party and of the Progressive Party believe that this should be seen in the context of the follow-up evaluation to be carried out by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, including: shall consider the extent to which the proposal meets the needs of users. To this end, the members of the Committee of the Right and the Advance Party expect user organisations to have their views and perspectives taken into account in the evaluation. In other words, the legalisation of BPA becomes a ‘exemptive tool’ that gives people with disabilities the same space for action for life as other citizens of the country. It's about predictability for people who already have a very tough life because of their disability. I dare say that this will be a win-win-thing for the whole community.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2110	For many, this is a big day, getting legal rights to BPA for people who need a lot of help and assistance. I agree with those who have said that here we have probably packed many, but I still think it is good that we now gather to get a rights fix. The rights attaching of user-driven personal assistance shall contribute to facilitating disabled persons with a particularly high level of assistance to achieve their goals in their lives. The system should be able to give people a more meaningful and active everyday life where they can be allowed to participate in the same line as you and I can participate. People with disabilities, like all of us, must be able to live as independent a life as possible. A user-controlled assistant will help users and relatives to get the most normal life possible, and a user-controlled assistant should be able to do all the tasks that the user himself is unable to do because of his disability. It is important that the scheme be evaluated in order to be able to adjust and to find a form that will benefit users. The Christian People's Party is also committed to being able to train the users who are themselves going to hire their people, to become good employers and take good care of their employees. It is a challenge for the Christian People's Party that the arrangement ends at 67 years. Here we have to be willing to continue looking at how this is going to be in the long term, because people get older, including those who have a functional challenge. The treatments are better, and many people experience that they actually also want to have an active life after they're 67 years old, and they want to participate in society in the same way as others, who become more and more active at the age of 67. Quality of life and mastering must be the purpose of the scheme. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that there will be an individual right, as disabled persons are as different as all of us, and need to get organized service that only applies to them. We think that's an important part of getting a decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2123	The centre party would like to welcome this bill to correct the provision of user-controlled personal assistance to users with long-standing and high needs. The center party has programmed that we want to confirm the right to the provision of user-controlled personal assistance, and we think it is very good in the billing proposal that has been made by the government after the hearing. In comments on the particular features of the scheme, the central part has an influence on the user's own life situation, so that the user has an active and most independent life in spite of disability. User control is therefore entirely fundamental in this way to organise the services. We distance ourselves from the development of the services where this user management is being hollowed out, for example. by creating settings as BPA coordinator e.g. I therefore believe that the right to BPA should usually be granted to users who themselves can hold the role of labour manager – except for children under the age of 18 where parents or supervisors want and can hold the role of labour manager. The central party agrees that a framework for which rights are applicable must be defined and set in place, and we are certain that the right-holders' rights will be added to and not replaced by the municipality's obligation to provide user-controlled personal assistance in the Health and Care Services Act §3-8. The municipality shall continue to have an obligation to assess whether it is preferable to offer BPA, including to users who do not fulfil the conditions of the court. The centre party argues that the right-wing attachment should apply to them with a long and high need for the service. We believe that this right should not be defined by an exact hour limit because it is not appropriate to reach those people who need the most. An hour limit may also result in inappropriate adjustments that will be able to guide the assessment of needs. We think, as the Health Directorate has also suggested, that the right to BPA should be based on an individual assessment of the users' needs and wishes and professional judgements. The central part also emphasizes that many municipalities in the listening round have just stressed that they want guidance counsellors over a fixed number of hours. We provide the services covered by the courses of practical assistance and training, support contacts and relief for parents with home-built children under 18 years of age with disabilities. We also suggest that the dishes should initially not include services that require more than one service provider at the time, or at night. The government has proposed an exception for users with a continuous need for night tests or for several service providers present to be included in the court. The central party does not share the government's view of this, and we think there should be no exception. The need for BPA at night and, where necessary, for more service providers must be assessed on the basis of the municipal obligation to provide services where appropriate. The centre has noticed that a large number of hearing aids do not support the proposal to exclude users over 67 years from a right. Among other things, the Health Directorate has stated that they do not see that the BPA scheme is becoming more expensive if a person who already has BPA continues to have it after reaching the age limit. It is also highlighted that BPA can lead to more people staying at home. So we're not going to support an absolute age limit, and we think that the people who fulfilled the conditions for a right to BPA before the age limit is reached must have the right to continue the arrangements if the conditions are otherwise present. The centre party is concerned that the introduction of a right does not rock the current system, so that even those who fall outside the scope of the right should be allowed to receive BPA if the municipalities consider it to be a priority. This must follow the evaluation in particular and that developments are followed closely. The monitoring and supervision of the scheme is also important to ensure defence systems for both users and assistants. Clean contractual relationships between municipalities and any private suppliers are important. The centre party therefore believes that clear requirements have to be satisfied by the fact that the Norwegian standard is based on the provision of BPA, and that there are requirements for collective bargaining agreements. We're making suggestions on that. We also believe that clear demands must be made on the supervisor in terms of regulations. With this, I will deal with the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2149	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2152	The left has been committed for many years to attach rights to user boards, or also called citizen boards, personal assistants. This is about giving people with reduced function more influence and control with their own lives. It's about putting people first. For many of those involved, there is a great difference between accepting a defined offer and being able to organise yourself where, when and how one needs assistance to perform necessary tasks in everyday life. This is therefore a law of great importance to the dignity of individuals. In addition to being of great importance to the individual, user-driven personal assistant is also an example of how we can better organise ourselves for the benefit of the individual at the same time as building on a Community ideal. One of the actors here, Uloba, is organised as a cooperative, and contributes in many ways to innovation and development both for the individual and not least for the public service. I want more of these innovations. This arrangement challenges us in many ways. We get a center around the individual user that is completely different from what our traditional systems have been busy about. Many people who announce a BPA job have also received many applicants. This shows that the jobs can be attractive, depending, of course, on the quality of the job and that it is a good employer. We have also seen very fruitful examples of what a supervisor and an assistant together can create and do. All in all, this is a happy day. At the same time, there is also a major challenge for many municipalities, who have offered this scheme to a small extent and may have had some difficulty accepting it. We are facing a major task of implementing the scheme for more and more users and in more and more municipalities. Some of that reason doesn't want the Left to go too far now. The system needs to be firm, and we don't go too fast. At the same time, we are concerned that this system should be recognised and expanded, but that we should spend some time extending it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2163	There's a tendency that important things are currently ending up in a long debate about history writing. I want to warn you, because then we're spending valuable time discussing where we're going. But for the sake of order, I would like to point out to the post that the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen had, which I think well sums up that it is not that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy has a monopoly on having been for BPA. On the contrary, the roles have changed a little bit. Various parties have been drivers, and unfortunately there have been too slow under different governments. Then we have to be able to regroup and make sure that we get the important rights fixation in place now. We are pleased that we are there to take some decisions related to rights fixing in the Storting now, but there are also significant shortcomings in what the government has presented. We are also concerned about when the government will bring any extensions to the scheme, and we are uncertain whether there is a promise we can trust – given the great uncertainty of what is now available. User-controlled personal assistant is a release project. It is an image of the kind of welfare state that we want: a welfare state that is not above and below, but where the individual himself has power over services and through that power over his own everyday life. It is amazing what the BPA and the pioneers of that scheme have meant for the development of freedom for people with disabilities. Uloba and others who have stood on to expand this offer deserve a tremendously large reward. There are some things about what the government has put forward, which SV disagrees with, and where we want to make other proposals. One is related to the age limit of 67. I can't see there's any principle or practical reason why the limit should be drawn where it's drawn in this case. There's reason to remember that this is about, that one should be able to take out already allocated hours, as the user himself wants. Then it's hard to see that there should be any fundamental or practical difference between being 65 or 68 years old. Instead, what we should focus on is whether or not he is able to manage his work in a good way, and in that case there should be no age limit. Therefore, SV proposes to remove it. I would also like to point out an increasing uncertainty in some municipalities about the content and principles of the scheme, which concerns us. There is a need for clearer national regulation on the content of the scheme in order to ensure effective justice. That is why we propose that the government should come up with a separate regulation that ensures national quality requirements for BPA. That proposal is also being promoted today. A third point, where we want to go further than the government, is related to hourly limits. We believe that the proposal put forward here is an unfortunate restriction. It must be that the user-controlled personal assistant is available if there is a great need for help even when it does not take very many hours. Therefore, we suggest that the right to a BPA occurs at ten hours. The latest SV proposal is linked to a timetable for the further extension of the rights. We wish we had got something more tangible from the government than the vague promise to come back to the matter. That is why we are promoting a proposal that the government should return with a timetable for this to the Stortinget – not the final proposals, but a timetable – in the state budget for the harvest. It would be a reasonable way to signal the level of ambition and what the Storting can expect from the government in this incredibly important matter in the future. With that, I take up the suggestions that SV is only about in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2183	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2186	This is a brand day. I am very pleased that the Stortinget now finally has the opportunity to legislate for user-controlled personal assistance. I would also like to thank the Committee for putting a lot of work into this matter before the summer. The government wants a society where everyone can participate. Most of us want education and work, and we all have expectations of living an independent and active life. This also applies to people who need assistance in their everyday lives. The government wants disabled persons to have the opportunity to be the head of their own lives. Yes, the BPA scheme is based more on civic rights rather than on welfare. The rights attaching of BPA shall precisely contribute to making this possible. I want to thank the user organisations today who have fought this fight and endured the long wait. I would also like to thank the previous government which after a very long time, but in any case, sent a new proposal to the hearing. For our government, it has been important to put in place the rights attaching of user-driven personal assistance as quickly as possible – without a new consultation. In order to achieve this, we have therefore chosen to use the model that was at the hearing in 2013. But the government's ambitions are greater. We have therefore met the majority of the hearing bodies by extending the proposed right to also include support contacts and relief for parents with disabled children. For both the younger and the older, support contacts can be a good opportunity to get an active leisure time. Since user-controlled personal assistance was legalised in 2000, it has been common to include support contacts in the offer of user-controlled personal assistance. It is therefore important that support contact hours are also covered by the right. The government also wants to improve the daily lives of parents with particularly large care tasks for disabled children. Many parents and children in this situation will be able to have better adapted and flexible services with user-led personal assistance. Then we should give them the opportunity to just pick it. In addition, user-driven personal assistance could help make young people more independent — a preparation to master adult life. When the child reaches the age of 18, the need for services shall be determined independently of parental care. In view of that expansion, we are in breach of what was possible to have a majority in the Stortingen in the previous period, namely the requirement that this be done within the financial arrangements that the municipalities had. I hope, expect and also look at the setting that Stortinget has nothing against it. It is precisely the extension that is now going to cost significantly more. It includes a significant number of persons because so many hours of both relief and support contact are now included to grant the right. Our estimates of the additional costs will be followed up in the annual budgetary processes. For next year, costs are estimated at 300 million. kr. The government acknowledges that the bill involves a certain degree of uncertainty. In particular, the extent to which the proposal will meet the needs of users. This also applies to the extent to which the right will affect the ability of the municipality to adapt and dimension services in an appropriate and cost-effective manner to all user groups. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will therefore allocate funds to a follow-up evaluation of the proposal. The Government will subsequently consider whether the right should be further amended or extended. My overall goal is to create the health and care services of users and patients. The rights attaching of user-driven personal assistance is an important and concrete measure to achieve this objective. Through the right, persons with long-standing and high needs for personal assistance are given the opportunity to choose to take responsibility for organising their services and to train the assistant in how to perform the services. This right also includes parents who have children in need of assistance and therefore need relief and services. Not everyone can have or want user-driven personal assistance, but those who have such needs and who want user-driven personal assistance now have the option to choose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2212	This is a day of joy. It's also been very happy, when we've met with user organisations, that there has been no challenge in recruiting assistants. But it's a very special job they go into with users as managers. If we're going to have a good order, we're totally dependent on getting tidy jobs and preferably collective agreements. Because even though there's a lot of great, big words around this, there's a single meeting between the person who needs help and the assistant that the quality will really be noticed. So the question for the Minister of Health is, how will the Minister of Health ensure orderly working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2219	It is given, among other things: grants to municipalities for the provision of a training offer, and it is important that municipalities ensure a good and sound BPA scheme – regardless of whether it is the municipality providing the service itself, or agreeing with private service providers – and that the individual, who becomes a supervisor and jobs in the service, is also given the opportunity to discharge that responsibility in a good way. My impression is that this is something that basically works very well. But as in all other areas, there will be individual cases where it doesn't, but then we have a responsibility to clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2226	We are going to adopt a major rights reform that is incredibly important to many people and provides a significantly better everyday life. I guess no one knows how much it will cost. It's probably going to cost a lot more than the government has outlined. The individual user shall be the supervisor. Who, then, will be the employer? It can either be the user's maritime, it can be the municipality, it can be a cooperative, or it can be a commercial operator. My question goes to a collective agreement for those who are responsible for the employer. Will the Council of State agree that a collective agreement is required here for those employed by commercial operators, or non-profit cooperatives, because here we are facing a need for a social contract between the state that provides a lot of money and the actors who do a job here that includes a lot of economic activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2233	It is the municipalities that enter into this type of agreement, and therefore we will follow the same principles that we do otherwise when the municipalities either choose to organise and offer the service to their own employees or buy it from a private operator. Then the municipality decides that kind of question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2238	The recommendation states that government parties share the view that persons over the age of 67 should continue to be able to receive, at least in many cases, assistance organised as BPA. But in the government's proposal, these fall outside the right-wing rule. My question to the Council of State is quite simple: if the Right and Advance Party consider that there is no good principle or practical justification for setting the limit at 67 years, will the Council consider lifting that restriction?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2245	Firstly, it is important for me to stress that the municipality's obligation to provide services used for personal assistance will continue to apply. This means that there is nothing to prevent municipalities from both offering and continuing the offer of user-controlled personal assistance even if the user is 67 years old. Should we now have proposed that the age limit proposed by the previous government and sent out to the hearing should not apply, my assessment is that there had been such a major change that it would have required a new hearing and thus a new postponement of this case. It's not desirable. It is obvious that a population will then expand considerably, while also extending it to a larger proportion of the population who will need this. It will also have major economic consequences for municipalities. It is one of the questions that we need to address and which we need to consider in the course of our assessment of how this affects the individual. It is also important to bear in mind that, at that time, the Grand Duchy's grant scheme for particularly resource-intensive services will cease. Therefore, it will have extra financial consequences for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2250	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2255	Innovation in the public sector is often linked to new technological solutions, while there are changes in how we organise services, which often provide the largest quantum leaps. User-controlled personal assistance represents such paradigm shifts. Here, it's really going to take radical action by turning our roles upside down. Now there are people who need help who are the active party. Nearly 3,000 have BPA today, and there have been many positive experiences. However, this way of organising health and care services means that it is new to it, but also to the municipalities. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we use a development perspective when we are going to further implement the scheme. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it is important at the moment of the phase-in of the scheme that we ensure that it is the municipality that has the documentation requirement for rejection. It also builds up under the principle of the human being and the user in the center. We also use an insight into the power relationship between the individual and the municipal bureaucracy that we thought some other parties were also concerned about. We also believe that it will strengthen the municipality in understanding the scheme, when they themselves have to document the times they will reject it. Another important issue that the Workers' Party has also promoted is that it is important to maintain the political pressure to ensure that the scheme is further developed. We believe that it is very unfortunate that the system is being thwarted by taking away the right to night and point services. Although it is introduced in many municipalities, it gives a bad signal that we have neither fixed the time to expand it, nor that it gives municipalities the opportunity to take this away from them. For those people that are talking about have a great need for help, and most people will also have a need at night to have the independent life. We hope that more will support the two proposals of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2267	Several have expressed that this is a joyous day, and it is. It's a pleasure day for many disabled people who depend on assistance in everyday life. And it's a pleasure day for everyone who's been on for many years and struggled for the rights attaching of user-driven personal assistance, which we abbreviated as BPA. The majority decided in 2013 to ratify the UN Convention for People with Disabilities. The Convention provides significant support to disabled people in their struggle to achieve their rights, such as enabling disabled people to live as independent and dignified a life as possible. The Convention itself does not contain any new specific rights, but imposes specific requirements on how the Member States can best facilitate the benefit of universal human rights enshrined in the UN Conventions for the benefit of people with disabilities. The organisation is particularly concerned with the introduction of laws and regulations that prevent discrimination and enable disabled people to participate in all areas of society, just as we do in the Stortinget today, when we adopt legislation on user-led personal assistance. The government wants a society with opportunities for everyone, where everyone can participate. User-driven personal assistance is an important contribution to the objective of an active and as independent life for people with disabilities. The scheme implies that the person in need of assistance governs and organizes what concerns his or her own life. The role of the manager gives the user influence over his or her own life situation. Within the framework of agreed hours and working life rules, the user may control what the assistant is to do, at what times and where the assistance is to be provided. It's about having your hands on the wheel of your own life, an experience of freedom, independence and dignity that is important to all of us. An Econ study shows that BPA is also socio-economically profitable, among others. by providing user-driven personal assistance as the only means of providing disabled persons with assistance needs with opportunities for professional activity and social participation. About a quarter of the persons interviewed who have BPA report having regular work, about half of them. Half works 100 pst. Two thirds of those who are working believe that without BPA they would not be working. The rest believe that they must have fallen in job size. Family members would also be less economically active or had a lower job size if the disabled person with a need for assistance had not had BPA. The report shows that BPA leads to more disabled people receiving education. This in turn leads to increased professional activity and further socio-economic gains. The survey also shows that those with BPA schemes are much less in need of different types of health and care services, thus reducing the cost of traditional home services. Today's decision is an important principle decision and a good start to give disabled people with a need for assistance the same space for action as all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2284	Of course, I agree with what has been said by many, that this is a historic decision. But I want to add that it's a decision that should have been made a long time ago, completely independent of the government's color. I do not want this debate to end until it is said that we have had a completely unnecessary and far too long fight against bureaucratic formulations, bureaucratic counter-representations and professionalism – too long, this year after year. We are politicians who are responsible for the fact that we have not decided what needs to be decided until today. That's what I'd like to say. I want, like the more, also the councillors, to praise Uloba and others, who I see are present here, who are to have all the honor that they have been able to stand on for as long as they have in fact done. I hope that in this case this is not an expression of a somewhat insidious symptom, that we are talking here about «strong» weak groups, who are unable to defend their interests strongly enough, and therefore are not taken into account in time. I suspect that's the truth. We have a collective responsibility – there is nothing I put on the current government or someone else, I take equal responsibility for it myself. That's what they say. Then I'm afraid we're about to make a mistake. I hear what the Council of State says – and I am pleased about it – when it comes to coming back. I trust what Bent Höie says there. There's no reason not to trust Höie when he says this – there's no reason at all. But I think we're about to make an actual legal mistake, and that's doing what the representative Grung was up here and presented, namely setting limits on point services, night services and duplication. That means that a number of those who have it today may lose their right to renew their BPA. I don't understand that. I've been doing this for years – I can actually do it. I can do it. I'm going to say it in plain words: whoever needs someone to help him go to the bathroom at night – there's a point service at night – falls outside the right. What kind of bureaucratic snorkeling pipe is it to adopt such a historical reform? The same applies to doubling and night services. I warn against it, and I believe that it is the wrong decision to take. That is why I strongly recommend voting in favour of the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2295	The first time I became acquainted with the system of user-controlled personal assistant was in the 1990s. It was through Leif Sylling in Lier, who has done a difficult job as one of the first here, and who was central to the establishment of Uloba, the cooperative that stood as an employer for these people who were assistants to users with severe disabilities. It was an important job that was started there. As many people have experienced, many years have passed before one has arrived today, where we are going to go further from a municipal obligation to a right. It is an incredibly difficult reform that we are now implementing, perhaps much greater than many are aware of, and also of an economic scale far greater than many are aware of. I think maybe this reform is such that if it had been distributed in its economic impact, the counter-representations would have been far greater. When I'm still aware of that reality, and I'm in favour of it, I have a very awake eye to define the system. I think it will be absolutely essential for the system to have broad political outreach, and for it to function properly, that one is careful with the concepts. The first is that there should be a user-controlled personal assistant. So it's the user who needs help, who has to be head of the labour force. It must be a fundamental principle. We've made an exception to that from the Center Party. This applies to parents of children under 18 years of age, who may be supervisors, because it is reasonably obvious that for the children concerned, such a scheme would be of high quality, far preferable to what is today. When we're about the size and scope of the scheme, I and the Center Party support what the government is basing on: that one should define it not to include services that require more than one service provider present, or night services. Here one has to see that other public offers can in many cases be better than user-driven personal assistants. Just in the end: there are a number of people who are going to work on this. It is important that those who work as assistants have decent jobs, and since the state goes in with so much money, the government must also be willing to ensure decent employment for those concerned, through, among other things. collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2308	There's a perspective in this that's being drawn out all the time, and for good reason: what's this going to cost? After all, the size has decided, as a prerequisite for what we are going to adopt here later today, that it should be cost-neutral, as it is called. But I have never really fully understood the logic of that idea, because of the following: there is no one here in the United Kingdom who believes that the overall rights of social legislation should be weakened. If you need x number of services, it has to be paid, whether it's through home help, accommodation or any other type of service. It has to be paid. But the BPA scheme does not come in addition to the services – it often comes instead. The danger of this becoming so expensive, in addition to what municipalities and counties today pay, I simply do not understand. No one is able to explain it to me either, despite the fact that I have been quite close to the government. There is never anyone in the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Finance who has managed to explain it to me. Of course, I have full respect for the fact that things cost – we have to be naked, we have to be decent, but the argument about, and the danger of this becoming so expensive, I honestly don't understand, if it's conditional on not touching the rights of general social legislation. I'm not going to abuse it, but I see now that the Council of State is nodding carefully. I wish he could go up here and say a little bit about it before we finish, because that's an important part of it all. I believe the Council of State and I'm very much on the verge of understanding what this is really about. So I'm just going to finish -- I'm not going to repeat myself, of course -- say something about what we're doing. I understand what the Council of State says, that we're going to come back to things. But in the first round – and it may take one year, two years, three years – a number of people with BPA today will be able to get into rights problems at the moment they need to have doubles or night shifts. I believe that the Stortinget should not make that decision. It's wrong to make that decision, because people who can work well in the day, have jobs and everything, but need help at night, suddenly don't have the right to BPA anymore. It's enough of them who then say they don't have that right anymore, because they have a right to night work. I repeat: I would like to know where this comes from in connection with legal proceedings. But we should have the ability to stop it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2321	I just have to comment on the recordings of the representative Kolberg, who I believe represents good insight into this matter, both in terms of history and the challenges of getting this in place. With regard to the decision of the Storting that the scheme should be cost-neutral, which was a prerequisite for the work undertaken under the previous government, the proposal promoted today violates that principle. We have calculated that the extension in the case of special support contact and relief, until next year will cost the municipalities about 300 million. kr extra and the years after significantly more than that. My approach — and my approach to this has been all the same as Martin Kolbergs — is that I have not understood how it can be, because these are services that individuals have the right to, in any case. There are two factors that I understand are crucial in that calculation, and it's now given you a better insight. One is obviously this with the cases where the individual should have very few hours. The municipalities believe that this is more costly if it is to be organised as a BPA than if the municipality can offer an overall offer that will cover many small hours – and the night-time discussion comes in. Now we have some experience with that. The second – and I think that is really the most daunting – that has emerged is that the maximum cost of expanding this is related to relief. Discharge is given to parents who have severely disabled children — those who have always thought the Stortinget should have better help. Then one might ask: why does it get so expensive? Well, it is simply because the municipality is organising the offer so badly today that many parents are unable to use it. The fact that a person is given the opportunity to organise it as a user-driven personal assistant means that several parents will simply have the power to use relief – a relief and not a burden, as it sometimes does today. That's the main reason for the cost growth. So I could have said that well, then the municipalities should have taken that bill, because they initially have that problem before, but then we know that the bill had gone beyond other important municipal tasks. That's why we've gone in to cover it over the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2341	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2355	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from a member of the Government, and that those who are required to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2362	This proposition that we are dealing with today is proposing changes to the law we are going to have around health and care services, so that we can take advantage of the opportunities offered by today's information technology for good communication, interaction and coordination. After all, people in Norway are very familiar with communicating and finding information online. This means that the health field has a high potential for making good use of modern information tools, for the benefit of patients and users. The working party supports the device on this proposition and it is good that the government so clearly emphasises that the present proposals are a follow-up to several communications from 2012, which were endorsed by the Stortinget, among others. Report. St. 10 for 2012–2013, Good quality – safe services, Report. St. 9 for 2012–2013, One resident – one journal, and Report. St. 11 for 2012–2013, Privacy – prospects and challenges. I am pleased that the government is continuing the work of the red-green government in the field. It is a strength that there can be a closer common understanding of the need to use ICT to an even greater extent, both in patient treatment, in communication and in evidence in healthcare and in order to ensure patient information from unauthorised access and use. The consensus we happily see today has not always been there between the current government parties and the opposition – to put it mildly. It is not free for me to occasionally be switched off while reading the present document in view of some of the statements made by the current Minister of Health a few to three years ago in the many debates he and I had on today's topic. But for the cozy atmosphere, I will not tear up in the past; on the contrary, I will do as Virgin Mary: I will hide the words in my heart – without that I guarantee that they will not be brought up again. One of the main measures in the proposal is that the law opens up the sharing of patient record information across businesses. The fact that health information follows the patient to whom it is treated is important for the individual to get the best and the best help possible. There are differing views as to whether there should be a clear agreement by the patient before such sharing can take place, or whether a right for the patient to block access to specific information for further use is more appropriate. Understandably, many see clear consent as a more appropriate tool. However, we believe that a well-informed right to block the record information equally respects the patient’s right to have access to his health data. In addition, active consent could lead to unnecessary time use and even delays in patient treatment, when all pre-use records need to be checked for expected active consent. The right to reserve health information that works well depends on the individual patient/user being well informed about the nature of such an access reservation, the nature of the information that can be reserved for transparency, and the way the healthcare provider handles and ensures such information. The working party is concerned about the Prop. 72 L does not refer in one word to the kind of obligations that private operators should have in the processing of patient information. There is a concern expressed in the form of a note also by the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. In particular, free treatment options could make it difficult for good and safe information flows between the public health sector and private providers when no specific cooperation agreement is needed. I have also noted that the topic is addressed in the recently submitted consultation note to the ‘Free choice of treatment’, without giving me any less cause for concern. There are several ambiguities brought to the square in that note. I'm assuming we have an opportunity to come back to that. I would then like to address the proposal put forward in the note, which we are promoting together with the Central Party, SV and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2385	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2388	I'm not going to wonder what other similarities the Knutsen representative has with the Virgin Mary, but I'm going to use the opportunity here to commend her work as the case-law rapporteur on this matter. It's been a pleasure working together in the committee, even though we didn't agree on everything. This issue is important for the further development of Norway and, in order to provide the best possible health care, healthcare professionals depend on patient information. Missing or incorrect information may lead to mistreatment, and to document what has been done, and on the basis of which the decision is taken, the information must be recorded – mainly for the benefit of the patient and the further treatment. This proposal means that today’s health record law is broken down into two new laws: the Patient Journal Act and the Health Register Act. Due to the professional and organisational development of healthcare, all parts of the Health Register Act are no longer functioning on the basis of intention. Since 2001, there have been major changes in the technical possibilities and expectations of the population for seamless exchange of information and access to their own health information. The right considers that several of the provisions of today’s law are prejudicial to a well-functioning patient course. In the past, a greater proportion of healthcare was provided within one establishment. However, there have been major changes in the course of patients. At present, each person has its health information disseminated between different systems in different establishments. Increased specialisation and interaction require a continuous involvement of several enterprises in the treatment of the same patient. Basic requirements for patient safety require a greater level of safe sharing of information between the enterprises involved. The changes in the law are designed to enable healthcare professionals to obtain relevant and necessary information in a timely and effective manner, irrespective of where the patient has received health care in the past. In short, rather than being transported by taxi, fax and pipe mail, this change in the law brings up electronic interaction in the healthcare system. We believe that electronic information exchange should not require specific consent requirements. The consent requirement should be the same regardless of whether the information is made available by means of paper-based information or by electronic means. Both legislative proposals have been amended on several points after the consultation. Part of the debate has been based on the consultation proposal and not on what is promoted in the legislative proposal. The new Patient Records Act provides better information sharing between health professionals than the current Health Register Act. It is statutory that the patient has the right to oppose making all or part of the record available to other health professionals. This can be done both by technical blocking and by verbal communication to patient caregivers. We are concerned that the rights should be well informed for the patient, and there are several comments about this in the setting. Privacy is ensured by general rules on professional secrecy. In any case, snoking is prohibited. With this law, Norwegian patients may manually refuse to have all or part of their records made available to other health professionals. It is important to clarify that the possibilities provided by the law cannot be put into effect until the necessary security solutions have been developed. In this case, the law goes ahead of the technology instead of running after it. Health professionals who want to make use of the possibilities provided by the law must first ensure that they are on the right level in terms of data security and technology. The availability and security of data must be ensured irrespective of where the patient has received health care and the organisation of the sector. This must be done within the framework of professional secrecy. The use of data shall continue to be regulated by the needs of patients throughout the course of treatment. These laws become maps and compasses in the further development of eHealth in Norway. We believe that today’s legislation prevents the development of the concept of one patient – one journal, an important piece that needs to be put in place in order to achieve the goals we have set for a future-oriented healthcare system on patients’ premises. The law confirms that the sharing of patient information shall only take place where necessary and relevant for patient treatment and other legal purposes. Unlawful access to and sharing of patient information is illegal and may result in criminal liability. This is also a consequence of the Health Care Act. Patients and users shall, as far as possible, have control of health information describing them. The patient should not contact more sites than is necessary to obtain a complete picture of his own data. Trust between patients and treating health professionals is a prerequisite for providing good quality health care and essential for providing the patient with sufficient information to receive proper and necessary health care. In the Hippocratic oath, among other things, it says:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Everything that comes to my knowledge during the pursuit of my profession or in daily life with people, who should not be known to others, I will keep secret and never reveal.’ The obligation of professional secrecy of the healthcare system is one of the oldest and most important measures to ensure this trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2421	The matter that we have to deal with today is an important matter, and it is important that we, as a wholesaler, take into account that the matter also raises a number of issues, especially relating to the privacy policy. The representative of Stensland showed in his statement here what is stated in the Hippocratic oath of professional secrecy. Still, we know that snooping in patient records and, I was saying, the crimes that happen in those contexts are something you don't have control of. It is important to have control over that business. It shall be prohibited and shall remain prohibited. The Patient Journal Act is a very important step forward in the seamless course of patients in order to provide the individual with proper health care at the right time and in the right way. Therefore, it is important to be able to exchange the necessary health information across businesses, as long as the patient has the opportunity to make a reservation, of course. It is also important to ensure that the patient is provided with the necessary information on the possibility of making a reservation. I do not conceal that I have a very strong sense that the general rule should be an active consent. In all cases where it is practicable to do so, what must be the general rule of what we are doing, both within the Health Register Act and within the Patient Records Act. It also captures the law, that that's what's the general rule, while in some contexts it's that you have an opportunity to make a reservation. I would like to pay particular attention to, inter alia: the Health Register Act on why it is important that we have active consent as a general rule. It is particularly linked to research. In terms of research and those who are going to use the kind of information that is being created in our health records, we need to make sure that the type of information does not get the wrong way. It applies throughout the chain. This applies not only to health professionals, because among health professionals we have the opportunity to initiate some responses if you break the law, but it applies to those who are going to research. In order to be able to access personal data in the research and to go back and identify those data, logging and traceability must apply at all stages of access to this information. In the case of health records and consent to reservation, this matter does not concern whether you should have a lock on the door and that it should be difficult to enter. No, that's how many locks you have in terms of security, which in many ways is the debate here. Do we have the security to be able to have personal identification information and research on it? There it is important what the Minister of Health has said earlier, and which has also been said in this Chamber, that the law does not come into force for businesses until a secure system is in place. The tool must be there before these things can be implemented, precisely in the interests of privacy and the patient's interests. But it is also in the patient's interest that information can be shared across businesses, because it is about getting the right health care. We also have to take that over. Some have asked questions here, and it was the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen who referred to the issue of private health institutions. But when a law is passed, it does not apply only to the public sector. The Patient Journal Act will also apply to private enterprises — as will the Health Register Act. The thing about logging and reporting etc., all these things will have to be followed in every business. However, I would like to ask that, in the coming days, the Minister of Health has a particular focus on the certainty that the tool is there, that traceability and logging are there, and that we have to take even more stringent measures against snoring in patient records. It is particularly important when we expand the scope of the journal across several businesses. Then these things must be at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2438	Getting a new patient journal law and a new health record law that comes with the technological world and development is central and important. Not many years ago, I gained some years of experience from an emergency reception, where it is important to get information and get vital information to help people, wherever they come from in the country, and when they arrive on the day they arrive. It's not that many years since we had paper records that challenged us in terms of having a complete journal. Getting hold of the journals and finding the right papers that would belong was difficult in many areas. It was even so that there had been two dense hospitalizations and the epicrisis was not written, you could only have half the journal in front of you when you had patients who were very seriously ill. Fortunately, we have come a step further. We've got new technology, which allows us to have access to the right information at any time. Therefore, it is important to ensure that this information, which is vulnerable information, does not go astray, as they could do when we had the paper file in our time and we could not see who snooped in the journal. We need to make sure that this information does not get out of hand, and that the patient should always know who is in the journal, and who has the right to go into the journal, and who knows what about yourself. The Christian People's Party is pleased that it's improving, so that patients now know who's been inside or who's going into the journal. No one should be included in the journal that has nothing to do there. The purpose of the Patient Records Act is to have good quality health care and to ensure privacy and patient safety, while at the same time using new technologies to ensure that we get the information we need at all times to provide good health care. The new patient journal law will ensure that we get the necessary and relevant information all the way to provide the patient with the best help. So it's important to facilitate that there may be a sharing of information between health professionals in order to be able to provide the right help at the right time. If we don't have that possibility, we can actually end up not being able to give the right help at the right time. The law must apply to the public sector as a private sector. It is also important that we have a good health record law in place, so that we ensure the quality of what is there, who has access, and what the research provides for the treatment they are to provide in the long term. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party is pleased with the law that now comes in two homes of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2453	Proper storage and proper use of key health information are essential for our healthcare system to function, for us to learn, and for us to be able to improve. The central party mainly supports the government's proposal for a new patient record law and a new health record law. The case was sent out by the Red-Green Government, and the Center Party believes that the hearing round has been useful. Recordings have been considered, and more good clarifications have been made. The law provides that consent shall be the general rule for all health records. The centre party will support the establishment of the right of reservation for registration in the health registry where, for the purposes of the registry, consent cannot be required. The establishment of new, large health records without consent shall be decided by the Stortinget. After careful evaluation and processing of the recordings, the central party has concluded that we cannot support the general rule proposed by the government that the treatment of health information between new patient journals should be reduced to passive consent in the form of a right to oppose the processing of information. At this point, we are some with the Left and the SV in that these are significant interventions in the right to protect their own sensitive information, and that the right to oppose them is something quite different than an express consent. The centre party believes that sharing of patient information across companies as a general rule must be based on express consent. Exceptions to the main rule may be applicable in emergency situations. We also believe that it may be possible to obtain such an active consent once. I am concerned that much better access to patient information across the service site should not be perceived as a magic formula for better and safer patient information flows. It is clear from the government that the structure of the journals today is not good enough for other editors to easily find information they are looking for. It will take time to put in place good journal systems in all the companies. The fact that the inpatient doctor or prescriber makes good, graded notes with compressed facts and current issue will always be important and will not be replaced by a general access to the patient’s journal. Access to patient records will be in order to obtain additional information required in the course of treatment. In this way, it may be even more urgent to put in place procedures for good intentions and epicrisis. The sharing of health information in patient records shall only take place where necessary and relevant. It's important. So does the law. Health information shall only be available to healthcare professionals with a need for care. It's also important to clarify. The processing of health information shall be in accordance with strict standards of professional secrecy and privacy. Both legislation and technology shall ensure that personal health information is not subject to unauthorised use. Unlawful access to and sharing of patient information is illegal and may result in criminal liability. All this is set in law, but at least not slurp, at least not a trick. If health services are to share sensitive information about people, it is also a great responsibility. It is the trust of the health care system that suffers if what is in the law is not followed up. Today there are not enough systems in place, but the law states that these must be in place before the scheme is introduced. Personal data protection must be protected. Good monitoring and access control is therefore essential in terms of access rights and authentication. The health system will not work well without the patient's trust. Both patients and therapists must also have confidence in the journal. The fact that some health information can be protected and blocked from registration, i.e. that the patient has the right to oppose the registration of information, is also fundamental to this confidence. The center party agrees with SV and Left when we point out that this right is little known today, and there is a need for a clear licence for the right to screen or block the journal information. Many have done so with patient records of 50 years. 50 years ago, I guess no patient read what was written in one of their own journals. I have to tell a story from myself, as I read a patient record from approx. The 1960s. The district doctor had written the following about the patient: the patient is a gardener's ring, mother of six children, and looks like it! I don't think you should write that today, and it's a very improvement. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Centre Party, Left and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2479	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2482	The left is in favour of providing healthcare professionals with relevant and necessary information on their patients in a timely and effective manner. We are technology optimists and believe it is important to apply new technology. We want doctors, hospitals and others to communicate more electronically with each other, and we want better healthcare, for the benefit of patients. But we are also committed to maintaining confidence in the health care system and to providing individuals with the assurance that no details about an uproar of life, a difficult abortion, medication in connection with a depression or a history of assault are being diverted. As a patient, we realize that it is sometimes necessary for health professionals to gain insight into the entire history of the disease. We also expect different parts of the healthcare system to talk to each other. We understand that it is necessary to share information electronically. But we'll be asked. What do the parents say when it is revealed that tissue samples have been taken from their dead infants for use in research on creepy death, without the consent of their parents being obtained? Well, they said, "We should have been asked." And they say, we would say yes. When the Left proposes to return the proposal, it is primarily because one in the proposal for a new patient record law opens up the sharing of journal information between businesses without explicit consent. It is stated that the division is consent-based and that patients consent when seeking health care. How many do we honestly believe will be aware that by going to a doctor in an emergency or by consulting a psychologist indirectly consents to the access of health professionals in other businesses to the confidential information provided in any contact with all parts of the healthcare system in the past and in the future? So it says that you have the right to oppose division, as if it were equivalent to an explicit consent. A right to oppose means that you have to act actively – you have to actually oppose sharing. First of all, it assumes that you know that the information can be shared, and second, that you know that you can oppose sharing. When will you be informed that you have the right to oppose division? Is it in the cordon of the bodyguard while the blood is spilling? Or is it the psychologist who in the first meeting with new patients will start the confidential conversation with a briefing that what is said could be passed on to an unknown number of health professionals across the country? In the case of express consent, it will automatically be informed that the record information can be shared, as part of the reasons why consent is sought. Only then will you really be able to decide if this is something you want, and only then can you have some control over the flow of information. A passive consent relieves the public of a high level of information liability, to which the Left is very sceptical. It is apparent from the legislative proposal that privacy has been protected and the Left is pleased that privacy has been included in the intended purpose. Is it possible, however, that privacy could be protected in an even better way than is the case in the proposals submitted? Andalucía in Spain, with its eight million inhabitants, has an IT infrastructure for healthcare that we can only dream about here to land. All hospitals and public medical centres have the same solution and can communicate electronically with each other without obstacles. This means that patient information actually follows the patient, so that all healthcare members have access to the same information when they are in contact with the patient. This also applies to the pharmacies supplying the patient’s medicinal products and providing advice on their use. In Andalucía, they have solved this by providing all citizens with a patient card for safe identification. There is no information in the card except that it identifies the patient. In order for healthcare professionals to have access to patient data, they generally need to have this patient card. Then the patient himself has full control over who gets access to their information, and they can give access to exactly what healthcare professionals they themselves want. No one can be suspected of misrepresenting sensitive personal data, and everyone has access to enough information to do the best possible job for the patient. It is possible to take into account effective communication while keeping individual control over their own sensitive information. One of the challenges of opening up cross-business sharing is that the journals are not structured. Journals are conducted differently and in many cases contain extensive information. It will therefore be a demanding process to look through a long record to find relevant information. Then you get unnecessary and extensive exposure of the many sensitive information that a journal may contain. There is a need to review both diagnostic descriptions and logging methods. The Left therefore proposes to appoint a LEAN Commission to review current journal practices and the training needs of healthcare professionals in order to establish a common standard for a digital journal. This applies regardless of the requirements for consent. Finally, I would like to say something about the proposal for a new Health Register Act. The left considers that a two-way sharing of the current law makes sense in order to clarify the difference between the use of record-keeping data in the context of treatment and for secondary purposes that does not directly benefit the patient concerned. Health records are important in research, production of statistics, analysis, planning, management and preparedness. We have a lot of good records, and that's how it still has to be. However, the left is critical that one of the proposed new health records provides for the creation of new registers by regulation. Finally, I would like to make the proposals that the Left alone or with others are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2505	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2509	It is basically a very positive matter we are dealing with today. We have the opportunity through new technologies to create a safer, safer and more efficient sharing of important and necessary information in our healthcare system, and we have the opportunity to ensure that the information is followed in a safer way than before by patients in different health care establishments. Nevertheless, it is not possible to get away from the fact that of course this debate becomes a lot of business about what we disagree about, which is the degree of control that individual citizens should have over their health information. In SV we are very critical that sensitive information about our health status and our lives can be shared in the healthcare system without the active consent of each individual citizen. It's about taking care of some basic principles in our health care and in our society, and how we treat confidential and confidential information. It is particularly important to have such a discussion when more and more of this information is contained in easy-to-share electronic records, but which unfortunately are also easily accessible. Our view is that it is possible to continue today's demands for active consent in new patient journal law in an efficient and unbureaucratic way. We are deeply concerned that turning the general rule from an active consent to a passive consent, or a reservation right, which is popular in Norwegian politics a day, is a right that too many will remain a paper right. We know that already today, in our healthcare system, we are struggling with the fact that many rights that people have on paper are rights that are not known to patients in practice. And the threshold for reserving is probably going to be higher than not giving active consent. So we are in agreement with the Left and the Center parties that the requirement for informed consent in today's law should be continued in the new law. The Medical Association gave a good illustration of the importance of it in the hearings held by the Committee, where they indicated that today's access to data blocking is not used because the threshold for users is high and people's knowledge of the rule is poor. That is why we also want a clear permit for access to block such information in the new law. I believe that active consent is something that the people's confidence-elects should not be so afraid of. Active consent builds trust, it facilitates a healthy process, and it can be positive for the health care system, which must have a critical review with itself of how to treat sensitive personal data. It can be positive for patients, who, through active consent, are made aware of the importance of health information about us, and it is not least important for society because our society needs an ever-increasing awareness of the difficult issues of privacy. The information we're talking about here is not any information. It is clear that we are all concerned that health services should have access to the information necessary to provide us with the necessary treatment in the simplest way possible. But in these journals, there is a lot about us, about our lives, and about our challenges and problems that can put a significant strain on the individual if it comes down to it. I think this case highlights something that unfortunately is a trend in Stortinget, and it is that the Data Protection Authority comes with very clear advice to us that the Stortinget does not follow, and that privacy concerns come back again and again in the row when important considerations are to be weighed against each other. What we see is a slightly unusual alliance of the Left on the bourgeois side and us and the Center Party on the red-green side, but unfortunately it's a common alliance on privacy issues. We're doing very well with the left there. The problem is that the data protection parties seem to be in chronic minority in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2526	The patient’s best — with better health care quality and improved patient safety — is the goal of everything we do in the health sector. In order to achieve this objective, it is essential to exploit the possibilities of effective and safe registration and sharing of patient information provided by modern ICT. The government’s proposal for a new patient record law and new health record law will open up the possibility for new, better and safer solutions to be developed and put into service. A consequence of increased specialisation and interaction is the ongoing involvement of several enterprises in the treatment of one and the same patient. This has created a new and greater need to share patient information that today’s legislation does not take into account. Too poor sharing of information in healthcare has for a long time led to poor patient treatment. The seamless exchange of information between health professionals is a prerequisite for the success of the reform work undertaken by this government in several areas. The Patient Journal Act will facilitate the availability of relevant and necessary information to healthcare professionals when they need it — in order to provide the patient with the best possible health care. The journal shall be linked to the patient, not to the activity in which the patient has received health care in the past. The few people want to share everything with everyone. We do not want unauthorised persons to have access to health information about ourselves. But we don't get good privacy by making it difficult to share information between people who need it, in order to provide the best possible health care. We do not propose that more patient information be shared. What's new is how the information can be shared. If a hospital or permanent medical practitioner has modern electronic patient records with high safety in the sharing of information, they may choose to provide health professionals with direct access to information necessary to provide the patient with health care elsewhere. Only those who need it will see and use the information, and only in connection with the patient’s seeking health care, or to administer it. The patient should be entitled, as at present, to see who has seen the information and to oppose its sharing with other treatment providers. Of course, the obligation of professional secrecy applies. The Patient Journal Act will be one of many steps towards the government’s vision of ‘one resident — one journal’. Here we have several parallel processes, including: on the standardisation, structuring and development of new and better record-keeping systems. Once we have developed the systems and carefully evaluated different solutions, we will present a new proposal for a single national journal solution that gathers all the patient’s health information. We need health data to treat each patient, but also to get more knowledge of causes and occurrence of diseases, how they are investigated and treated, and what kind of results different treatment methods can provide. The new Health Register Act will provide easier and more efficient access to and use of health data to obtain that type of knowledge. The law opens the door to the establishment of health records where individuals may object to their inclusion in the register. We will then be able to gather useful knowledge while respecting the individual's right to self-determination. However, that type of register can only be established if the register is important and it is not possible to base the register on individual consent. The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen referred to some of my views in this kind of question some years ago. It's absolutely right that in this kind of question, both I and Right have moved us. However, in the context of Stortinget’s treatment of the Stortingen Storingsmessageen One incorporates – one journal and in the context of the nuclear record case, one found that Stortinget had a different attitude to this kind of question than it had in the pre-enlargement period. There is today reason to thank former Minister of Health Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen for having started an important reform work in this area. The new Patient Records Act and the Health Register Act will open up new and safer solutions to improve health care for individual patients and to develop healthcare for the benefit of the patient. Then it's important that we take the privacy discourse from the paper society to the digital society and see the opportunities for enhanced privacy that increased, new digitisation involves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2554	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2557	It's good with confessions – we all need to come with that from time to time. Despite consensus on most things, it is peculiar that the government does not say one word about how to commit a comprehensive roll-out of private health services in a common ICT platform. In this note to the proposal, the right hand party and the Progress Party say that it should be investigated in the context of free choice of treatment. I read, as I said, the consultation note for the scheme, which came yesterday. It is said correctly that an increasing number of providers – without agreement with the public, as we have today – are a challenge for both patient safety and privacy. The Council of State will probably say that this has to be investigated. But my question is: can the Minister of Health join the intention of the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party, the SV and the Left, that private providers should provide good and complete health data to public registers, contribute to the ambition of «one citizen – one journalist» and have safe and secure management of patient records? What is the reason why the parties to the government do not support this proposal, as stated in the remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2568	It will not be necessary for the parties to the Government to vote in favour of this proposal. I expect the government parties to have confidence that this will be determined by the government. It also appeared in the consultation note on the free choice of treatment that we sent out yesterday. The simple rule of thumb is that the same requirements will apply to private operators in the free choice of treatment scheme as to the private operators who have tenders today – and I also understand that the Workers' Party agrees to be an important part of the public health offer – namely that even private operators who have tenders are currently participating. The type of participation required Yes, this will be required. In addition, both the Patient Records Act and the Health Register Act apply to public and private enterprises, and the rules on the processing of health data are the same for private and public enterprises. However, it is crucial which tasks are carried out and whether they fall within the scope of the law, whether the tasks are carried out by public or private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2575	The Council of State refers to the fact that the Right has moved on this issue. I would also like to say that the Left has moved – from the fact that we wanted to psevdonymise all personal data, for example. So we recognize that it's drawing it too far. In the information we're about to manage, there's a lot of information. Today, administration is very different, and there are many different types of administration – which makes us skeptical. It's been demonstrated today that we have a government that is able to handle this. Then the question is to the Council of State: is it safe enough when it is purchased, or is it safe enough when all actors who are responsible for managing the system have received the training that is sufficient to handle all the sensitive personal information?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2582	I fully agree that the left has also moved. In my post I said that it is my opinion that the whole Stortinget moved in connection with the treatment of one resident – one journal, and in the next round on the question of nuclear records. Now we are also dealing with an important matter, where I perceive that there is broad support for very much of what is proposed. The law provides a framework for development. If we were to do so that we waited until all the ICT systems were on top before we introduced a new piece of legislation, we would have allowed those who were last out to decide the speed. By laying down the law, but with clear demands, we also have something that businesses have to go after when they are going to develop their new ICT systems. For example: the exchange of information between undertakings is not permitted until it meets the requirements of the law. We will also include: at the input of the Data Protection Supervisor during the consultation round, make a separate regulation with its own requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2589	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2592	This is one of the issues we have received feedback from the hospital and health records that they had the greatest expectations for. I think the expectations are being met. When we know that 70 pst. Of the hospital activities, emergency treatment is an emergency, I think the population also expects to be provided with the necessary information to provide rapid, good and relevant treatment. But once I have visited the primary health service, I have also seen how short we have come in terms of the vision of “one patient – one journal”. So there's a need to get a framework, so we can get better. When the committee was on a study trip to Bergen, we also gained a good understanding of how health records have contributed to both improving the service and targeting measures, so that child mortality has decreased. They also gave us clear insights into how we should change the law, so that we got even better knowledge in the future. This is why the Labour Party is confident that the majority of these countries have achieved a good balance between privacy and the ability to provide rapid and effective care and health services to the population. I would also like to say that I am very happy for those parties for a little more restrictive privacy. These are difficult things, and we need the critical voice for all the time to focus on this. At least the Labour Party appreciates it very much, even though we have landed on the majority side. In the case of private actors, we believe that there are deviations in both public and private health services. But in public there are often politicians, and you feel that you can go closer to governments and follow along. Now we heard the Minister of Health say he's working on tools. These are probably the tools we need to know how to control and supervise, especially with many private actors. When you look at the feedback, there are also many contract specialists who do not report back. In particular, in the area of drug and mental health, it is difficult to know whether patients are getting the right and the best offer. In this area, good supervision may be even more important — and we're going with it. At least that is the background to our proposal. We are pleased with the signals we received from the Minister of Health, and we are looking forward to better investigation and the development of appropriate tools. I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Nesvik, for his contributions, which went very clearly in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2611	First of all, it is good that the Labour Party thought it nice that there is a party in the Stortinget that is concerned with privacy. As a representative of one of those parties, it would be nice to be able to reproduce the compliments at some point. However, the use of electronic patient records offers new opportunities, but also new challenges for the health sector. The information can be provided, it can be spread much faster than before, it is available faster, and it can be found with greater certainty. While a former person had to have physical access to the patient record, either by searching for archives or by being available at a doctor’s office or a bed post, he is now only a keystroke away. It's a challenge to the obligations of the people. It has been easier to access, but the availability of information also increases the potential for abuse. Privacy is important to the Left, and we were very pleased that in 2007 a Data Protection Commission was established that developed the NOU Individual and Integrity. Privacy in the digital community. There is one of the following about journal access across enterprises: ‘In the view of the Privacy Commission, increased availability of the patient record requires that patients can be confident that it is not legally, technically or effectively possible for outsiders to acquire information that is not intended to be available. This requires continuous and systematic training and updating of health professionals’ knowledge of existing legislation on professional secrecy and privacy. In addition, awareness-raising work by both health professionals and hospital managers is required, as well as strict rules for exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy and the general principle of consent to such exemptions.’ It is the responsibility of the parties that today we have a requirement for the consent of the patient in the sharing of electronic journal information across companies. In the light of this quote, there is reason to believe that the Commission would be very critical to remove the consent requirement, as one now suggests. The consent rule means that the electronic information provided by the hospital about abortions carried out cannot be shared with the decision-maker without the consent of the patient. Individuals are in control of the dissemination of their own health information, and when consent is removed, the patient loses that control. Sensitive information may be misleading, and one does not always know who can access it. Someone who shouldn't have known is getting to know. It is noted that you have the right to oppose sharing and that information can be blocked. Dr. Britt Lagerholt Smith said to VG on 23 April this year that blocking is only for the most resource-intensive patients. There is also today access to blocking information, but experience shows that it can take many years and requires assistance from both a lawyer and a county doctor. It is not, as one might get the impression, sufficient to ask for the information to be blocked. In addition, one should be aware that even if one should win with blocking requirements, the contact information in the journal will still show that there is, for example, a psychiatric journal. Furthermore, it is shown which diagnosis has been given. All in all, there's reason to be concerned about what one does in the Storting today. I hope we can come back to that at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2631	First, I just want to agree with my party trap Ruth Mari Grung when she says it's good to have balanced attitudes and views on these questions here in the hall. It's actually very important, and I experience it as very constructive and productive. I also agree with the Minister of Health when he suggests that it might not have been like that a few years ago. It's good that we have balanced views. I would like to say a little about private providers, which the Minister of Health had to say. It's absolutely right that the law applies to them, and of course we're aware of that. There are some studies, such as: Sintef has done, which shows that private providers to a much, much less – in fact to a very small extent – provide e.g. health records, other than those with public health establishments. But many treat patients outside, and there is – according to Sintef – completely or almost impossible to get information. There you have to do a job to clean up. That's why I asked for this in the proposition. I look forward to doing some work on it. The Minister of Health has promised it, and I look forward to him coming to the Stortinget with it. So to that with active consent, some people think you should have a kind of one-time consent, and that that's enough. If not, you must have consent every time it becomes relevant to share this information. If you have a one-time consent, it has to be combined with a reservation, because once you give your consent, things in the health state can appear that make you want to reserve information. I think this is quite confusing for patients – not to mention the bureaucracy you build up to check out and check out all these different consents and reservations that had to come. I think you should try to make systems that make this manageable for the health care system and as safe as possible for the patients. That's what I understand that the proposition adds up to. The Committee has also underlined what the proposition says, that a proper patient record structure must be in place before it is rolled out. There should be arrangements that allow you to have access control, that you can have administration and authorisation systems, and that you have tracking of logins in the journal – and a lot of other things. I agree with the Minister of Health that the law must come first, and then we need to get the technology even more in place. Of course, we've already come a lot further than we were when we started working on this, but we have to do a job all the time to balance the law and the technology we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2645	I want to address the discussion related to what is very often said, namely that because we now have electronic journals and ICT systems, we have easier access than with paper, and it's just a keystroke away. It's easy to say, but if you think a little bit through the reality, I think it might be a little bit different. When one had paper records, health professionals who had key to the room where the paper records were – if one was so lucky that it was locked – could read these journals completely without any kind of control. The only way to control was to ‘freshen’. Today you have a full overview of who is in the journals. We as patients also have a completely different way of controlling whether, for example. the neighbour, if his neighbour works in the health care system, is in and reads the file. That, I think, has a significantly greater effect in avoiding that kind of twisting. It's not that it's just the parties that have other suggestions in this room, that are concerned with privacy. Privacy is well protected in this legislative proposal. There are enhanced privacy measures in relation to what was sent at the hearing. The applicable consent rules shall be continued. This means that, in normal cases, healthcare professionals will obtain information from other establishments in consultation with the patient. To make specific demands for consent beyond this will make information exchange in a treatment situation more difficult. Healthcare professionals already have the right and obligation to share information, but the obligation of professional secrecy does not change. What is new in the proposal is the way to share the information. If e.g. a hospital or permanent staff member has good and modern systems, they may choose to provide health professionals with direct access to the record according to the proposed legislation. Health professionals may themselves seek relevant information about the patient, but hospitals or medical clinics that do not ensure the patient’s privacy in a good way in their systems cannot provide other health professionals with access and the patient will still be able to refuse this type of information. The legislative proposal does not mean that all healthcare professionals will have access to all information about a patient. Only healthcare professionals need to provide the patient with health care, who can see the information, and they should only see the information necessary for health care. There is therefore a difference between what the prescriber, the hospital doctor and the physiotherapist will be able to read. It is important that we maintain a high level of privacy in a modern system, because I fully agree with all those who have said that healthcare depends on people having confidence that the information about them is well managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2658	It's time to round off a good debate. The impression is created that we disagree very much on privacy issues. We're not, but we have a slightly different perception of where the limit goes. The major disagreement between the minority and the majority in this case is whether the exchange of patient journal data should be consent-based, or whether there should be right of reservation or reservation – here we can be happy with the concepts. But it's a long way from there to say that there are only some parties that are concerned with privacy. I am quite clear that the debate we have had between the parties, and the work of the committee, has been largely concerned with clarifying privacy and aspects of privacy. If you read the comments from both the government parties and other parties, there are generally comments about privacy and clarifications about it, which have been put in. So I would like to remind you once again that there is no more information you can share. What we're doing here is changing the form and format we're dividing them by, and if the Storting had rejected this bill now, it would have meant that we would still be doing fax and taxi and pipe mail, and I can't see that it's so very beneficial for privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2669	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2683	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and a member of the Government 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2692	The size should now, far by day, when everyone starts to get a little warm and weary, deal with a matter that in itself is quite complicated, because it contains a number of proposals for changes in many laws. In addition, it has a title that does not immediately tell the unknown what the matter is really about, in all its facets. Nor is it made easier by the fact that there are varying majority and minorities in the Committee for and against government's various legislative proposals. Moreover, neither the Christian People's Party nor the Green Party are represented in the Committee, so when we come as far as voting on the matter at some point in the night, it is a matter of having a heavy tongue in the mouth, while at the same time imposing a great responsibility on the prisoners that the votants actually reflect what is the view of the majority in the matter. As rapporteur of the case, it is my responsibility here and now to try to drag us through the main points of the case, in a way that makes the Storting have an overview of what we are going to decide on. But before I do, I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, have a small appeal to the Council of State, which I hope he will take up and at least reflect on, in view of future matters. I have been a major representative for nine years and the case rapporteur for many cases, but I have never bothered more to get an overview of the content of a case than I have done with this proposition. The title may indicate, at first sight, that this is a technical adaptation to Decision No. Stortinget has already made, in the case of a new disability benefit scheme and a new disability pension scheme for public occupational pension schemes, but it is not that simple. The proposals include amendments to a number of laws – the Swedish Law on Social Security, the Law on Social Security for New Disembarkation, which will enter into force only on 1 January 2015, the Act on the Act on the Retirement of War for Military Persons, the Act on the Retirement of Civil Servants, the Law on Retirement of Seafarers, the Act on the Pension of the State Pensions Act, the Act on the Pension of Pharmacies, the Act on Damage to War, the Fischerpension Act, the Act on Occupational Injury, the Act on Nursing Pensions, etc. Some of these are purely technical adaptations to new disability benefits, which are necessary adaptations to new disability benefits and to a new disability pension scheme in public service pensions, but which can be made in slightly different ways and where selected adaptations are relevant to future benefits. Some of the proposals are not adaptations to the new scheme, but proposals for amendments to the Stortinget Decision have already been made. Some proposals deal with a number of benefits and have really no connection with the implementation of new disability benefits and new public disability pension schemes and could, as such, have been promoted in a separate proposition, where the title had not been about disability benefits or disability pensions at all. In addition, a split is proposed in one of the paragraphs of the Amending Act of the People's Rights Act, which makes the paragraphs of some of the amendments out of line with the paragraphs of the proposed law. When the committee was going to consider proposals for progress in the matter, one of the questions we were going to consider was whether we should have a hearing on the matter. We initially thought that maybe that wasn't necessary. We then referred to the title of the case. I think most people immediately perceived this as a matter that only contained the necessary adaptations to previous decisions, but we decided to hold hearings. Only one organisation signed up, the National Public Pensioners Agency. I have a suspicion that this may perhaps be due to the fact that the few – like us in the committee – are able to read out of the title of the case what the matter really involved. If that is the case, it is a democratic problem that we should reflect on, whether we are in position or in opposition. Then comes my little recommendation to the Council of State, because former Councillor Rigmor Aasrud started a project – Clear language in the state – that the current Minister of Modernization Jan Tore Sanner has pressed to his chest. Prop. 66 L for 2013–2014 had hardly stood out in this perspective. As elected representatives, we will address important questions for our citizens, and a minimum is then that we understand what the matter is. Clear language is particularly important when we have a short time to deal with the matter, as in this case. It's an old word that says that in many cases it might be wise to keep your mouth shut and let others think you're stupid, instead of opening your mouth and raising any doubt. When in this case I dare to spite this wise counsel and actually open my mouth, it is partly because in my former life, as I said, I have been the case rapporteur for many matters, but that I have also been the caseworker of the social security department of the then Social Affairs Department, and I have been a researcher on disability in the social security research group at the Institute for Applied Social Science Research. But I had problems getting through the text of this proposition. So my request to the Council of State is therefore that he critically assesses whether it is possible to simplify the language of future propositions on such complex issues. Back to the case, which I choose to review based on politics and not engineering. As a guide, I have chosen to divide the proposals into four main groups. The first consists of perfectly sound adaptations, either of a technical nature, or of which there is broad political agreement, both between the parties and among the hearing bodies which have given their opinion not in spring but to the ministry's hearing in the matter. I simply do not choose to spend time here, except for one, which concerns the lifting of the provision on disability for home-worker spouses. This means that the few – in practice women – are to be assessed hereafter in relation to their future labour market opportunities, which would give them a higher degree of disability than if they were to be assessed in relation to the possibilities of housework. Everyone agrees. The second group is a proposal for the necessary adaptations to the rules already adopted, but where different solutions are possible and where there are different opinions among the hearing bodies. This applies, inter alia, to: the various proposals for changes to the coordination law, the design of a temporary supplement to the disability benefit pending new, permanent rules and new, simpler rules for redeployment where the benefit paid has been too low or too high. An overall committee has here – despite different views among the stakeholders – chosen to support the government’s proposals. A third main group of proposals relates to new policies which the Stortinget has not previously taken up and on which there is a partial political disagreement. This concerns the reduction of the benefits of popular protection while staying in an institution under state responsibility and in a prison under criminal law. The benefits that have the greatest changes are new and old disability benefits and disability benefits, new and old old old-age pensions, former family care, surviving spouses and child pensions. A Joint Committee supports the harmonisation of legislation for all these performances. In addition, the rules need to be amended where they relate to the concepts of basic pension and supplementary pension, which will gradually disappear. A Joint Committee also supports the new rules on the date of conversion during residence in an institution, which implies that the conversion is carried out in the fourth month following the date of the deposit. In addition, an overall committee supports the government's proposal to continue the current rules on the non-reduction of benefits by enrolment in somatic hospital wards. However, the minority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have, in minority proposal No. 3 asked the government to investigate the consequences of total or partial non-discrimination between patients in somatic hospital wards and patients admitted to psychiatric wards. The minority here supports Mental Health's observation that today's practice may be discriminatory, but at the same time sees that there may be reasons why the two patient groups cannot have exactly the same rules. Therefore, the minority’s proposal is that the matter be investigated before a final decision is taken on the question. Where there is a difference of view between majority and minority, the government's proposal for a new rule is that the benefits of former family nurses, surviving spouses, child pensions, new disability benefits and old age pensions fall entirely under criminal law in one of the prisons of criminal law. The minority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, believe that this is going too far, because these benefits have been earned on a basis that has nothing to do with the criminal acts that have been committed, and recommends that the Storting vote against these proposals. In the opinion of the minority, they should also be equated with residence in an institution. The minority have also noticed that a similar rule is not proposed for war pensioners and their children and any survivors. On the other hand, the majority of the Committee, the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left, support the Government's proposal that pensioners and professionals should be treated as equivalent in criminal proceedings. In order to make the suspension of the case as simple as possible around this point, the Committee asks that the vote in this part of the case be held in such a way that § 16-12, concerning benefits to former family nurses in criminal proceedings, be voted over before § 16-11, on equivalent benefits in institution, and in the same way for surviving spouses § 17-14 before § 17-13, for child pensions § 18-9 before § 18-8, for old-age pensions § § 19-22 and 20-23 before, respectively, § 19-21 and § 20-22, and for disability benefits § 12-20 before § 12-19. The easiest thing would be to take all of these paragraphs on loss of performance during criminal proceedings in one vote before voting on the remainder of Roman number XIV in the election. Then the fourth main group of proposals remains, sorted by policy: proposals for which the government is now proposing a rematch on parts of the collapse decision from the previous period, on new disability benefits and old-age pensions to disability. These are decisions which have entered into force on the one hand and which will enter into force on the other hand on 1 January 2015. It was a political dispute about them in the last period, and it is a political dispute about them now. The decision of the previous period which has already entered into force concerns the decision to partially protect against the new age adjustment in the old-age pension. The decision in the previous period provides half-screening until 2018 and involves life-long screening for unborn born 1944-1951. The reason was that the disabled do not have the same opportunity to adapt to the standard of living as the workers have, while we were lacking, and lacked, evidence that could show how the actual adaptation of the workers would be. The Decision assumes that a reassessment of the continuation of the screening determination will be carried out in 2018. The Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left voted for this protection provision in the previous period. The government is now proposing to remove this provision for premature birth from 1948 onwards. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV, have not endorsed the Government's proposal to remove this safeguard clause for failure. Therefore, the Government's proposal for amendments to paragraphs 19-9(a) of the People's Rights Act has been withdrawn from the committee position and is available instead as minority proposals from the Right and the Advance Party. The same applies to the Government’s proposal to amend the new provisions for determining earnings before disability, which were adopted in the previous period and which have not yet entered into force but are therefore due to enter into force on 1 January 2015. This income – before disability – is used to determine the degree of disability. The discount agreed in the previous period that pre-employment income should be determined on the basis of income at the default date/year before the default date. The Government is now proposing to amend the Decision, so that it is the average of the three best of the last five years on which to base the determination of earnings before disability. This option was discussed in the previous period and rejected due to adverse effects on persons with income increases shortly before the default date. Then all the lots, except the Advance Party, were behind the decision that was taken. The majority in today's committee - the Working Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV - is on the last decision and has taken this point out of the setting. It is now available as part of minority motion No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. Both the decision taken in the previous period and the Government's proposal in the present case require certain exceptions to the general rule that legislation should not become too rigid. The exceptions are, of course, quite different – a bit with the opposite sign – since the last decision and the government’s proposals are now different. As a result of the rule already adopted, the majority of the Committee has returned to the vote, while the exceptions proposed by the government, which logically have to be rejected by the majority in the present case, are set out in minority motions No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The last proposal, in which the Government's proposal has not received a majority in the Committee, is the question of differentiated rates of maximum reduction for losses with minimum benefits, where the Storting has adopted 3.3 G for married/cohabitant and 3.5 G for single. The Stoltenberg II government proposed in Prop. 130 L for 2010–2011 that there should be one set for all, with 3 G, but the majority of the Storting – the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – changed this according to agreement in the Stortinget. The reason was then that they wanted a simpler reduction of labour income for those with minimum benefits, and approx. 70 pst. for all, irrespective of marital status. The party to the progress was then outside this agreement. The government is now proposing to change this to a single rate for all, with 3.4 G. The majority of the current Committee is of the opinion that the government's publishing house is rejected and has therefore removed it from office. It is now available as part of minority motion No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. I then explained the Committee's examination of the matter and the position on Stortinget. The recommendations of the Committee for Roman numerals I to XIII, XV to XIX, XXI and XXII are promoted by a Joint Committee. Under Roman numeral XIV, the minority wants to vote against the paragraphs I have already explained, plus the one, § 12-20, which is in the Roman numeral XX. The Roman number of the institution XX is promoted by the majority of the committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left in the case of § 12-7 to § 12-9, with the exception of the fourth paragraph of § 12-9, which is unanimous. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are against § 12-20. Furthermore, the position of the Committee under Roman numeral XX is unanimous. I also use – to save time – the opportunity to address minority proposals No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV and assume that the other minority proposals are addressed by the proposers themselves, even if they have wishes regarding the voting arrangements in the case, which I have not already mentioned. Finally, the matter is complicated. The Committee has had a short time to deal with it. However, we chose to deal with the matter before the summer holiday because of the magic date on 1 January 2015 when the rules on new disability benefits enter into force. This has made it a bit hectic in the committee, and as rapporteur of the case, I would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank the committee secretary, law-makers in the administration of the Stortinge, the text centre here on the house and the political leadership of the department for valuable assistance in the delivery of the committee and clarification of the position before it was put into print. As far as I can see, the setting currently in place is, albeit complicated and a little difficult to make available, in accordance with the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2762	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2765	Let me first take the opportunity to thank the case rapporteur for her work on what is undoubtedly a complicated matter. The welfare state is one of the pillars of our society. Over many years, we've built together a structure that gives us security, because we know it's there when we need it. The welfare state we have is a political community. We're going to suspend it, but that doesn't mean that the welfare state is a static size. As an important institution in our society, it also needs to be turned on and adjusted to be bearer in new times. I believe it is an important recognition to say that, together with the welfare state, we have also built a structure that can be overwhelming in its complexity, not only for those who need the welfare goods offered by the cattle society, but also for those who manage them every day. Complexity is not inherently negative. It goes without saying that in a society of many different people, many different fates and many different experiences, there is a need to have arrangements and rules that guarantee the fairest possible care of the different people. This is, of course, a difficult exercise. The problem arises when we have policies and rules that are so complex that they make the resources that are used on them go beyond the resources that could be used on things other than bureaucracy, or by intrigues actually make the rules unreasonable. The government delivers to avoid this, and this proposition is part of that work. Let me go through some of the suggestions: One is how we determine income today before disability. The goal here is to get one general rule, because today's system is unnecessarily complex. It is based on judgement, and therefore it also requires a lot of resources. If we make legislation that is less based on judgement, it is right that we simplify the procedure, but it is also right and even more important that we ensure non-discrimination. The totality of the solution outlined in the proposal, namely that pre-incapacity income is to be determined by taking the average income of the three best years of income before disability occurred, also ensures that those who have not had income all those years. One of the schemes that have given unfair results is the protective supplement to the disability old-age pension. Today, we have a system where, collectively, we get a higher age pension than non-earnings with equal earnings, which goes off before the age of 67. I think it is relevant in this context to refer to an example given to us by Jens Stoltenberg – an example to which I know it has been referred in this room earlier, rather than by representatives of Jens Stoltenberg's party, at least not as I have been able to find. The point of the example is what happens to two 64-year-olds with the same income history, one of whom is out of work and the other is out of retirement and taking out the AFP as a 64-year-old. What happens is that by shielding the disability for life expectancy, the disabled person will get a better pension than the AFP pensioner. I also think the example presented in the proposition is quite eloquent for the unfairness of this: if one in the private sector who does not have the AFP, loses early retirement when he is 62 years old, this person will receive a pension of 30 pst. less than one unemployed person with the same earnings, who turns into an old-age pension at the age of 67. In many cases, it is quite reasonable to leave early retirement without necessarily being too sick to work, and then you do not have the opportunity to compensate for your living adjustments by working more. It underlines the intrusion of the display plugin. But I feel that it is not just the Right Party and the Advance Party that see that this is an unfair effect. That's why you want the entire scheme evaluated in 2018. What happened on December 12, 2011, was that we voted in favour of a system that was known to have unreasonable consequences. The leader of the largest government party had even explained just how the unfairness could turn out, so it is said that the scheme should be evaluated and possibly changed at a later date. It sounds, with respect to reporting, like a strange way of running politics, and we could actually do something about this unfairness today. Unfortunately, we have to note that this was not the case. I bring up the proposals that the government has made and for which there is no majority in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2799	The representative Stefan Heggelund has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2802	This is a difficult and demanding matter, which has been discussed by many, and I would therefore also like to thank the rapporteur for his good craftsmanship. It is a comprehensive matter to be the case rapporteur for. I also want to thank Heggelund for an excellent article, where the essence of the matter is summed up in a very good way. This matter should actually be a little simpler than what someone has now done to it. Unfortunately, here we are witnessing that the opposition is playing a political game, rather than joining in on sensible changes in the rules of this very complex and very important field. Last time the Stortinget dealt with disability pension, there was some uncertainty about how future pensioners would deal with the rules. A majority therefore considered it reasonable to be cautious about changes to those affected. Now I'm not going to rip up in the old fight, but I'm going to show that today there's a clear reluctance in this room to relate to what we now know, which is far more than what we knew that time. One important element here is the complexity of the rules. For difficult rules, it is an obstacle to individuals, an additional cost to the public and makes it more difficult to see the consequences of the schemes. The Government's proposal aims at simplifying the legislation. I think that makes a lot of sense. I would also like to think that most people in this room actually think so. As a result, I cannot understand with my best will why someone will not change the legislation – unless they are just looking to make a little trouble in a political game. The proposed changes will also fit as a hand in handling the idea that it will pay off to work. Everyone wants to make it easier to exploit any residual capacity. For society, and not least for the individual, this is important. It must then be appropriate to make rules that make it easier for people to work more and make more money. In addition, there is a need to simplify the rules for determining pensions for disabled people, and there must be fairness in the treatment of different groups. It is worth mentioning that most of the proposals do not have worth mentioning proceeds, and that they are not necessarily suggested to save money. The differences for those covered by it are not so big, and saving some of the administration becomes just an extra bonus in addition. The main message in the case is just to stimulate and motivate people to try to stand longer in work and contribute more to society. It is only the proposal to amend the rules for the shielding plug-in that has a substantial budgetary savings. Nevertheless, the main reason for the proposal is not the savings. This is because it appears that only a minority of workers are in work after the age of 67, while the unemployed receive full earnings at the age of 67 and also a protective supplement to the old age pension. I really can't understand how a possible majority in this case can think that this is compatible with the line of work. At least I think it's not compatible with the line of work, and I can't quite see that it's a reasonable arrangement, when the disabled get a relatively good pension compared to the old-age pension that those who don't get are getting. Here it is tempting to complete the example a little bit, as the representative Heggelund was partly concerned with: it with Per and Pål. Both of them are approaching retirement age. Both of them have spooky health. Both of them might have fallen asleep, and both of them go to a doctor. Per end as unfinished, while Pål refuses to give up. He bites his teeth together and takes the problems into consideration, gets the organization and adaptation at work so that he can stand in the working life until he's 67. But what's going on? What happens is that the wearer becomes pension losses compared to the other. Is this fair? I'm just asking. It is a pity that the reason why sensible simplifications may not be adopted today is partly due to a political game. It may not be surprising that the Workers' Party is moving towards the matter as it is now, since, after all, they certainly have some problems admitting that they have left behind a delusion of bureaucratic rules. But I had really hoped that both the Left and the Christian People's Party would relate to the line of work, and that they could be involved in supporting the idea that it would pay off to work, even in the case of disability. What incentive do they have to work when they know that they're going to get equal retirement? But at least I'm optimistic. I am convinced that the next time this matter comes up again will be the majority for what the Right Party and the Advance Party are now in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2835	First, I have to say that I am pleased with the new deformity reform and I am pleased with the work that has been done over a long period of time, because I believe the new deformity reform that will come into force from 1 January 2015 will be better than the one we have had. Then I would like to thank the case rapporteur for an excellent article and an excellent job. For those of us who are not in the committee, it has been very good to follow both the statements today and the work that has been done during the committee's proceedings. I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the committee for that. Since we are not in the committee, I need to make a explanation of vote on how we have thought about the various issues. I can refer to my good colleague in the committee, Mr Sveinung Rotevatn and Mr Left, because we are following them a long way, as well as supporting the proposal of the Workers' Party. But to start with determining income before disability: we're at the same thing as we did in the previous period, and that is, we're going to support that it's still going to be the last year to be taken into account, and not the average of the three best of the last five years of income. I can understand that the average of the three best of the last five years works well and is right for the self-employed, but for most people it will be that you get an increase in pay all the way, so that you will have a higher salary and a higher income that should then be used as a basis for disability. As I said, we are on the same line as the majority in the committee, and we want to maintain what is: 3.3 G and 3.5 G. There was a lot of debate on this in the previous period. As the rapporteur excellently explained, the 3 G proposal of the Stoltenberg government was changed in Stortinget, precisely because we saw that it turned out wrong. It's true that 3.4 G will give you a different discount on the income that you have in addition to the free amount, but it's going to be a greater discount for unemployed people who choose to work, right for lonely people who choose to work, because for married people it's going to be increased from 3.3 G to 3.4 G. But if one follows the line of work, which both the Progress Party and the Right have been busy with, one will be left unless for lonely people who choose to work longer, so in that sense this is a proposal that goes the other way. But what we've emphasized here, and I'm going to point out, is that if you look at those who have the greatest challenges, it's often lonely behavior that's in that category. When it comes to lifeguarding, I think it's one of the most important points. I understand that both the Right Party and the Advance Party, which were welcome in the previous period, want to take a rematch now, but I can't see that there will be any good arguments now that we didn't know about when we last adopted it. It was the representative Johnsen who was in on it, which indicated that we will wait until 2018. Yeah, that's because we know more about how the system turns out. We have wanted to exempt people from living adjustments, or to protect them, at least partially, because life-age adjustment is a matter of paying off longer work. It should be an incentive to stay longer in work, something that cannot be done. That's why they're incapacitated. That is why, after the evaluation in 2018, we will be involved and adapt it so that it becomes approx. the same thing for performers as for other workers, and I think that's a much better system than today to say that it's going to be like that. So to the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox I'm going to support that. I believe that the rapporteur presented in a good manner what is the process of thinking about it. I fully agree that we can at least agree to clarify it. We can look at the difference between psychiatric and somatic departments, and at least I think that's a good idea to find out. We also want to support the Workers' Party, which is probably in the position alone in terms of criminal institutions and residence there. I agree with the argument that there is a difference between rights that have been acquired and rights that are not. We believe that it would be wrong to be deprived of acquired rights if you were to serve in the prisons of criminal law. Now I don't know paragraphs and chapters, but I hope I can do that in a good way when the reconciliation is to be taken over the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2852	We're counting on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2855	There is agreement both in the Committee and between the Left and the Government on a good part of the proposals in this big case, so I want to spend my time deepening the three areas where there is no unity, and where the Left is involved in forming another multiple. The common denominator for the three questions is that the left joined another multiple when one made a settlement about the questions in the previous magnification period, and that since then nothing has happened that has changed after our assessments. In other words, it's not right, as the representative Johnsen suggests, that a player is playing a political game. One makes it the opposite. First, for determining income before disability. In the Law of 16 December 2011 No. 59 it is stated that a person must determine the degree of disability by comparing income before disability with the income he expects to obtain by exploiting residual employment benefits. Income before disability for workers is determined on the basis of pension-based income in the preceding year or the preceding year. The government proposes, with a desire for simplification, the following changes: One should calculate income before disability in the same way for workers and self-employed persons, and the income should be seen as the average of the three best of the five last years of income before disability begins. This question was considered in the previous period. One came to the opposite conclusion because someone would have a lower degree of disability than the reduced part of the job would have. This fact has not changed, so the Left does not support the Government's amendment proposal. So for the shielding plug-in, which has been the most mentioned here. I Prop. 130 L for 2010–2011, the Government of Stoltenberg II proposed that the old-age pension should initially be adjusted according to the same rules as the working-age pension, but that the year 1944–1951 should receive partial protection from 2011 for the impact of the living-age adjustment of 0.25 pst. because it is uncertain how the workforce would adapt to the new rules. In 2018, such an assessment was to assess how the screening was to be carried out, based on the actual adaptation of the workers to the new standard of living and the evolution of the number of disabled persons. The foundation was that the basis for a permanent rule was too spiny. Today, the government is proposing to suspend the system of early birth screening plugins from 1948 onward. This means that the old-age pension for disabled people will be adjusted by the same way as the old-age pension for the unemployed. In connection with the hearing we had, where unfortunately there were few participants, the Swedish Public Pensioners Association asked that Stortinget maintain its previous decision on partial protection and make a new assessment in 2018, as planned. At that time, you will have better knowledge of how to make work actually adapt to the new life expectancy adjustment of the old age pension. The reason for this was that the disability suffers double disadvantages by having lower incomes than those employed in the pre-age retirement period, while being cut off from the ability to work longer to counteract the impact of the retirement adjustment. The left does not support the government's proposal to change the people's rights at this point. We're talking here about a group of particularly low incomes initially, and before an assessment of full life expectancy adjustment, we should gather more knowledge about the effects of the reform we're implementing. The left can hardly see that something has happened since 2011 which gives reason for the assessment of the late majority of population not to stand. So to the question of minimum income before disability. The Government has proposed to cancel the earlier agreed difference in minimum income before disability after marital status of 3.3 times the basic amount for married/sambuars and 3.5 times the basic amount for singles, and to replace it with a common rate of 3.4. In the previous period, the Committee's multiplicity, all with the exception of the Progress Party, proposed to change the lower limit of income before disability of 3 G, as proposed by the Government for all, to 3.3 G for married/combined and 3.5 G for single. The rationale for this was to reduce the maximum reduction rates for minimum-yielding workers and to increase incentives to make use of actual income. The choice between equal or differentiated rates for single and married couples/partners is a balance between different considerations — absolute — but the majority chose to pay the most attention to the fact that the reduction in disability benefits in income above the income limit becomes the same, regardless of marital status, with a maximum curtailment rate of approx. 70 pst. for both groups. The left still supports it and therefore does not support the government's proposal for a common rate for single and married/partners. Finally, I will also be allowed to thank the case spokesperson for a solid job, for having this safely unloaded in port after a while. I also probably share the case spokesman's comment on the language, form and availability of the proposition. It's good that it's said, and we hope it listens to it. Finally, although it should come out of what is there, the Left will vote against minority proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Right and the Progress Party, in addition to voting against minority motion No. 3, where, in the light of the previous speaker's comments, it seems to be becoming a sharp hooting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2886	Let me remind you that in 2011, the Stortinget adopted Prop. 130 L, which provided the basis, the direction itself, for a new disability pension scheme. I can agree with the case rapporteur that the current pension scheme and the pension scheme can be both complex, complex and difficult to understand. It'll always be a challenge, and we'll take back signals about how to make it as understandable and educational as possible, and how to follow it up. I have been involved in handling all of the pension issues that have been dealt with in the Stortinget since 2005, and I note that this proposition does not stand out in relation to how other proposals on the pension reform have been presented and written – as has been said. A lot has been said about the different proposals. I note that the Storting does not agree with the government on several points. That's the Grandfather's sovereigns right to be that. It is such in a popular democracy that democracy rules, and the Bigholding that makes decisions. At the same time, I think some of the decisions that are taken are unwise. I think there should have been some obvious holes in the system that is now. This I want to come back a little bit. Let me start with what the rapporteur also said, that the proposal, at my discretion, involves further and significant simplifications in relation to the decisions taken earlier. We repeal the special provisions on disability benefits for home-working spouses and provide new rules on the reduction and cessation of benefits while staying in state institutions and in criminal proceedings. So to what's going on about living age adjustment. The assumption of the size, as I read the position and the proposition, was that in 2011 there was an overall labour and social committee, which, at the time of treatment, stressed that the old-age pension for the disabled should be proportionate to the old-age pension for the employed. It is clear in the setting that the government is proposing to remove the shielding deduction for the 1948-1951 coals. It only created a shielding subtraction until the 1951 coal. In fact, this will lead to a reasonable situation. What's happening is exactly the representative Heggelund pointed out that in some cases a person who is disqualified at a given age could get more in retirement than a person who is in work until 67 years of age and withdraws his old age pension. The government's proposal would lead to that they would get about equal age pension. I think that is in the context of what the Stortinget decided in 2011, namely that this should be in a reasonable sense. I note that the majority in Stortinget deviates from that principle, but that it should not lead the coals until 1951. I also record that the disability income before disability has been part of the discussion. I also think here that the government has put up to close obvious holes in what was. If we start from the minimum limit that the Stortinget set should be at 3.3 G for married and cohabited and 3.5 G for single, it becomes strange to me that if a lone low-earning person who gets disembarked goes to getting married, you get in a situation where you are not entitled to disability and then lose your disability performance. You would get a letter from Nav saying that Nav is happy that you have more to share the bills with, but that you are no longer entitled to the income insurance. Such situations, those cases, have been avoided. The hole in the social security network, the hole in the disability system, would have proved to be tight if government policies had been followed in that area. They had not discriminated against or discriminated against married and cohabiting as compared to lonely. I think that would be good and sensible policy. It's also said in terms of the average calculation of three of the five years, it's going to be more complicated, and it's almost going away from what's been thinking in the past. No, I believe that in that area too, there is an obvious hole in the pension system and in the disability scheme. The government proposes equal treatment between self-employed and many workers. This means that there are more uniform rules, which are easier to practice. It has reduced the risk of discrimination. So it's a much simpler system. Let me take an example: a person feels tired and thinks that maybe it's the age that does it, and goes into position. He may go to the doctor one and a half years later and find out that he is ill. Then you have to set the default time. The continued existence of the majority system maintains the problem of grey zone. The assessment is maintained, a more bureaucratic, heavy-rooted system is maintained that is less accurate for the individual. I think that is unfortunate, and I should have liked to have seen that the government's proposals had been supported. The whole intention of the government has been simply to seal obvious gaps that can have negative consequences for people, and to provide for a more simplified code, a more uniform code, and not least a code that is easier to comply with. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that we have now put in place all the decisions and proposals that need to be made in order to have a regulation that will enable us to complete the implementation of new disability benefits from 1 January 2015. It is a major reform, it is an important reform – a reform that everyone agrees on in the Stortinget – where a modern system of defamation allows you to combine work and disability in a good, correct and modern way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2905	No one else has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2908	President! I tried to ask for the word. I drew myself into a short post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2913	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2916	I'm not going to take the time, because we've agreed with the Committee that what's important here is to bring out the realities and similarities and differences of the matter. There was only one thing that was an obvious misunderstanding: the representative called Ropstad said that the Workers' Party was alone in the case of the rules of criminal implementation, but it is therefore the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV that are going to vote against – so that it does not remain in the record. Otherwise, it would have been tempting to get rid of many of the arguments here, but I just want to remind you that when we discuss regulatory changes in the population's privacy, it can often be a little scary to rely on type cases. That's often what we're referred to, but it doesn't always give a proper picture of reality. That's why, in the majority's view, it makes sense to wait until 2018, as we have said, and then make an assessment and see what reality looks like when we have more experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2923	Then the president will make sure that there are no more people who have not been on the list of speakers – that is not – and that there is no case. 17 have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2937	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that three lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2944	Prop. 73 L from the government contains some proposed changes to holiday laws. These are the results of the EU Working Time Directive, which is incorporated into the EEA Agreement, including: the requirement for employees to receive annual paid leave of at least four weeks is laid down. This directive has been implemented by Norway, and it has been in force here for many years. In recent years, however, the European Court of Justice has passed several judgments on Article 7 of the Directive, making it necessary to amend the Norwegian holiday law. With the clarifications given by the Court of Justice, it turns out that one of our systems is in breach of the Directive, for example: is the condition in the current Norwegian law of at least six days' work incapacity for leave, not in line with Article 7(b) of the Working Time Directive. 1st@item: inlistbox The European Court of Justice is aware that the right to four weeks paid leave every year is absolute, and employees shall not lose this right in the event of sickness, whether it occurs in advance or during the holidays. This suggests that the Committee is a good clarification from the EU. The whole committee is of the opinion that amending holiday laws § 9 paragraph. The second paragraph will strengthen the right of workers to leave and, to an even greater extent, to support what is the purpose of the holiday laws and the intention of rescuing and rescuing workers. The government's proposal goes well beyond what the directive requires, and some employers' organisations believe that the lack of special regulation for statutory leave beyond the requirements of the directive means an unnecessary over-fulfilment of the directive. To that end, I would like to stress that it is important not to create more complicated legislation than is strictly necessary, and the Committee therefore supports the government's position not to introduce specific rules for different types of statutory leave. The other thing that has been concluded is that today's holiday laws provide more opportunities for holiday money to be paid than is the case under Article 7 of the Working Time Directive. ESA has concluded that this is contrary to this article. The Committee is therefore required to agree with the government that the possibility of receiving holiday pay rather than holiday leave must fall, even in the event of sickness or parental leave. Here, too, it is important to have a simple and prudent regulatory framework. The Committee therefore does not wish to propose special rules for the payment of holiday pay for statutory holidays in addition to the requirements of the Directive. Then there has been a discussion in the committee as to whether it may be unfortunate for employees to promise to come into force from 1 July, mid-calendar. The majority of the Committee recommends that a team of 1 July 2014 as the time for the entry into force of the Act. The reason for this is that the proposed changes, as we see them, will strengthen the right of workers to leave in the event of illness. There'll be an advantage for these people if from July 1st this year, if they get sick, they'll be able to have their holidays postponed. In addition, today's rules are contrary to the Working Time Directive, and we thereby breach our obligations under the EEA Agreement. This strongly argues that the rules should be amended as soon as advice is given, in order to ensure that Norwegian legislation complies with the Directive. This applies even if the proposal could have some economic consequences for employers and the public. The other changes and proposals that this aggregation proposition makes up, are the deal in the committee, so to save time on a long meeting day, I won't comment on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2957	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good advice. As stated, this is an adaptation to the EEA Agreement and the EU Working Time Directive. It is such that under current Norwegian law, one person must have six days of incapacity for work in order to have the holiday postponed. As mentioned, four weeks paid leave is absolute, and it will strengthen the employee’s situation. The centre party has an alternative proposal. It's about the time. The proposal proposes that the law amendment of the holiday law should apply from 1 July 2014. When it is proposed that that change apply from the middle of a calendar year, there will be no agreement for 2014 between the period during which the employee will leave the holiday and the time for which the new changes will apply. We believe that it is unfortunate that one makes changes for the individual employee, and that this should only apply to parts of the holiday each takes out in 2014. This is very complicated, and we therefore propose that the changes to the holiday law only apply from 1 January 2015. This is unproblematic for the employee, it does not restrict any rights. It's cheaper for the employer, it's less administrative expenditure – and that's what we put the most emphasis on – and it's completely unproblematic with the EEA agreement if one postpones this for another six months. I just want to say that I'm surprised at the government parties, which go in to change this in the middle of a year. We have had many discussions in Stortinget in connection with many schemes, where one has developed the complications – for one to do such things. I have to say that there is something little thought about what the government has come up with at this point, based on what has been said in this room earlier. I would like to conclude by saying that in the event of an incurrency, the text of the proposal from the Central Party has become incorrect. The proposal concerns the entry into force of the Recommendation VIII and is replaced by the following: ‘The changes under I to VI shall enter into force from 1 January 2015. The amendments under VII shall enter into force immediately.’;» I ask that this be corrected to the voting. I take this up with me the proposal from the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2977	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he himself referred to. The original proposal will be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2982	Let me first give tribute to the rapporteur, who presented the matter in an excellent way and the assessments available from the government and to which a unanimous committee has joined. Just a few words to what the representative Lundteg brought up. Here we are talking about strengthening employees' rights. It's going to be done with the new change. I think it's important to get this in place as soon as possible. There's nothing disturbing about it either. As far as the date of entry into force is concerned, I think this is related to acute illness. If you do it right away, or if you wait until 2015, I don't think I have anything to say about the problem that's being addressed. I don't think people's ability to plan acute illness already from this summer vacation by. I think that's something that occurs in a short time – that's what's in the word "acute". I therefore think this is a good argument that this should be started as quickly as possible – that we are implementing this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e2991	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3005	We're eight games on the Storing. Sometimes we sometimes disagree a lot, but often we get to the goal. We agree a lot, also in this case – I will no longer tear it off. It turns out that only we work well in the committee, we do a lot there – we can spend a lot of time at Stortinget there. We do not have to hold on until midnight for this matter. We have a unanimous attitude. It's pretty short and straightforward, so short and straightforward that you can call it a plank trip. But when I'm all here in the pulpit, I'll take the opportunity to thank the Cooperation Committee, our secretary – who's also in the Chamber – and those of our advisors who are here. We have a very good cooperation. That is why we can sometimes come up with quite quickly – not simply – but simple proposals, which are easy for the Storting to adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3014	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3028	As Johnny Ingebrichtsen said, there is also a lot of good work in the Labour and Social Committee, both when the position is unanimous and when you have alternative proposals. This is a matter in which it is reasonably easy to get a unanimous vote. It concerns the regulation of the basic amount and pensions in the social security system. The Committee notes that this has been done as the Storting decision states. This year there's an upgrading of 3.67 pst. Current old-age pensions are regulated by wage growth. So let's subtract 0.75 pst, so that today's age pensioners get an annual increase of 2.89 pst, which is also a real wage increase. This is in line with current practice. Discussions were held between the government and a number of different organisations on 16 and 20 May. This Decision has been retroactively adopted from 1 May 2014. So we've got this clear. It was a fairly straightforward matter for the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3039	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3053	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3060	The issue we are dealing with here today, I think all parties – all politicians – seem to be a very difficult and sad thing. Behind the documents there are many individual ships, many individuals whom I believe most in Norway will regard as heroes, persons who sacrificed their lives and their health to the common oil wealth we all enjoy incredibly well today. These are people who for many years have been very wronged, both when they dived, and not least because of what happened for many years after it – until today’s treatment. I would first like to express a great thanks to all the divers and, not least, to their organizations, who have led an effective fight for justice and for setting a worthy sentence, so that the divers can get on with their lives. The case has been before the courts several times. It was considered so important, both in principle and in terms of content, that it was taken all the way up to the EMD, where few cases are getting through. The result of the EMD judgment was that the state was acquitted in many areas — legally speaking — but was convicted at one point. An overall committee – with all the parties behind the vote – agrees that this matter is politically and for us it is not about juss. This matter is about politics, morality, and the will and ability of the magnificence we have to cut through and provide a moral and political finishing line for this matter. Today I think there are many divers who are not satisfied. Many are partly satisfied, and some are very satisfied. I'm very happy that we've now managed to land the case with an extra payout to all the divers at 25 G. It is in addition to the 2004 scheme of up to 40 G. That means that we are now adding to the level of the maximum pay-out for war veterans, people we've sent out to fight for Norway in various foreign operations. Now we put ourselves at the same level, and it shows some of the seriousness of the matter that the Committee and the Storting are taking into account. As I started with, the committee is united, and it also gives the matter extra strength, because here all the parties have given and taken in order to agree on a good arrangement. I also want to pay tribute to the government and the government council, Robert Eriksson, who was the one who brought the case up again, and made sure that the beginning of our getting the country to this case. But even if you're now making an economic compensation, it's important to remember that money doesn't give back lost lives or lost health, so it's important that, even though we're now finishing the case politically here today, we continue the important diving-related research so that we can best treat those who have major injuries. It's important that we continue the dive contact, and not least it's important that we help future generations also know this story. Finally, I will read out a complaint that all the parties on the Stortinget are behind: ‘The Committee will demonstrate that there is a specific political and moral responsibility towards the pioneer divers. It is unmistakable that they did groundbreaking work under very difficult and unknown conditions. This group therefore deserves further political recognition and collective fame. On this basis, the Committee will express a great deal of political and moral regret to the divers, their relatives and others concerned for the events between 1965 and 1990 and also for the process of finalisation until today.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3080	I want to underline the consensus that has been reached, and I am pleased that we are now dealing with a unanimous attitude. I would like to start by stressing and joining in the regret that has been unanimously included in the document, which was now referred to by the case rapporteur. It's in place and it has all of the parties' full support. When the judgment came to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, our starting point was that if there was agreement between the Council of State and the representatives of the North Sea divers, we would support such agreement. There was no agreement, so I think we have found a good solution when we now, as the economic part of the compensation, ended up at 25 G, which is right between the Council of State proposal and what we were presented to by representatives of the North Sea divers in the hearing. I would also like to underline the agreement on the other points mentioned by the case-rapporteur, namely the continuation of the Diving Contact, the review of the dives' working conditions today, and not least continued research for that professional group, as well as the memory plaque, which we agree to be placed at the Oil Museum. In order to underline the consensus, I will only finally be allowed, as the case rapporteur, to thank the divers for their efforts, not only the efforts that have been made in a pioneering period in the North Sea, which has become incredibly important for the Norwegian community, but also the efforts that have been made in the follow-up to the case. I hope that the unanimity we now have on the matter will set a worthy sentence for a matter that the divers have rightly felt unworthy in the past. I hope we put a worthy sentence for a difficult matter, first and foremost for the divers, their closest and surviving. They really deserve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3091	This is a day I think very many have been waiting for, not only on the day it went up for very many people that something wrong had happened, but also in the days after, that became months, that turned into years, that turned into decades, that went over an entire generation. This means that it is far from anyone who gets the opportunity to experience today, both that the Storting apologizes, that the Storting says thank you, and also that you give an economic compensation that is such that most people can be satisfied with it. That is why, as chairman of the Committee, I have now received a unanimous decision on behalf of the entire Committee and all the parties to the Stortinget – including those parties which are not members of the Committee. I want to praise all the parties for the very good process we had a few weeks ago. I believe that what we have done in this committee is that a very unworthy case for Norway can now bring a worthy conclusion. I am delighted to see that this is now a solution. It is estimated that approx. 365 people with a lasting relationship with Norway have participated in petroleum-related diving during the pioneer period. When we include how many people these have been spouses, uncles, aunts – for that matter, if there were women with – children and grandchildren for, there are thousands of people who have felt it directly on the body for a long time. It is absolutely unmistakable that the divers did groundbreaking work in the North Sea, under very difficult and unknown conditions, and many suffered health and damage. For us in the Right, it is also important that this group receive the political recognition they deserve and that collective fame be given to the divers. It is therefore proposed that the divers be granted additional compensation than the government proposed. Together with some other proposals proposed by the government, this becomes a total solution to highlight them. The starting point for the case is that the Right-Fremskritsparte-regieringen and State Council Robert Eriksson wanted a worthy conclusion of the case for all parties. When the matter came to Stortinget, the committee, which I am chairing, arranged a hearing with all the organizations that organize the divers. It revealed that there was a need for a new round between the lots. Fortunately, it was done. The size today chooses to extend the compensation from 20 to 25 G, an increase from approx. 1.7 to 2.2 million. kr. The updated value of the case that was not long ago, when the G was increased. Then there was a pretty big increase for the 25 G as well. In order to honour the efforts of divers for Norway, it is proposed to set up a memorial plaque at the Norwegian Oil Museum in Stavanger, and we also ensure a continuation of the contact phone for the pioneers, the Diver Contact, which is a 24-hour telephone service for the follow-up of former North Sea divers, which we experience has been well received over a long time since it was introduced. Thus, the Storting gives a written political and moral regret to the divers, their relatives and others affected by the events throughout the period 1965-1990 and for that process of final closure to this day. I'll finish with one more time saying thank you to the North Sea divers, thank you to the families. With a complaint and compensation, I hope that the Stortinget has thus contributed to the fact that an unworthy case can be brought to a worthwhile conclusion. As committee chairman, I can say that this should have happened a lot before. When things didn't happen much before, I'm very happy that this is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3108	I would also like to add to the range of those who thank the Committee and the rapporteur for their good work. For the Christian People's Party, it's been a crossword that's been important in this case, and it's getting a dot. It's a dark chapter in history, as many have been in the past. And being able to set a final sentence, both from the political side and, not least, from the individual, has been important to us. Now, hopefully, and after all of the sun's marks that dot, and that's good. Unfortunately, everyone who deserves to hear it and see it is no longer here, but I still believe that the survivors and relatives greatly appreciate the decision taken today. There are four points that I want to raise. Like others, I would like to say that this is the particular regret I think is important – that in the way that the committee unanimously expresses itself, we show that we appreciate the job that has been done. It is difficult to fully understand the burden they have had and that their relatives have been put on. It also supports how important it has been that the complaint comes from all of us. It is clear that the level of compensation is important. I think it's been a good process in government and the Great Government, where we've managed to get to a unanimous position, which I also think is some of the good things about the Great Government, that one can find a good result, so that it can stand without any kind of political game. I am also pleased that the Diving Contact, as the Bondevik administration introduced, should also be able to continue. It has been helpful for the individual diver. I know that, for every time I have met representatives of the North Sea divers, they have usually mentioned the Diving Contact. We are pleased with the plaque to appear at the Norwegian Oil Museum, because this is part of Norwegian history, which we must not forget. We have to learn from what went wrong, and we have to remember those who did such an important job for us all. This is an honor that is important for honoring the divers, for the survivors and relatives. Then I will also pay tribute to my predecessor on the Stortinget, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, who was both a representative of East-Agder and a member of the Labour and Social Committee and the Social Committee. She fought for the North Sea divers, and told me that I had to promise to keep going. So I will praise the efforts she made in her time, and not least also the Council of State Robert Eriksson. It is dangerous to say that, but I believe that the commitment he has had has helped to raise the matter, so that we have come to where we have come today. I'm not sure if it would have been the case if it hadn't been the council that had been sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3125	The pioneer divers did an extremely dangerous job. Many were permanently injured, and many have already fallen away. Many relatives have been put under a heavy strain by the health situation of the pioneers divers. It is very strong to experience this for the efforts made in the long period 1965–1990. As others have noted, the Committee has expressed a total regret. I would like to put it further: the North Sea divers were exposed in their work to a very high health hazard with the following late effects without the authorities contributing necessary to make this clear to the divers. This is what makes the matter very special. I am very pleased with the agreement on a compensation of 25 G, and a joint committee considers the matter to be finally concluded through this compensation, as this is a final, but I would stress, voluntary arrangement. The individual has six months of notice, and the individual recipient then undertakes not to proceed with the case in the legal system. Finally, I would like to commend the Offshore Diver Union for its great efforts to bring about more justice, for their perseverance, objective efforts for the benefit of all divers whether they are part of the Offshore Divers Union or of others. It has become a worthy conclusion for which, not least, the organisation has a large part of the credit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3136	A lot of people have fought for the North Sea divers, not least for them. What's happening in the Storting today is important. I want to say that it is also a result of good political craftsmanship. There have been differing views in this matter between the various party groups, both in the treatment of the matter now and not least for many years. But everyone has acted wisely, has been willing to adapt, to adjust, to gather. That's what's important. When it comes to the result, the left is very happy about it. Last year, we suggested that a settlement of about 25 G could be a reasonable level to put on. That was the end result – it's good. We have also said that the most important thing now is that one gets a consensus decision in Stortinget – we get that too. It is such with excuses that one cannot demand that someone accept them – one can only give them. Similarly, we cannot demand that all those who have been victims of injustice be satisfied with or accept what we are doing today – we can only offer it. We offer a compensation that we hope they experience as right and worthy of those who are offered one. And more important than that is, in my view, that we, as the national parliament of the country, give a clear excuse for the injustices that have been inflicted on a group in society. Fortunately, we must not do so often – most people in this country are treated well. But once someone doesn't, it's all the more important that political Norway takes the common responsibility of saying clearly that it's made a mistake here, and we're going to do our best to fix it and hope that it's accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3149	We each have a different approach to this matter. My approach to this matter and the people were in 1977 when I, when I was 17-18 years old, took a sports diving certificate. My teachers, who taught me to dive and the environment I ended up in, were just the ones I see symbolically now standing above us, up in the gallery. I got the introduction of what this really was many years ago. I know a lot of them. When we finished diving in the evenings on the trips, the stories came. It was a powerful lesson that happened to bring me here to bring this to an end. I see you, and we see you. We had not had our extra wealth in Norway without these divers. We had not reached the result we have reached now, without a fight. I'm glad to have been able to get to the end. I am also glad that this is perceived by the divers, and received, well in relation to what has been. I'm also glad that the big, heavy stone is settled now. And then we're just going to hope that the other stones around, which are smaller, will also calm down in the great stream that has been. [[Refers to gallery:]] The result had not come without your divers traveling. It had not come without you having worked, and it had not come without you having fought. I agree with the apology that all the others in the committee have made on behalf of the whole Storting. Thank you again!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3158	It is hopefully a brand day, a worthy day and a worthy decision The Stortinget shall do tonight. The first time I was introduced to this matter was when I, as a apprentice, came into Stortinget as an adviser for the insidious John Alvheim, who also showed a long, warm and good commitment to the matter. Many depositors in different parties have been engaged. This case is not about who has been engaged, and who has not had it. It's about the fact that the greatest exposure has been to the people who stood in that everyday life, participated in the operations and lightened after the oil from 1965 until 1990. I am very pleased that the decision of a unanimous magnificence is taking place today. I also thank you for the nice words of several representatives, but what gives the greatest reason to thank us for having this case, is that for the first time we opened the department doors when the North Sea dive alliance knocked on the door and would sit down and discuss again how we could put a worthy sentence in a case that had taken place for too long – a matter that should have been closed a long time ago, a matter that should have had a final decision perhaps 10–15–20 years ago, but which finally gets that decision today. I am also pleased with the compensation granted by Stortinget, but this is not about money. This isn't about size. For the people who don't experience this, for the families who are left at home, for the kids who are there, money cannot replace the lives of the people who have been lost. They cannot be bought back under any circumstances. In addition to the unanimous agreement on compensation, which at least sets a worthy political sentence, I am also pleased that we are together – including with recordings. from the North Sea Diving Alliance – able to travel a memorial plaque, manage to get more embarrassing relationships that will also deal with those children who are adults today, who continue to maintain their diving contact, that we sit down again with the Petroleum Control and Industry and look at the working conditions of the divers today and, not least, at a plaque that helps to show the importance of these people to the nation. There, descendants can walk with pride, think through, know sleep, but also know pride in what this generation – these people – has done for the Kingdom of Norway. As I said, I am very pleased that we have completed a matter that has been going on for far too long, for too many years. Many have stood by, but the greatest effort and the greatest thanks should go to those who have fought for their comrades and for themselves throughout all these years, who have made us today get a good, worthy, unanimous decision in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3171	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3186	Today, we are discussing changes to the law and follow-up to the revised IA agreement agreed by the parties in March of this year. The objectives of reducing sick leave, including the inclusion of more people with reduced working capacity in the labour market and of stimulating people to stay longer in work are set. However, the new agreement contains all necessary simplifications in the follow-up to the IA agreement of 2010. The whole basic idea of the IA agreement is that work is often the right medicine, that being able to go to work little by little, being able to have contact with the working life, even when you're ill, can help get you back faster. Work creates health. You don't have to go to work only when you're healthy. You should also be able to go to work to get well. This is the employer’s side, the employer’s side and the Norwegian authorities’ agreement. It also suggests that the IA agreement is perhaps the best example of the good results that the Norwegian model and tripartite cooperation provide to the Norwegian community. Reforms come into being in agreement, thereby also increasing the possibilities for good intentions to become reality. Very few other countries can refer to the type of obligatory, long-term and involved work. The IA agreement of 2010 gave us – after extensive work in different expert groups and after negotiations between the parties – extensive changes in the follow-up to sick leave, including obligations and monitoring of follow-up and penalties for non-response. As the Storting then, in 2010, considered the necessary legislative changes in order to implement that agreement, an overall committee stressed that sanctions should never be an end in themselves but that they could be an appropriate instrument, but only if they actually lead to a change in behaviour and better follow-up. The Committee then asked that this be followed closely. We also quickly saw that parts of the 2010 IA agreement were more difficult to implement and follow-up than planned, including the sanctioning regime that was released in time. In January 2012, I addressed an interpellation to the Minister of Labour at the time, so that the Storting could be properly briefed, but also an opportunity to discuss how the IA agreement was implemented, how the new instruments worked. We just did that because we saw – through various headlines in the media and also through different recordings we got around at the workplace – that there were opportunities for improvement. I am very pleased that the new IA agreement and the changes in the laws we are adopting today are doing exactly what we then needed, that the IA work is improved by simplifying and red tape of the sick leave follow-up. We're continuing what works today, reverses what doesn't work and improves the agreement on a number of points. The IA agreement will never lead to a more inclusive working life for more people if it is not actively followed up by the parties. We are totally dependent on the fact that the different actors want to have the agreement and thus carry out what is their part of the work. We must have employees, employers and health professionals who believe in the contract, who want the contract, and who play on the team. In addition, it is extremely important for the future of the agreement that it appears lucrative to the companies – that it is worth it – and not just leads to burdensome desktop routines. In my opinion, it is important that the Storting also discuss the implementation and status of the IA work at regular intervals, so that we can be well up-to-date, so that we can make it work as planned, and that we can also help to make implementation easier if necessary. It is also important that the Storting discuss inclusive working life at regular intervals, because we also know that debate and attention around, for example. sick leave, in itself, helps to reduce absenteeism. Finally, I would just like to point out that an overall committee highlights the importance of the human resources now available within Nav, which will no longer operate with control and follow-up in that way, instead – and of course – used for closer and better follow-up of sick people in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3207	When Prop. 102 L is presented to the Stortinget, it is about changes to the Labour Environment Act and the National Social Security Act, about simplifying the legislation for the follow-up of sick workers. The government's aim is to get more people working because work has a self-value for the individual, but also for society. Work means that each contributes to building Norway stone by stone. At the same time, there are also people who are part of the ordinary working life, who can face obstacles that make them sick later. It is a challenge for the sick person, but also for the employer – for the sick person because you fall out of the labour market completely or for a period of time, but also for the employer because important skills are lost in part or completely in the same period. That is why the IA Agreement, which was concluded on 4 March of this year, is so important because it is designed to provide a good working environment at work, but also to actively remove the obstacles that make people sick. The IA Agreement has a background to a tradition of cooperation and trust between authorities, workers and employers in Norway. The agreement is based on a common recognition that the workplace is the most important containment area and that early activation of sick-seekers and the implementation of organisational measures at the workplace will help prevent and reduce sick leave. The most important thing is interaction in the workplace, not forms and penalties. The aim is to build trust between the employer and the sick person. Simplification and less red tape in the follow-up to sick workers is also the government's objective to free resources both in the workplace and in the Employment and Welfare Act. The aim is lower sick leave, higher retirement age and increased integration of people with disabilities into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3228	I just have a few words for another important thing. Let me start by saying that it was incredibly important for the government, when we started the IA work, to make sure that we get a targeted IA agreement, an IA agreement that takes care of the IA agreement in a good and correct way. I am very pleased with the unanimity that is in Stortingen in view of the simplification that is now taking place, because it is a significant simplification, both for Nav, for the doctors, for the sick person and not least for the employers. We're talking about simplifications, which means you're looking away from control forms and paper piles, and you're reducing 1,500 forms every single day that are no longer going to be sent to Nav. This means that around 69 Nav employees are released, who, together with the employer, are now able to follow up the individual ill-diagnosed closer, better and more correctly to return to work. When we also see that the increase occurs largely within the context of mental disorders, we know how important it is with close, correct and close follow-up. It's taken this government into account, and I'm very happy that we've managed to go through the IA agreement, where all the social partners have come together about and made these good changes. Then it's also very good, and I'm very glad, that a unanimous big thing follows it up as well. Then I would like to say a little more that reminds me of what the representative of the Trettebergstuen mentioned, namely that it is important to discuss IA work regularly in Stortinget. It is important to also discuss all the objectives of an IA agreement, not just Objective 1. That's why I also want to make the Storting aware, and I'm very pleased that we've reached an IA agreement that is more committed to Objective 2, in the sense that now IA companies will commit themselves to making their businesses available, so that they can be used much more actively to help people get back to work, including those who have been out of work, in ordinary businesses. I think that's good, it's important. People live their everyday lives in real life and really need those jobs to train to come back, because you're going to get into the real jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3241	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3255	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party Group and 5 minutes to the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3264	There is a great deal of agreement on the government’s proposals for tax, tax and customs legislation in relation to the revised national budget for 2014 and I would assume that other parties will explain their divergent views in the areas where this is relevant. There is a broad consensus on the proposed action relating to petroleum taxes and transitional rules for the reduction of free income. This amendment is an adjustment to the decision taken by Stortinget in connection with the revised national budget last year, where the rate of exemption was reduced, but where it was arranged for a transitional arrangement in which this reduced rate of freedom was not to apply to projects subject to plans for expansion or application under the petroleum Act § 4-2 and § 4-3, delivered to the Ministry of Oil and Energy before 5 May 2013. The Government's proposal in this proposition to extend the transitional rule will apply where there is a necessary link between the development and pipeline project, so that the overall project is also covered by the transitional arrangement. Furthermore, a time limit has also been set within which the transitional rules will actually apply, and the majority of them agree that the rule does not affect costs incurred as of the 2021 year of income. It is good that the majority supports this change. One of our main competitive advantages for the oil and gas activity on the Norwegian base is stability and predictability related to the framework conditions. This adjustment strengthens the predictability of investment decisions on Norwegian pedestal. Furthermore, it is a unanimous committee that supports under the Government's proposals for changes to the shipping tax system and joint and several liability for employers' obligations here, and also agrees on the amendments proposed in relation to VAT and real estate. In the case of changes proposed in the boat engine fee, the tax-free scheme and the electricity charge, these have been dealt with in the Innst. 260 S for 2013–2014 and will be fully debated in the context of the review of the revised national budget in the Grand Duchy next Friday. The Government is committed to ensuring the legal certainty of taxpayers, and this is also a field of action enshrined in the Sundvolden Declaration. In this round, the government proposes, among other things: tightening the rules on public tax lists. The tax lists shall remain public on the tax haven’s websites on the Internet, but in such a way that information on who has applied for in the tax lists is made available electronically to taxpayers. Similarly, taxpayers will have access to information about who has been provided with written tax list information, in addition to spouses, roommates, bankruptcies or courts. There is a broad consensus that information on shareholders in limited liability companies should be publicly available. All limited liability companies are also required to have a shareholder book under Section 4-5 of the Share Act, and this shareholder book shall be available to anyone who wishes to have access to it. In addition, there has been a discussion relating to the Tax DG’s shareholder register and the disclosure of shareholders and the provision of information. It is such that this shareholder register only contains information about the company until the end of the year for which it is reported, and that register is therefore less suitable for being some kind of digital platform or public-friendly solution for collecting shareholder information. The Right and Advance Parties, together with a Joint Committee, want to facilitate a greater degree of available information on who had to own shares in Norwegian companies at all times. Therefore, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, together with the Ministry of Finance, is asked to establish a public solution with information on shareholders, which ensures greater transparency, with establishment during 2015. We look forward to this establishment and the contribution that this will make information about ownership more accessible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3292	The debate on Innst. 261 L could actually be a taste on Friday's debate on the revised national budget, but I had almost said, it's a long night. It's not quite that late, but at least I'm just going to focus on some of the main points of what are proposals for changes in tax, tax and customs legislation. Then we got to wait and enjoy the debate on taxi-free and boat engines on Friday. We in the Progress Party are in agreement with what has been said by the rapporteur, and at the same time I would like to thank Meling for the cooperation within the Committee and for the broad consensus that is around the important points in this vote. The shareholder register of the Tax Directorate, which was also the representative of Meling, has received a lot of attention, and there has been a lot of debate about the proposals contained in the proposal, relating to the register. There is reason to stress that both government and government parties are very concerned with the most transparency around and the availability of information of general interest. Therefore, the government will establish a digital and user-friendly register, which provides information about shareholders. The Committee requests that this be done during 2015. Then it is important to stress that although disclosure of financial interests and positions is important, we also need to safeguard the legal certainty of taxpayers, and we need to respect the fact that some information is given in confidentiality between taxpayers and the equality authorities. The majority of the Committee also endorses the government's proposal for amendments to the Equation Act, which gives individual taxpayers access to information on searches carried out on their own persons. It's a very important change that doesn't limit publicity, but can help prevent the misuse of information, by leaving tracks to the applicant. I Prop. 94 LS refers to the work undertaken by the government in simplifying tax legislation, strengthening the legal certainty of taxpayers and reviewing the tax appeal system. The tax system shall be cost-effective and it must be easy to understand the legislation in order to ensure that both business and private individuals have the opportunity to act as law-abiding citizens. In this way, the government’s proposal to amend the VAT rules for the rental of, inter alia, real estate by removing the requirement of voluntary registration for those already registered in the levy, a proper step. It is a proposal that has not received as much mention as the Aktionar register, but in my opinion it is a very important simplification and modernisation proposal, and we in the Progress Party have been concerned with this repeatedly earlier. The legal provisions that are now being amended have, in reality, resulted in considerable economic surprises for a number of traders, as well as for operators in agriculture, despite the fact that they have been in good faith but have not provided for additional registration in the VAT register. We in the Progress Party are very pleased with this change and believe it to be a sensible change of rules, which can help people to remain law-abiding and respect tax rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3311	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3325	It's a unanimous finance committee that stands together about Prop's setting. 87 L. I would like to thank the Committee for the cooperation which has been delegated to the Committee in the preparation of the matter. There is no doubt that the Norwegian financial industry is important for Norway. The financial industry provides capital to enterprises, distributes risks and contributes to the building up of capital in society. The financial industry is international, and we therefore need international rules to facilitate access by Norwegian companies to the EU and the rest of the world. The proposal for a new law on credit rating agencies comes, for example: as a consequence of EU Regulation No. 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies. The new law is important because credit rating agencies play an increasingly important role when more and more Norwegian companies borrow money for growth and new jobs directly in the bond market rather than through traditional banks. The regulation of outsourcing is a central moment in the suspension. A co-opted committee stresses that consideration of the sound organisation under the concession, privacy and unimpaired supervisory authority of the undertaking must be included in the overall assessment. The customer owns his own information and the protection of privacy and confidentiality of customer information is important. A co-ordinated financial committee also underlines the need to take efficiency and competitiveness into account at the same time. The aim of the law is, of course, not to impose unnecessary competitive disadvantages on Norwegian financial undertakings compared to competitors in other countries. The aim is to ensure sound regulation of outsourcing also in Norway. Norway is bound by EU rules and, of course, does not want to go beyond these rules. Another important theme in the proposition is gender-neutral contributions and benefits in life insurance contracts that are private, voluntary and out of employment. Today, the requirement of coherence between premium and risk means that insurance companies cannot ignore factors that have a significant impact on the risk. This means that women have higher pension contributions than men because women have longer life expectancy. Now the law is amended so that insurance companies can no longer use gender as a calculation criterion. However, this change creates a new issue related to the transfer of existing contracts with guaranteed benefits and profit-sharing. Any requirement for relocation to trigger gender-neutral tariffs in the company to which the contract is transferred would lead to the relocation of the traditional, guaranteed contracts that IPA and annuity have stopped. I am therefore pleased that a joint finance committee supports the government's proposal that the transfer of such agreements cannot be regarded as the conclusion of a new agreement and that companies must be given sufficient time to adapt to new rules. This is about finding practical and good solutions that do not affect the industry more than is strictly necessary. In conclusion, let me once again thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3347	I Prop. 87 L many different legislative proposals have been promoted in several financial market laws. I note that the Committee has unanimously joined the proposals. Several of the legislative changes are follow-up to the EEA Agreement. The current rules on the ownership of stock exchanges and securities registers are changed to owner-control rules, similar to those currently applicable, inter alia. financial institutions and investment firms. With these changes, a long-term discussion with ESA could hopefully end. Requirements for gender-neutral contributions and benefits are introduced for new contracts in non-employment private and voluntary life insurance. In order to contribute to a functioning relocation market for savings and pension agreements with guaranteed benefits and profit-sharing which are no longer offered in the market, it is considered that the transfer of such contracts should not be considered as the conclusion of a new agreement. I have noticed that a joint committee supports this. I have also noticed that the Committee agrees with the government that companies need to be given sufficient time to adapt to new rules, and it is proposed that the rules enter into force on 1 January 2015. The rules of the Financial Contracts Act implementing the EEA rules on cross-border payments in euro and technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro are updated in line with new EU and EEA rules. A separate new law on credit rating agencies implements EEA rules corresponding to EU Regulation No. 1060/2009, CRA I, on credit rating agencies. The Regulation was adopted in the EU before the adoption of the new EU system of financial supervision, and therefore no adaptations were necessary when incorporated into the EEA Agreement. However, following CRA I, both CRA II and CRA III have been adopted in the EU. Those amending Regulations confer on ESMA supranational competence, which is the EU Securities Markets Authority, and therefore cannot be incorporated into the EEA Agreement without adaptation. It will not be possible to establish and operate credit rating activities in the EEA territory without also subjecting the activities to the requirements of CRA II and CRA III. It will therefore not be possible to establish this type of activity in Norway until now, despite the new law now adopted. The implementation of the Regulation in Norwegian law is therefore made solely to comply with our formal EEA obligations. Furthermore, the right to the processing of sensitive personal data in connection with authorisation schemes for employees is now regulated. investment firms, unit trusts and financial institutions. This applies to private schemes without any official approval. Authorisation schemes are a positive complement to the regulation of public law, inter alia. financial and insurance advisers. These schemes contribute to increased knowledge and competence among these professional groups, which will benefit consumers. I therefore believe that it has been important to facilitate the provision of adequate access to sensitive personal data to these systems, so that they can function properly and at the same time be subject to adequate supervision by the Data Protection Authority. The outsourcing of business by financial institutions is an important – and growing – field, which at the same time appears to be weakly regulated. Now rules are adopted that better clarify the regulation of outsourcing in Norwegian legislation. There is no contradiction between the smallest standards laid down by the EU, the national space for action provided for by the EU rules, and the legal provisions we are now laying down in Norway. The rules are based on proposed new rules on outsourcing in the Banking Law Commission’s suspension with draft new Financial Enterprise Law. The legal rules adopted today will, in the same way as recently adopted financial market legislation, be incorporated into the proposal for a new single law on financial undertakings and the financial group that will be promoted in a short time. Because outsourcing is an important area, through this proposition, we have asked for the Storting's immediate consideration of the proposal for rules. As stated in the proposal and in the setting, competitive conditions will be considered as part of the overall picture to be taken when the concession clause is to be exercised. The aim of the law is not to impose unnecessary competitive disadvantages on Norwegian financial undertakings vis-à-vis undertakings in other countries, but to provide for proper regulation of outsourcing also in Norway. There will be a significant possibility for different types of outsourcing under the proposal. Non-core tasks may in principle be contracted if they are sound and the outsourced activities can be supervised. Core tasks may not initially be outsourced unless such outsourcing is permitted by law. A judgement will be made in relation to applications or outsourcing notices when deciding on the issue of authorisation. The starting point is that there are major challenges and potential risks associated with outsourcing, depending on the nature of the individual outsourcing and the manner in which it is intended. It is important to ensure that legitimate and important supervisory aspects are taken into account, as well as ensuring proper operation. It is also important to ensure that there is no uncertainty about the safe and confidential processing of personal data and more generally confidential information. Such information may have significant value for criminals, may be difficult to repair when the damage has occurred, and may also have great value for commercial purposes with which the customer is not familiar or familiar. So there are major societal interests in ensuring that this is a field that is subject to appropriate legal regulation. Proposals have also been made for the amendment of Section 7 of the Financial Supervision Act, which is a clean-up and simplification of the provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3375	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3389	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the Council of State shall be given 5 minutes of speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3400	Maritime transport is an important part of the Norwegian transport system and accounts for 92 pst. of goods in international trade and 42 pst. of domestic goods transport. We see that freight transport is still increasing, but unfortunately it is also the case that road freight takes up most of the increase. In order to reverse this trend and get a greater share of freight across the sea, measures are needed to stimulate higher profitability. Without political intervention, we will be able to see a deterioration in these developments. In September 2013, the Stoltenberg government launched a short-haul shipping strategy with measures to get more goods across by sea. The bet on ports and fairways was strengthened by 50 pst. in the national transport plan. I am pleased that the sitting government in its statement states that the bet of the current NTP should be continued. The Lostenesta is an important maritime security measure funded by the users. The Lostness Service has faced several challenges in recent years. In 2012, the Stoltenberg government dropped a public selection to review the Lostenberg service, and this Lostenberg selection was broadly combined with actors from all over the industry. The selection delivered its launch in June 2013, ‘With a Sea Safety Out’, and the selection is largely in agreement with what the future looting service should look like. I would like to use the opportunity here to give tribute to the government that, at least for now, has followed up the previous government's commitment to maritime transport – and now the Los Selection option. I would also like to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive cooperation, and I would like to stress that it is essentially a joint committee which supports its position and comments. The Committee is engaged in ensuring a high level of maritime safety and in taking action before the Lisbon service that helps to make maritime transport more attractive. There is something bad about it, and I expect that through the debate the various parties will do more about their views on the matter. So I'll go into the more professional aspects of the proposition and the message part of it. A joint committee of mine there shall be a general discharge limit for vessels above 70 metres that a cost-effective discharge mechanism for fishing vessels and small cargo vessels should be able to pass through the proposed changes to the certificate system that the specific discharge obligation for passenger vessels is raised to 50 metres that the vessel is subject to the general release limit of 70 metres when no passenger is on board to obtain a differentiation of the restrictions for vessels carrying the different categories of hazardous and polluting substances; When it comes to the assessment of the geographical scope of the discharge, the Committee endorses the general rule that there should be obligations to be released within the baseline, opening up to minor adjustments and changes in unobliged corridors and unloading areas. In the case of the special assessment of the creation of a new unloading field in the Bastuit area for the main part of the traffic in Oslofjord, it is a bit broken in the Committee. For my part, I would like to point out that the Workers' Party will not decide to move the unloading field now, but I would like to expect the result of the notification. We ask the government then, in an appropriate way, to come back with a recommendation to the Stortinget. In the case of port relocations, or delays, the Committee believes that short and security-free port movements are not a matter of priority. Land-based unloading will not be able to replace regular unloading on a large scale. Therefore, on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the economic and security implications, the Committee would not recommend such a solution for unloading. The recommendation for the Fair Card Scheme is one of the most important steps being taken in the message part of the proposal. The Committee endorses the Los Selection Recommendation that the Fair Card System is now being made much easier for the industry and that we now have a differentiated scheme of three different fairways divided into classes based on an assessment of the level of risk represented by the different groups of ships. The Committee is also concerned that the system of evidence of fairs is made more flexible, so that more people can benefit from the scheme. But anyway, the most important thing here is that the qualification of the fleets' own navigators through the fairway will take care of the safety along the coast in a good way, while there is also a system that reduces the cost of maritime transport and thus makes it more competitive. That is why it is also important to assess the system of unloading taxes, which currently accounts for about 700 million. kr per year. Charges should be reduced, and perhaps they should be removed entirely as a means of achieving the objective of transferring goods from road to sea. Reorganisation is often necessary to render a service even better, and a Joint Committee agrees with the decision that the operational looting service should be organised as a unit directly under its head office and that the management tasks should be delegated by another department, organisationally separated from the looting unit. It is important to note, however, that a number of members of the Committee stress that this does not mean that all the batch and batch operations will be grouped together in one place, but that a search for a division of tasks and functions is the most appropriate in relation to the activity. At the same time, this plurality underlines that this must not mean that all management tasks will be collected in one place, but that one here also seeks to maintain a professional and competence environment along the whole coast. I ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to these leaderships from Stortinget. In the case of the housing service, the Committee is somewhat more divided in its observations. The task of the housing service is to carry the pilots to and from the unloading operations, and it is today the Coast Guard's pilots and pilots, boarded rowboats with crews and hired helicopter services that make up this service. The main part is driven by the Coastal Works itself, with about 90 pst. of the assignment. The Committee has noted the Government’s decision that the host Member State should be put off for competition. The Committee's plurality is positive and drives this warning of the postponement of competition. From the Labour Party's point of view, I would like to stress that we are sceptical about this, and will show that the housing services also have an important preparedness role in several coastal areas. We are concerned that any postponing competition must be based on professional and cost criteria, not on purely ideological grounds, which can be very significant at present. We have argued that the government will ensure that the reorganization of the housing services can be carried out in accordance with the rules on the transfer of property and that they will exercise their rights properly. We have five maritime traffic monitoring and control centres in Norway for maritime traffic and other traffic in areas where traffic presents a particular risk to maritime safety and the environment. The Ministry of Transport will implement a breakdown of different options for the organisation of maritime traffic centres, including aggregation. From the Labour Party's point of view, we would like to warn that we are opposed to the co-location of the five maritime traffic centres, as these have just been created in an area where traffic represents a special risk to maritime safety and the environment. And then finally, I'm going to go into the legal part of the proposition. That's where the decisions themselves come from. In NOU 2013: 8 points to the need to update and modernise the current Losing Law and its regulations, and the draft law that is now in the lead is an almost full review of the current law. The aim is to simplify and modernise the legislation and that the legal text is also harmonised with the wording of port and maritime law. This is also where questions of principle are raised from the regulatory level to the legal level, especially in the context of the labour market document scheme. It is a joint committee which joins the objective of the pilot scheme to help reduce the risk of unwanted maritime transport events, so as to avoid damage to life and health, the environment and material values. The Committee is therefore very pleased that we are now adopting an up-to-date and new non-binding law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3456	New leave laws and changes in the organisation of unloading services are the result of the proposals made in NOU 2013: 8 Out of maritime safety – the scope, organisation and regulation of the pilot scheme. A wide range of recommendations were made that would modernise the unloading service and contribute to the continued safety and safety of maritime traffic. This proposition follows to a large extent the recommendations made by the NOU and to which it is a relatively broad support. The locomotive system shall ensure safe movement at sea and protection of the environment by ensuring that vessels operating in Norwegian coastal waters have navigational skills and competence. It is important to stress that the obligation to leave the company has broad support from the shipping companies and the industry. For this reason, it is important to ensure that the quality of the unloading service is good, that it is available and that it is operated as efficiently as possible. The unloading obligation may be resolved in two ways, either by using the public pilot service or by qualifying own navigational officers through the FAD. With today's modern technical equipment, many people may claim that the unloading is unnecessary. I don't share that view. Knowledge of the fairway and knowledge of maritime traffic in the waters on which ships sail are important for safety and the pilots possess this competence. But so do many of the ship's own navigators. That is why the Fair Card System is important. Long-experienced navigators and masters are good losers and can and should be qualified through the Fair Card System. The Government has proposed to facilitate the use of the FAD scheme for the industry. It is proposed that a differentiated scheme be set up with three grades of evidence. The purpose of the scheme is to ensure the quality of the shipowners’ own navigators with the necessary experience and knowledge to operate ships in an unincorporated area. The changes proposed will make the schemes easier to use and more flexible, while ensuring safety. It is expected that more people will be able to use the scheme and that it will provide a saving for the industry. It is important that the scheme be seen as user-friendly for the shipping companies and that good and unbureaucratic arrangements are now being made for the qualification of the navigators. The scope of the commitment has been assessed. The general rule of non-compliance within the baseline is continued. There are today 12 unobstructed areas/corridors that go from the baseline to the boarding field. The Losing Committee has assessed these areas and proposes that the unloading field in Oslofjorden be moved further into the fjord of Baskød. There has been a lot of discussion about this measure, as there are national parks both at Outer Whales and Fäder. The Government's proposal is in line with the position of the Losing Committee and will be implemented if up-to-date investigations show that this is environmentally and safety-proof and, overall, provides a saving. At the same time, a disembarkation field in the outer Oslofjord will be maintained for vessels calling further into the fjord and for vessels wishing to disembark throughout the outer Oslofjord. I trust that up-to-date professional investigations will provide the necessary clarification as to whether this is a proper adjustment. In addition, the Losing Committee has established that the unbundling of short and safety unproblematic movements in ports is not appropriate and will provide for such a derogation. It's a practical approach it seems there's a broad consensus about. It is a goal of the Right-wing Party Government to reduce costs and thus also the charges for unloading. Today, the lot service is 100 pst. user-funded, and there is a significant cost to shipping, not least for short sea shipping. The government has announced that it will assess a reduction in the unloading charges and will return to this in the annual budgets. We're happy about that. The most nearby would be to reduce or eliminate the unloading emergency charge. It will result in much lower costs for maritime transport and will contribute to achieving the important objective of improving the competitiveness of short sea shipping and could be an instrument for moving more goods from road to sea. An important step in establishing a clearer distinction and clearer boundaries between management tasks and operations is to make the operational unloading service a separate unit directly under the head office of the Coastal Works and that management tasks are separated from the operational tasks. Such organisation will provide clear responsibilities and clarify the tasks to be financed by the unloading charges. It is provided that this amendment shall enter into force as from 1 January 2015. In the comments of the majority, in this case the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, there is a scepticism that this should mean that all operational and administrative activities are brought together in one place. I do not share that concern and feel confident that the coastal director will find a good form of organisation that will safeguard the good professional environment we have in this area. In the light of the organisational changes in the pilotage services, it is natural to look at the organisation of both pilotage and maritime traffic centres. There are good reasons to see the unloading services in the context of the operational unloading service. Technological development also makes it natural to look at the organisation of maritime traffic centres. The aim must be to ensure a high-quality service while keeping costs down. Within these limits, it is our responsibility that the piloting service is operated in such a way that it does not impose unnecessary costs on shipping. Therefore, I think it is a little surprising that both the Workers' Party and the Center's party already now, before the investigations are available, it determines that it should be the same as before. It would be more neat to await the investigation before the conclusion was reached. The lot service cannot function without a good accommodation service. The government proposes to put this service off for competition if it provides lower costs and does not compromise the quality and safety of the lots. Purchases of services from others are already on a smaller scale and there is no reason not to extend this scheme to other areas if there is a lower cost to the industry. This is not an ideological position, as the Workers' Party and the Centre suggest in their comments, but a practical position to create the best possible service for the users. Work on the Los Law has been an exciting and instructive work. With the changes that have been proposed, I am convinced that we will have a strengthened pilot service, increased use of the visa regime, improved organisation of the service and, not least, significantly lower costs to the industry. It will help to make shipping more competitive and an important element in moving more goods from road to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3482	The new bulk of the population has not only an explicit goal of moving more goods across from road to sea, but we are also concerned about finding ways to do it. The Right-wing Party Government has now put forward proposals for the modernisation of the pilot service. The proposal includes, inter alia: a reorganisation, where the pilot services will continue to be organised under the Coastal Works, but will now be placed directly below the head office. There will be a clearer distinction between administration and operation and, at the same time, we propose that the services of the lodgers be put out of competition. Loose accommodation is a service that is very suitable for outsourcing, because now we can get more local players to compete and get the opportunity to transport the losses from land to the ships that need to be unloaded. This does not need to be done by the pilot service itself, and it may be a loving contribution as an additive for all-coastal skyscrapers. It has been estimated that this proposal will provide a better and more efficient unloading service which will lower shipping costs and thus enhance the competitiveness of maritime transport. This is one of many measures that can help to facilitate the move of more goods from road to sea, which in turn will provide a solid environmental benefit. Then I have to say that I am a little stunned when I hear that the representative Rommetveit is so sceptical about this. Since the 1990s, the rescue company has had a framework agreement with the Swedish Coastal Agency for the provision of accommodation services. The lifeguards carry the pilot out to the ship, or pick up the pilot when he leaves a ship. In 2011, these missions had a value of between 9 and 10 million. kr, and the amount has increased afterwards, since several unloading stations are no longer day-old. Outside White Island, where I live, there is a disembarkation field. When larger boats go into Rogaland, they may need to be pushed by helicopters. Then it is private actors that are being used. In total, the Swedish Coastal Agency buys approximately 20 million accommodation services. kr. In Bodø, Arendal, Farsund, Andenes, Hammerfest and Nordkapp they all buy for about half a million dollars each. In Florø, it's 100 pst. competitive. In addition, the accommodation centre here was established only about five years ago, under the red-green government, and the private company Florø Skyssbåt ensures that the pilots get on board safely. So if the representative Rommetveit and the Workers' Party are so concerned about the competitive outsourcing of the housing service, why didn't they do anything about it while they put themselves in government, but rather against the increased scope? Another measure that will be useful for moving goods from wheel to keel is a new and simpler visa regime, inter alia. ranked according to the size of ships, which increase the possibilities for uninvited sailing. This will lead to a reduction in the cost of the industry. The current system is perceived as complex and not flexible, but the new scheme will result in the division of evidence into different classes based on an assessment of the level of risk represented by different groups of vessels. The scheme will make it easier to obtain evidence of fairways for ships with the lowest risk, as well as the possibility to obtain evidence of fairgrounds for navigators with specific experience and competence. This will also reduce industry costs. In the Progress Party, we have always been concerned that if maritime transport is to be competitive with inland freight, the level of charges must be reduced. At Stortingen there is a unanimous objective that more goods should be transported on the keel instead of on wheels, and that State can contribute to is to make seas more competitive by not having additional costs. This applies both within the pilot service and in the context of port charges. Short sea shipping is a more climate-friendly transport, and for each freight wagon that will be moved to the sea, road safety on Norwegian roads will improve – i.e. a win-win situation. In order to meet this objective, it will be important in the future to have top modern equipment to ensure that the sea route is a safe alternative and that safety and preparedness for marine discharges and accidents are ensured. There are many near-sea accidents that the traffic centres in Norway are averting, and we who are used to marine life know that it is in bad weather time is critical. It's not so dangerous to get engine stops on the mirrored ocean one summer day, but if something happens to an oil tank on a stormy day along the coast, having equipment that can get better images faster can be the little extra needed to avert a disaster. Last week, I received the honor of opening the new surveillance equipment at the White Sea traffic centre, which has now spent tens of millions of millions investing in new radar, which will provide better images faster, which will in particular result in traffic management under poor weather conditions. I want to take the opportunity to thank those who work in the Losing Service, the Coast Guard and the Traffic Centres, and say that they are doing an incredibly good job that they can be proud of, because in Norway we have, despite a very high level of activity, a small number of basic shocks and a small number of collision accidents. When it comes to moving the disembarkation field in Oslofjorden from Great Fäder to Baskød, we in the Advance Party are concerned that such an investigation should be carried out quickly. This is a question that has been discussed several times, and a decision should now be made quickly, so that we can get it over with and get on with. In this context, I would like to point out that I am asking that the investigation specifically address the safety aspect of a possible move. Then I think first of all about how the physical boarding will take place, considering the weather and wind conditions and not least that the risk associated with crossing traffic is minimised. Furthermore, the consideration of national parks should be central. Maybe it'll be best for national parks that boarding actually happens further away. In order to move boarding areas, safety and preparedness must be ensured, while at the same time providing a clear economic benefit to short sea shipping in the form of reduced unloading charges. Regarding this, I would encourage the Council of State to involve Stortinget in the further process in this matter. I hope that in his post he can clarify a little more how he sees the further course of action, both in this case and in the case of a possible co-location of the maritime traffic centres. Finally, I would like to remind you that the government has announced that there will also be a national port strategy. I would like to point out that this must be seen in the context of the need for a more targeted, efficient and modernised unloading service. If we are to succeed in getting an increased share of maritime transport, it is also essential that we see the link between road, port and fairway, and I therefore strongly encourage the Council of State that, in future priorities of road projects, he sees it natural to facilitate good access to the main ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3520	The overall objective of the unloading scheme is to reduce the likelihood of ship accidents along the Norwegian coast. It is therefore useful to note that the number of ground and collision accidents along the Norwegian coast is low compared to the level of activity. The coastal works' statistics on accidents involving unloading, certificate of fairway and dispensation show a decrease in the number of accidents in recent years. By the Christian People's Party, it is important to have the purpose clearly in mind when a person embarks on reorganization. In our opinion, there will be a wrong focus if the reorganisation of this service is primarily to have a saving potential for the eye. The main focus must be safety at sea through the preservation of life and health, the environment and otherwise the material values that are at stake when we talk about reorganising this activity. The Ministry itself points to the division of responsibilities currently applicable to the prevention of maritime safety between several departments and departments. Liability for safety at sea is perceived to be fragmented. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the ministry now wants to see all the preventive maritime safety measures in the context, across the responsibilities of various departments. There can certainly be opportunities here to deal with maritime safety in a more coordinated and appropriate way as well as a potential for efficiency improvement in better coordination. With regard to the geographical scope of the unemployment obligation, an overall committee concludes that unemployment obligations within the baseline are mainly maintained. However, the Christian People's Party does not agree that the disembarkation field in the Oslo soil is being moved to the Baskøj area. We have noted the strong motivations of several hearings to move it into the district of Baskøll, as proposed by the ministry. Safety-related important hearing bodies are weakened by the move in this highly vulnerable area. The consideration of the environment and people is best cared for, we believe, by not moving it from where it is today. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are otherwise satisfied with the flexibility of the fairway system. This contributes to a reduction in the cost of maritime transport. We are committed to achieving measures that can reduce costs – that is good. In this respect, we also welcome the announced reduction of the unloading charges in the future budget – a contribution together with other instruments to be able to transfer more goods from country to sea. The Christian People's Party fully supports the steps taken by the government to separate the operational part of the unloading service from the rest of the service by adding it to its own unit directly under the head office of the Coastal Works. Today’s model prevents the service from being efficient enough and has created long and sometimes unclear decision-making lines. There is an advantage in creating a greater distance between management and operational operations, and the roles are thus also more clearly defined. However, we will be concerned that this must not mean that all the loosing activity is collected in one place. We fear a centralization trend that is also not useful for the peculiarity of the activity. It should be a central task to seek to maintain a professional and competence environment along our entire coast. In the case of pilotage, it must be seen in conjunction with the organisation of the operational pilotage service. This must not lead to the pooling of pilots into one office, but to the finding of the most efficient and functional organisation according to the needs of the users. The utility service is very important for a good and efficient service. From the Christian People's Party we are positive to the announced competitive outsourcing of the accommodation service. However, it is important to impose high requirements on the design and capacity of pilots and on the competence of pilots. Nor must the requirement for the most reasonable operation be at the expense of life and health. In the current assessment concerning the organisation of maritime traffic centres, it is important that different alternatives can be identified. We want to await the investigation, but we want to show that future reorganization must take care of security and preparedness in the best possible way. Therefore, it is not certain that the outcome of this assessment should be that all seven today are merged into one. I refer you to the rapporteur's excellent review.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3548	The centre party wishes to strengthen maritime transport and make it more competitive in relation to other transport sources, in particular road traffic. The rapporteur has outlined the background to the Losing Committee and also the short sea shipping strategy and the strengthening of ports and fairways, for which we have been eager ambassadors. Now we're taking a step further when we're going to make decisions in line with what the Los Angeles Committee has proposed. Simplification and making the use of maritime transport more efficient are important. Here are a number of measures, I believe, that contribute to it. The evidence of trade is one of them, which I think will be very important. In addition, the Ministry and Government, for which the Committee is really in agreement, have also announced a reduction in charges to make maritime transport more competitive. It is important to ensure maritime safety and presence. It is important that not all pilot activity be grouped together in one place, but that the professional and competence environment be ensured across the coast. There are some natural reasons why the environments are where they are. It is important that it is taken care of in the future too, not least in order to ensure an overall presence of the kind of competence we are talking about. I'm just going to go into a few elements, because I think the case rapporteur has well explained where the committee really stands, and it stands to a large extent. The first thing I want to comment on is the unloading field on Baskød. The centre batch has not set it up in this setting. We want to wait for the investigation that has been notified before we conclude. As far as maritime traffic centres are concerned, like what I said in my post a little earlier, we have said that we don't want to look at a solution where you end up with one central, but we want to keep them where they are, and it's not least with the background that you want both presence and security along the coast. As regards the privatisation of the accommodation service, attempts were made by the representative Steffensen to believe that we were consistently opposed. That's not right. What has been said in the comments of the Central Party and the Labour Party is that where it is based on professional and cost criteria, it makes sense to do so, in line with what has been done in the past, but is the purely ideological reason for wanting to privatize, we express scepticism. There is a significant difference in what I am asking for representatives to notice. Otherwise, I think it is positive that we get more focus on maritime transport in the future. I want us to see this in the context of both what has been done in the past and what has been announced in connection with a port strategy where you can link a little stronger leads – as the representative Steffensen was inside – to the road link, and where it is also natural to look at the rail link, so that you get a more seamless transfer of goods from the different transport sources. Of course, it's different around the country, there's different conditions in the ports, but it's important that we think about how the freight transfer can happen as naturally as possible. Otherwise, I refer to the comments made by the Central Party in the position of the case, and I also support what the rapporteur has explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3569	The changes we are making today are important. I would therefore like to commend the government for having followed up the loco selection in a good way and delivered a very good message and law that allows us to get more goods over from road to sea. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the thorough work he has done on this. This is important and necessary both for road safety and for climate. Today's grips help to simplify and improve the conditions for those who want to carry their goods by sea. At the same time, we must have the natural environment in mind. That's why the Left does not want to move the boarding field in Oslofjorden from Fäder to Baskød. It is important for us to take care of the coastal environment in the Outer Oslofjord. Here we have two national parks, Väder and Outer Whales, the only two at sea, and it's in this part of the fjord there have been major oil spills. Therefore, as a good environmental party, like the Christian People's Party, we will be the leader and keep the loosing throughout the fjord. This is also in line with what KS Buskerud, KS Vestfold and KS Telemark have meant, and it is also consistent with, among others. Bellona said. I hear that the Center Party might also be able to mean the same thing. However, when we do not realize that this is all being resolved now, we hope that the investigations to be carried out will take particular account of the national parks and the vulnerable coastal environment along the Oslo coast. And I ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to this, so that it is properly and properly maintained. The overall objective must continue to be to reduce the likelihood of shipwrecks along the coast, and we must avoid discharges and accidents to the detriment of humans and the environment. I hope that the investigation will not be delayed, and that the Council of State in its statement will be able to assure us that he will proceed quickly with this work. I'm going to be short; we've had a long day, and we're going to continue with several things. Once this disagreement has been raised, I will conclude where I began: the left rejoices that the Storting today makes it easier and cheaper to carry goods by sea. It's important work. What we're doing today is a good step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3582	It's very nice to be able to take this discussion in Stortinget, because it's a very collective committee and a very collective magnificence that stands behind this setting. The Losing Committee did a very good job investigating it. Very many of their proposals were well investigated and had a large and wide majority behind them. Thus, it was also easier for the government to turn it into a policy and present it to the Stortinget. It is also very good to see that the Storting gathers so much behind the suggestions that come. There are major transport challenges in this nation that we have to solve. We are engaged in major reforms both on the road, on rail and on shipping. On shipping, we work with a national port strategy to reduce costs and to raise efficiency. We are looking at the charging system, and in this context the unloading system is also very important, because the unloading system must ensure both good performance and operation at ports and along the coast, and it must ensure safety. At the same time, it is important that we try to reduce the cost of this, not least if the aim is to get more goods by sea. Because if it becomes too expensive every time you land and set off cargo and goods, shipping will lose in relation to special truck transport. We've done more grips on what we've added. The new Los Law will provide a more efficient organisation of the area of unloading. We launch the accommodation service, and we establish a new differentiation of the fairway certificate. All of this will help at least ensure the level of safety we have today, but also make it more flexible for the various shipping companies and ships to cut costs. The Los Law of 1989 appears a bit modern in today's light. There have been many changes both within shipping itself, in technology use and access to information and in general knowledge of safety and navigation. The new law is up-to-date, and it is a special focus on being user-friendly and modern. It shall continue to contribute to reducing the risk of adverse events, and only to underline what the representative of the Christian People's Party addressed: this is about avoiding damage to life and health, to the environment and to material values. In general, we are continuing the scope of the obligation to leave, but we are increasing the possibility of being able to sail without leaving with a new, differentiated visa regime. There will be a greater emphasis on the risk level of the different ships instead of having a very general rule. This means that on ships with a low risk, a person will be able to use evidence of fairway very often, while one will be increasingly more stringent with ever smaller ships having a particularly dangerous load, either for safety or for environmental reasons. In addition, a more stringent requirement will apply where passengers are carried on board. This liberalisation will also be seen with regard to the use of unloaded cargo in the port areas: ships with a low risk will be able to move more easily into the port basin without the use of unloaded cargo, but if there is a dangerous cargo on board, it will still be very strict on this. I think that's important. So there's some basic questions about this topic, and we're moving them from the regulatory level to the law level. I also think the Storting will appreciate that. Then we're going to update the investigation on the consequences for the Oslo Earth unloading field, i.e., at Baskød, to assess whether it can be moved further inwards. There have been several speakers involved. We haven't concluded on this question, but if we want to figure it out, it's to look at the possibility. Then it's natural that we come back to Stortinget if we make changes to this. The reorganisation of the pilot service itself will have a new structure from 1 January 2015. It appears today to be a complex organisational structure with unclear distinctions between operational and administrative tasks. We're going to add the operator's responsibility to the Coast Guard's head office as a separate unit, and administrative tasks are added to another department. It is a good thing that the Committee is essentially committed to this. Let me stress that this does not mean that we are moving all the tasks to the office in Ålesund. There will still be a great need for coastal professional skills. So this isn't a centralization into a geographical unit, it's about control units. Then we launch the spending service to improve resource use and efficiency. We continue state operations where the tendering procedure shows that there is nothing to do for the private. So there's nothing ideological about this, but it's a belief that private often can do it at least as well as the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3608	The case we have to deal with today is basically about two things – how we can best strengthen maritime safety and what action is needed to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. The Lostenesta is currently fully user-funded, and the Committee also expresses in joint comments that we are very positive that ‘the government in the future budget will consider reducing the level of fees and, preferably, the disbursement charge’. How does the Council of State feel that this can be done? Is the objective of state full funding? And can it be that we can see an easy way in these fees already in the 2015 budget proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3618	I am very happy when the Workers' Party is talking about tax relief. It warms my heart. We are going to work to reduce the level of the fee, especially with regard to the unemployment insurance fee, because it is something that everyone has to pay today, regardless of whether a user is using the unloading service or not. It is therefore with and particularly weakens the competitiveness of short sea shipping, where a person does not at all need to be unloaded, but manages with a fairway certificate. So in order to get a fairer distribution of costs here, it would be natural that one looks at whether one pays more for the loser one actually uses, and that smaller ships that don't need it, get away from it. This is going to be a priority that you have to do in Stortinget. With various toll debates fresh in memory, where the government is criticized for suggesting that we reduce the tax level without including the Stortinget, I expect the Workers' Party to think it is good that we address this matter in the context of the treatment of the State budget, together with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3625	Now we're not going, now we're at sea. When it comes to the Labour Party and fees at sea, we now, especially in the last period, have had a very good tradition of removing a lot of taxes there. But another question is: if the housing services are now to be put out of competition, can the Council of State promise that this will be done in accordance with the rules on transfer of property and that they will be properly administered?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3632	Yes, of course, when we're launching competition, we're going to do it in a real way. Our goal in postponing competition is not to take the salary or the pension from people, but to obtain the synergies of dynamics in the way a performer performs the service, so that one saves money by providing more services with the same people. That's our approach. Then it is very pleasant when the Workers' Party is in favour of tax relief in terms of shipping. As far as I remember, the tax relief and tax relief presented by the Workers' Party in the government was approx. Between 20 and 30 million. kr. That's the same thing as the assumed efficiencies of what we're doing here. Then comes the tax reliefs that the Right Party government will promote, as well. This suggests that shipping is meeting better times. But I'm very happy that we're all fighting the same thing here, and that we're essentially going in the same direction. And then investigations in a couple of areas here will come back to the Stortinget – that's also true of the maritime traffic centres – to make a final decision here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3641	If we are going to continue to be okay with each other, I have to say that I think it is good that the Council of State is so ready that the matter of unloading fields comes back to Stortinget. It was nice to explain it, because we haven't decided on it yet. So a little bit until the last time the Council of State was talking about: what final solution does the Council of State see itself as most topical when it comes to the five maritime traffic centres? Could it be that in a few years' time, the representative Roy Steffensen would like to join in and put down the expensive, beautiful equipment on White Island?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3648	I haven't concluded in any way. When we want an investigation, it's because we need to know more. If we already had the answers, we would have presented them to the Stortinget as well. But what's important here is not to look at how to save a penny here and a penny there, if it goes at the expense of security. We know that many of these traffic centres have an important role locally. But it may – and that is what we need to look at – that new technology, new communication opportunities, where as a nation we are also a driving force, together with the IMO, where Norway is really the leader through the e-navigation project, can provide us with new technological opportunities that allow us to organize things a little differently. It doesn't necessarily mean that one has activity in fewer places, but that one likes to have a more specialised activity in the different places, because one has more exciting tasks that need to be solved, and needs a more specialised environment around.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3655	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3658	We in the Workers' Party are very pleased that the government has continued our efforts to get more goods across at sea. It is important for the climate, it is important to be able to achieve profitability in the industry also in the future, and it is important to renew the fleet, to bet on maritime safety and, in particular, to predictability of the industry and those who sit and assess different logistics solutions. Our government added 3 billion. kr extra in the short sea shipping strategy and in the NTP. It was an important and proper bet, as we see it. However, it was also important to provide a near-ship strategy and, not least, to reduce the Losing Committee. I am of the opinion that we have a cross-political agreement that we have to get more goods over at sea. This has long been a coastal issue — yes, certainly for hundreds, perhaps for thousands of years. But that doesn't mean that it's done talking for it. That means it's important for the coast, and it's important to get hold of it. Two years ago, in the Workers' Party, we had a series of encounters up the coast with this theme of getting more goods across the sea. For us, it was important to get dialogue and input from all the actors in the industry. The pursuit of the good solutions made me quickly realize that there were a number of measures, that this had to come together to get the effect we actually wanted to get out of it, and that this is not just a job for politicians to solve, but that it has to be solved together with the industry and has to be solved at the same time. A number of instruments need to be discussed and adapted to the situation. It came, among other things: include measures such as eco-bonus, top finance, guarantee schemes, wreckage arrangements, etc. On the environment, shore-side electricity and increased use of LNG, distribution and storage were raised as an important topic. Ports and traffic controllers are definitely part of the discussion that has been and that must be landed gradually. Here are several different categories of ports to be clarified, and different targets to be solved, not least in terms of national focal points, where sea, road and track – which was also mentioned here earlier – must be far ahead of us in finding the most forward-looking, best solutions. So a little bit for the tax discussion. That, of course, was also the theme of our meetings. The primary aim was to reduce the number of charges. But it's also a little interesting, what's being lifted up here, that today all the ships that are subject to the unloading obligation pay, the disembarkation fee, whether it's used or not. If this is true in the future, it could perhaps be the subject of future budgetary proceedings. There is no doubt that maritime safety is incredibly important to all of us. Clearing up the construction of the City Ship Tunnel was important for us, and – not least – the reduced work and results of the Losing Committee. The industry has complained about parts of the unloading service and, in particular, expressed a wish for extended opportunities for the fairway. A number of recordings came, and I think many people also felt that different interpretations of the traffic station were demanding. Many would also separate the Pilots from the Coastal Works, and the desire to reduce user funding was, of course, the topic. It was supposed to be missing. In this case, it is good that a number of measures have been agreed. With regard to the reorganisation, I would like to make it clear that this must be done in accordance with the rules on business transfer and that the rights of employees must be properly exercised. When the unloading service is now to become even more efficient to meet the challenges of the future in shipping, this shall be managed from the head office of Ålesund, where it is built up in good and proper competence. Finally, I would like to encourage the government to come up with several issues that contribute to getting more goods on the keel. Of course, we in the opposition will also help make the necessary proposals to achieve the goal, but it's important to follow up, because there's not just one thing that solves this. It's a puzzle game with at least 1,000 pieces to be laid, and I think that as politicians we have to be able to do cross-political. I also think it's important that the dialogue with the industry is there all the time to solve this. I wish the Council of State good luck, and I also wish the whole Stortinget good luck with the job. It's a demanding job, but it's important to get done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3689	The overall objective of the Losing Act is to reduce the likelihood of adverse events, in particular base bumps and collisions. These are mainly events that result in acute pollution, i.e. the release of oil, other oil products or other types of pollutants that can have significant environmental consequences. The locomotive system is 100 pst. user-funded and has a budget of 700 million in 2014. kr. The government's proposal provides for a saving of approx. Between 25 and 30 million. krones. One of the main objectives of the change in the law of unloading is to get more goods from road to keel. The aim is therefore to lower the cost of boating so that you can get more on the keel. As a result, the unloading charge should be reduced and, as many people have been involved in today, may be completely eliminated – as a means of achieving the objective of transferring goods from road to sea. Then I have to arrest the Minister for the reduction of millions. It's not like it's just cut 20-30 million. kr, it's cut approx. Ninety million. kr. The Labour Party agrees that good action is needed to increase competition at sea. That is why I agree that we need to make the unloading system more efficient, so that we can get this at a lower price. However, it is essential not to forget the overall objective of security, which has also been addressed by many people here today. That is why we believe in the Workers' Party that the consequences must be put on the table before deciding whether to open a new unloading table at Baskøw in Oslofjorden. With regard to the organisation of the pilot service, both the Labour Party and a majority of the Committee are clear that we are opposed to all the loosing activity being grouped in one place, and are pleased that the Minister on the way also confirms this point of view. But you have to get a task and function distribution that is as appropriate to the activity as possible. The majority also emphasises that this should not mean that all administrative tasks are grouped together in one place, but that the professional and competence environments can be maintained throughout the coast. In the case of pilotage, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency has been asked to assess the future organisation as part of the process of reorganising the pilotage service. The majority of the Committee agrees with this, but would stress that this does not mean that pilotage should be merged into one office, as proposed by the Losing Committee, but that it should be found to be as efficient and functional as possible. This is important, not least for the sites that could be affected. I know best about Lødningen in Nordland, one of the oldest places in the country. The location at the main road through Teldsundet and the entrance to Ofotfjorden has made Lødingen a strategic centre of gravity for the unloading activity both in the region and in northern Norway. The unloading station has strengthened its position as one of the country's most important and is today the largest unloading station in North Norway. A strong professional environment has been built both on the unloading side and on the unloading department. The dispersal of Lødingen covers the route from Rørvik to Kirkenes. Here we talk about a large area, and it goes without saying that proximity is an important security issue. I think we should emphasise the importance of having such jobs in the districts and not put ourselves on a centralisation line, as it may look like the Coastal Agency wants. In terms of terms and conditions, there are expectations that the loading station will have to be continued and, if necessary, given a strengthened position within the new structure. With regard to the accommodation service, we record that the government has decided that it will be put out to competition. It is therefore important to base this on professional and cost criteria and not to do so for purely ideological reasons in the event of a competitive outsourcing of the accommodation service. The Labour Party is sceptical about the outsourcing and will demonstrate that this service has an important preparedness role in several coastal locations. We are also concerned that any reorganisation takes place within the rules of business transfer and that the rights of employees are properly respected. I therefore think it is a little strange that the representative of the Progress Party, Steffensen, tried to make it clear that they are doing something to get more goods from road to sea. I would like to remind the Progress Party that it was the red-greens that reduced the lot selection. I think it's an unnecessary pipe from the Progress Party. I had expected some dessert, also from the Advancement Party, in this case. As regards the assessment of the future organisation of maritime traffic centres, the Workers’ Party, as heard from the representative of Romemetveit, opposes the co-location of the current five maritime traffic centres. These centres are established in areas where traffic presents a specific risk to safety and the environment. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State to follow up on the majority remarks in the process ahead and ensure that the Coastal Agency bases these leaderships on the Stortinget when deciding on the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3725	The coast works are responsible for Norway's pilot services. The main objective of pilotage services is to contribute to the safe movement of the sea and to the protection of the environment by providing the ship's crew with the necessary maritime know-how. The service is operational and available 24 hours a day, throughout the year. This is described in the ‘Norwegian Los’ monument, which is mandatory to ensure the entire waters of Norway by laying on board all ships. When we talk about the Norwegian pilot service, we're not talking about any service. We are talking about the guarantee of society and the community that human lives will not be lost at sea, and to prevent environmental disasters in the Norwegian archipelago. If you talk to the loser, you'll hear stories about how human lives haven't been lost, and how environmental disasters have been averted – precisely because you had a loosing on board to prevent the disaster. We often talk about prevention being much better than repair, and the unloading service is just what we have to have the prevention of disasters for society. When we deal with the new Los Law today, it is very good to say about the review that has been done. It's a professional and thorough review, and I would say that most of the laws from time to time have benefited from being reviewed and smoked up a little after they've changed many, many small steps up through the years. I thought I would draw out some of the things I think are positive in the review made by the law and in the reporting part of the proposition that has been submitted. I think it is positive that the joint and several liability that now lies between the agent and the shipping company is as clearly codified as that. I think it is positive that the government warns to follow up the government statement, and that they will come back to the budget that is coming, to see if they will reduce the unloading charge. This could be a single contribution on the road to reduce costs and thus bring more transport onto the keel. I also think it makes sense to review that facilitator system, i.e. to put it in place in new forms. It is a way of recognising more fully the competence of crews on board Norwegian vessels. I think that's a good and proper way to go. At the same time, I would ask the Council of State to be aware of and to be aware that any scheme that is internal to shipping companies and that is designed to enable people to certify their own ratings themselves, it has the risk that unprofessional actors, just to save money, will be able to recognise people's skills even if they don't exist – such as we've been in several times when, for example, we've been discussing cabotage here in this room. Therefore, I would ask the Council of State to be critical and conscious when he looks at how the scheme should be concretely designed. I am also critical of the new field that is planned, which means that you will actually reduce the unloading service through Oslofjorden. There I agree with those parts of the government's supporting parties that are most critical of that conversion. I also refer to the opinions and hearing opinions that have come from surrounding states. Then I will finally say something about the accommodation service. I and SV are against the conversion of the accommodation service that is now taking place. One, it's the employees. The Labour Party drew attention to the need for preparedness, which is also taken care of by the people there. But I would say that there is evidence of a lack of self-confidence on the part of the government parties when they believe that the public is unable to organise an effective unloading service. I also think of it as an ideological transformation, and when you look at the parties that have ended up on this, the classic ideological arguments I see are used in the arguments that lie there. I want to ask the State Council – we are not in the committee, so we have not had the opportunity to write it in the comments – to make sure that when some years have passed, you have to review that conversion to see if it has actually saved a few dollars. [[President clubs]] We all remember Mesta [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3751	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3755	When I take the word again, it is basically to continue where the representative Eidsvoll Holmås left off, for I think it is in many respects wrong to put similarities between competitive outsourcing and privatisation. The reason why I think this is wrong is that the outsourcing for me is about using the opportunities available in a market where there are several providers, more who can offer a service, for the benefit of society as a whole. We do that in a large way in the transport sector. There had not been many roads built in Norway without our being exposed to competition and using the opportunities in the market. That's why I think the whole discussion about putting out competition or not putting out competition – the idea of ideological thinking – is a little weird. What is at stake is to give the Coastal Agency the opportunity to use the actors present in the market to actually provide users with the best possible service at the lowest price possible. We also have to remember that when we do this, we do it by actually forwarding the bill to the shipping companies, to the short sea shipping, to the overall shipping. And if we as the responsible authority don't use the possibilities that exist, to actually make this service as good and reasonable as possible, we also make shipping more expensive, and we can't continue to do that in the long run. The question that remains for me is whether perhaps scepticism is more ideologically based than the desire to actually use outsourcing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3764	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3767	It was actually the first post to the Helge Place that got me to take the word now, but what he said now at the end, also fits very well. The place said in its first post that he didn't share the turbulence to the plural that everything should gather one place. I have to say that I have great faith in the Coastal Works, and that they are able to carry out this reorganization in a good way themselves. I've traveled a lot around and met several sections of them added to the Coastal Works, and it seems they're very geary. Now they really want to slow down and wait for us to take a decision. They were terrified that this would last for the summer. But then we got saga, and we've been treating her. I mean, these plural comments don't need the bottoms of trouble. So I'd like to calm down the representative place. Rather, it should be seen as positive advice and guidance from the bulk of the important reorganization work that the entire organization of the Coastal Agency is currently going through. I hope that those who are behind my back – some of them right now – will also remember what is clear advice from the majority of the population when it comes to what is the underlying principle of reorganizing this part of the activity to the Coast, which is so important to the whole coast. So a little bit to Roy Steffensen, who also says I shouldn't worry. It applies to the provision of services and to the launching of competition there. What I'm pointing at, and as others have also pointed out, is that this housing service also has a role to play in terms of preparedness and entering the market, one must also make sure that those who are there can also play that role. We are also concerned — not necessarily out of concern — that it should be based on professional and cost criteria. One thing I've also been thinking about is that if you want to light up a single discharge area and a single discharge boat, you have a little problem with spare material. It's kind of like before, when we had the ferry company HSD, which had its concession area. Then, of course, they also had back-up ferries, spare materials and crews. But now, when they're split up and there's four-five different ferry crews and there was an axle or they went on a pier or something like that, you have to wait for hours before a new boat arrives. So one must be busy with things like that. Maybe you need to look bigger on it and take regions if you're going to go to the market with this, and not just a launch boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3784	I note that the Workers' Party is becoming more and more positive to both charging and competitive outsourcing it further into the debate we are coming, so it is tempting to keep the debate going until midnight to see how far they will go. Extra amusingly, I have to say that it is with the disembarkation fee, which the Workers' Party had eight years to do with, but which they now expect the Progress Party to do something about. Otherwise, I register that the representative Rommetveit and the representative Juvik are concerned that there are preparedness arguments that must be important here. I note that it was obviously not important in Florø, where there was 100 pst. competitive. Juvik otherwise stated that we should give credit to the Workers' Party for the fact that this matter is being dealt with today. That is quite right, because I would remind you that when they proposed their own policy, when they proposed a discharge regulation in 2011, it created so many negative reactions that the sample had to be reduced. Otherwise, I feel that I have been challenged by Rommetveit regarding the five maritime traffic centres, and I have to say that I am a little surprised at the Workers' Party's bona fide position on this matter. I do not understand why they are so strongly opposed to initiating an investigation and thus a state report that shows whether we have the best and most optimal organization today. If an investigation can show that, with a reorganization to a different number, we are able to ensure that safety and preparedness for marine emissions and accidents are maintained, while at the same time ensuring that the charging burden on short sea shipping is reduced, would it not be natural to undertake such a reorganization to further strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian short sea shipping against the truck on the Norwegian road network? I understand that there are many different opinions and arguments for and against possible co-location, but it should not mean that we should be relieved of our responsibility to see if we are using society's resources in the best possible way. An investigation might well show that today's organisation should not be changed, and if it shows that a co-location of one or more centres is reasonable, we'd rather take a round of arguments for and against that. I had expected that a party like the Workers' Party, which likes to present itself as an open, responsible and manageable party, would also be responsible for looking for better solutions, that it would be open to look at whether today's organization is the best, and that it would be interested in finding even more measures that could help to get more freight from wheels to keel.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3799	As a sea captain and stateless man, it has been a pleasure to follow the debate. The locomotive system includes the unloading service and the discharge system and the placarding system and, as has been said, the aim is to reduce the likelihood of ship accidents along the Norwegian coast. The proposition is mainly based on the 2013 NOU: 8, and it came, as it was said, as a result of the industry’s desire for reduced fees, as well as a new legal regulation and a fairway card scheme introduced in 2011. A requirement to separate management and operational operations has also had a high focus from the outside world. Reduced charges are important in order to achieve the goal of more goods on the keel, and as one who has worked at the sea all his life, I also have high on my agenda that as the shipping nation Norway must be able to transport larger quantities at sea. However, the Transport Economic Institute points out that a reduction in port charges is likely to be the most effective measure, but all tax reductions will contribute in the right direction. That is why I am pleased that the government’s objective – and signals – of possible reductions in this way will make a greater contribution to getting more over the cold. When the large community gives the shipping industry the confidence that a relaxation in the qualification system will be, it is hoped that accident statistics will not increase significantly. For the essential point here is: what will be the consequences for the coast? We have all seen, not long ago, results on TV about boats that walked in the mountain wall, where blueberry bellows and bushes sprayed. This – hopefully – will not be the result. The main reason for boats going on land, if you look at the statistics, is that people are sleeping on guard. In this way, the pilot has contributed to the arrival of a rested person on board and brought that ship safely into port. We hope that, when an assessment system is put in place to qualify the shipping companies themselves, you will be able to ensure that you have sufficient crew on board, which means that you do not raise the statistics on accidents. It is not the case that the pilot is engaged in guarding his own profession. No, we're very concerned about being effective, we're serving the shipping industry and we want to do the best we can. That's why we're also concerned that what now came through the NOU was reasonable. We have to tolerate being reviewed from A to Å, and it is therefore important to look at the organisation that is now being signaled. It's a necessity that we become as effective as possible. Since I was born and raised in Lødingen, most people would have thought that I would say that we have to protect the station in Lødingen. No, I actually think that those who make the final decision, after the review to be made, will see the necessity that this station might also exist in the future. I hope that this debate has helped to put the spotlight on maritime transport. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3818	The President is once again asking that the representatives deal with speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3821	I have followed this debate, and as a Vestfold representative, I am naturally – like everyone else in the room – concerned with safety and safety at sea. There is no doubt that simplifying and modernising to move more goods from road to sea is good, but then it is also important to focus on adding up to safe and safe maritime traffic, which was also the case with Steffensen. I notice that the loosing selection also suggests moving the unloading field from the Great Fäder to Baskød. I don't doubt the competence of the selection, but I want to make it clear that here we are talking about a vulnerable and important area, which contains the National Parks of Fäder and Outer Whaler. I therefore welcome an investigation that includes the safety aspect in these vulnerable areas. In particular, it must be necessary to map the baseline conditions and the sea flows and space with regard to the ship traffic at Baskød – before finalisation. I am pleased that the Council of State here today answers that he will come back to Stortinget with an investigation that addresses these issues, and then I trust that this will be handled in a proper and thorough manner that ensures safety. If I understood correctly, he will come back to the Storting, so that this will be a new debate where a thorough review is given before it is finally concluded, and then I am very pleased, precisely because of the security of these vulnerable areas. There are two national parks, and there have been accidents in the past. So after this debate, I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3832	I would like to commend the last two representatives of the Progress Party who had posts. I think that was a good point – both the concern about safety and the environment inwards the Oslo Earth and the considerable scepticism that Morten Stordalen shows. I notice that the message says that you should be on a ‘responsible level’, and there are many ways to interpret ‘responsible’. I want to say that what is our most populous area, which houses several national parks on the road inwards, is not just to have a level that is so far above the limit of what is proper, but it must be good, so that the people of the area can feel safe that you have a good job of unloading. That's why we share the scepticism that has been divided, not only from the last recorded representative of the Progress Party, but also from the Christian People's Party, the Left and more. The second thing I wanted to comment on was Dagfinn Henrik Olsen's description of the dilemma that arises in the moment you entrust trust to others. We have seen very clearly that in several industries, where you have considerable responsibility for self-control and self-systems – at the latest in the construction industry, where the whole regulation has gone in that direction – there is both a significant increase in crime and there is a self-approval of the things that are going to happen that do not at all satisfy the level that we have set as a condition for things to be taken care of. So I repeat and I'm glad that even the representatives of the Progress Party, that is from the Council of State, share the view that there is a risk of conversion, so you have to be aware that you don't get any more accidents in the time to come. Finally, I would like to say a few words to Helge Orten, who says it's not about any ideological change, but that it's just about giving the opportunity to the Coastal Works, and that it's about saving money. Well, if you're not ideological when you take that position, I would point out two simple things: one is that that possibility already has the Coastal Works today. As far as I'm concerned, it's about 90 pst. performed by the accommodation service, that it is performed internally by its own people, by its own crew and by its own ships, while 10 pst. performed by others who are hired to do the job, where the Coastal Works consider it appropriate. Instead, when you choose to convert to an order and delivery model, where someone has to sit and order this service, you build up bureaucracy – without being anywhere near sure if you reduce costs. I therefore believe that the experience gained from the last time the right-hand side carried out the type of experiments, which was Mesta – when they carried out the changes to Mesta that were applauded from the right-hand side – led to an increase in road maintenance costs, and that is the opposite of cost savings – in other words, ideology.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3847	I was a little worried if perhaps the representative Steffensen had misunderstood a little, and we have to clarify that. The Ministry of Transport will carry out an evaluation of different options for the organisation of maritime traffic control centres. It's not like we're in the Labour Party against it. Of course, we have to have the right and the good solutions technologically and organisationally, but what we're saying is that we're now notifying that what's going on is merging these, that is putting them down, we won't. There's a bottom in that these aren't randomly placed. They are in such places where there is a great deal of maritime transport, and there is the transport of a lot of dangerous goods – Vardø, Fedje, Witsøj, Horten, Brevik. You have tough industry, and there's a lot of petrochemistry and dangerous goods going around there. Then we think that an important part of this security is also to have presence. You can't sit in the smoke or in the Nevada desert and control everything. An episode that has been told me – I believe he is true, at least several who have said it – was about the ship «Marthe», which was going straight into the stones of Fadje. They saw it in the binoculars at the central maritime traffic station in Fedje, made contact with the ship, and weighed those who slept, as was said here. They woke up in time to control the ship so it didn't go down. There's something about having some eyes there. I have not been to all the maritime traffic centres, but I have been to Horten and seen everything that travels by, both large passenger boats and boats with very strange goods. We are busy - not one for all parts should be avoided, so look at the organisation. The station doesn't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3860	As the Council of State that is present today tends to tell the Stortinget that the Workers' Party has been in government for eight years, I can confirm that we have done so. And when the question of unloading fields in the Outer Oslofjord has been raised earlier, we have refused to change it. It's done with just the rationale that Morten Stordalen now gave in a good way, really, although I might not be as calm as the Stordalen is. But now I understand that the Council of State has stated that the matter should at least come back to Stortinget, and that is something. Then we can have a real debate on all the arguments that have been included in the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Workers' Party and the Center Party have their own comment to come back to Stortinget, which has already been confirmed. It's probably the same with other fields, but in the field I know, natural qualities, vulnerability, and not least the transport that passes, which the representative Rommetvei now mentioned, mean that one must be careful to make changes. That's why it's good that the Council of State comes back. On my visit to the unloading station at Hålsser, where I have seen boarding etc. by oil tankers going to the Battletan, among other things, I have been told about the everyday life of the pilots, who have their own boats at their disposal in the Outer Oslofjord, at e.g. Tønsberg Tønne, where people from more urban struts can find out about going by in the boat in the summer, and who sometimes get problems. Then the casualty also works when it's going to move out and rescue people. My point, the Council of State, is – and there is no division of parties on this – that quite often, when we discuss major societal issues, we tend to look at that sector in isolation, at the main purpose, which we should of course look at, but that we might forget some of the positive societal side effects that the presence itself gives. I hope that it will be part of the further process, and that we can see the role of the pilot service together with the preparedness, along with the rescue service and in the overall community context, which is also an important role, even though the unloading service is of course primarily to be assessed for its purpose. I hope that this will be highlighted in the preparation of the matters to be submitted to the Stortinget, but it is also good to state that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss the facts and conclusions of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3873	It was the representative of Steffensen who made me speak in this debate, despite the fact that it is starting to be a long time, and there are several things left. The representative Steffensen points out that the Labour Party has now suddenly been engaged in cutting taxes. I dare remember that it was the government of Stoltenberg that put down the selection that is the basis for the matter that is now being debated. I had the great pleasure of receiving the sample report. The government of Stoltenberg cut the fees by nearly 125 million in the period 2010–2013. kr and announced that it was a work that we wanted to continue, because it was of course about bringing down the costs of shipping. I would like to remind you that for the first time in the history of the national transport plan, money has been put into the means to move more goods onto the keel. Three billion. kr was added to the national transport plan. The national transport plan, which is governed by the current government, is there, and the amounts are there, so I welcome the government to continue the important work. It was a bet that was applauded all along the coast – from north to south – and it was of course absolutely necessary to succeed in the important work of getting more goods on the keel. In order also to stimulate the increased use of short sea shipping, we introduced grants for investment funds to ports, in order to achieve port cooperation and freight concentration. I have otherwise recorded that in the case of a port in central Norway, the government has decided that it should be added to a sand roof in Melhus, as a former Right-Representative from the Trondelag called it. It's not exactly contributing to more goods on the keel. In the national transport plan for 2014-2023, it is set at 19.4 billion. kr for maritime transport. That's 55 pst. more than in the 2013 budget. At the brink of a long and interesting debate, which I have followed all along, this was an attempt to correct the history that was done earlier in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3891	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3905	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3912	The matter under consideration today proposes amendments to the Law of 21 June 2002 No. 45 on professional transport by motor vehicle and vessel — the Professional Transport Act. The proposal facilitates the implementation of the EEA rules on bus and coach passenger rights. The EU regulation on bus passenger rights sets minimum requirements for the rights of bus passengers. It imposes obligations on Member States, carriers, bus terminal operators, travel agents and tour operators. The aim is to improve passenger rights in the area of bus and coach transport with a specific aim of improving the rights of disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility. This Regulation shall ensure non-discrimination in relation to the transport conditions offered by carriers, in addition to providing assistance to disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility. This means, among other things: a carrier cannot refuse to board a passenger due to disability or reduced mobility. Furthermore, it means that disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility are entitled to make reservations and purchase tickets at no additional cost. Furthermore, the rights of passengers in the event of accidents and the rules on liability and obligations of carriers in the event of cancellation and delay. It also has general rules on the handling and enforcement of complaints. The hearing bodies in the case have expressed a great deal of positive opinion on the proposal to extend the rights of bus passengers. The Committee is committed to strengthening the rights of a bus passenger in general by making the EU Regulation part of Norwegian law. This applies in particular to the rights of disabled persons. A Joint Committee supports the intention of the Government to establish a national complaint mechanism for bus passengers by extending the existing Air and Rail Passengers Transport Complaint to include the handling of complaints by bus passengers. The Committee also welcomes the fact that the Transport Complaint is able to deal with cases by those travelling by tram, tram and urban railway. A common complaint subject should be considered for all public transport. The Committee points out that the Regulation imposes on terminal service providers and carriers measures to facilitate the travel of disabled customers or persons with reduced mobility and that the measures apply to journeys over 250 km. However, the Committee sees that the need for assistance services can indeed be equally great in short trips, and therefore we ask the Ministry to provide an overview of how this has been adequately addressed locally. The Committee also asks the Ministry to consider how to ensure, where appropriate, the future organisation and financing of assistance services at terminals, which also include internal public transport, where there are currently absolutely most travellers. From a minority in the Committee, it is noted that the working conditions of professional drivers should not be adversely affected by the new legislation and that the safety and working environment of drivers should be ensured in the context of the legislative changes and in the preparation of the regulations. There is reason to rejoice that through this amendment, we have not only secured passenger rights in general in a better way, but in particular improved the rights of disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility. This is a group that is protected by this amendment in a much better way than before. There have been too many people in our country who have been rejected or otherwise prevented from using public collective services because of their disability. I am therefore pleased that today we have taken a long step on that road that guarantees all groups of people the same rights as passengers. An overall committee recommends the proposed amendments to the Professional Transport Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3942	I will not spend much time because in the Committee we have a unanimous agreement on the proposal to include the regulation in the EEA Agreement. This concerns passengers travelling on the long bus journeys, but it is also pointed out that although local services such as buses and trams and other public transport are not included locally, we have our own laws that in many ways respect the rights granted by this regulation for the long journeys. There are separate laws – not in one – but they largely also affect local traffic. When the committee dealt with this matter, it was decided to see it in two ways. One was the EEA Regulation. It has to be implemented, and it has to be done as soon as possible. The second is that this issue also raises questions about what it really is like for local traffic, i.e. the many trips that take place every day in the big cities and the rest of the world. Most of it is initially a municipal responsibility, and it is important to get an overview of how these universal rights are respected in local traffic. On the basis of a collection of experience and a survey of the conditions of local public transport, the government must carry out an assessment and it is necessary to consider whether a similar scheme should also apply within county transport. I think very much is equal, but there's probably also some differences because there are different states, and they pay attention to different things. With those words, I support what is a unanimous setting. With regard to the additional comments made by the Workers' Party, there is more to the work that this may entail for the carriers, in the sense that there is also a responsibility for the bus driver to take care of this. Here it's about a cost that isn't so much in the setting, but it's an expense to introduce these assistants. It's nevertheless important to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3951	It is good that the Committee is so united in this matter. The proposed amendments to the Professional Transport Act facilitate the application of the EU regulation on bus passengers in Norwegian law, leading to the harmonisation of bus passengers’ rights in the EEA territory. There will be a strengthening of the rights of bus passengers and, in particular, it will improve the rights of disabled persons. I'm very happy about that. It is suggested that the existing Transport Complaint will be extended to deal with complaints from bus passengers, and the government also hopes that we will consider extending the Transport Complaint Document in such a way that it deals with complaints and violations of the transport conditions for passengers by tram, tram and urban railway. The committee is also in favour, and that is good. This Regulation imposes free assistance on carriers and terminal owners for disabled passengers or reduced mobility for routes with a route length of 250 km or more. The Committee – and therefore the Storting – agrees on most of this, and it makes it very easy to continue the job of putting it into practice. As regards the complaint subject for public transport, I would like to point out that the existing transport complaint system is that each sector is assigned its own subject within the Transport Complaint. There are representatives from both the consumer and the complainant transport industry. Today, the plane and the railway are represented, and then our approach is to expand with the other types of travel within that scheme. I can also mention that maritime transport is an EU legislation requiring a national complaint subject, and it is not unlikely that that appeal procedure will also be added to the Transport Complaint. I have noticed that the Committee asks the Ministry to provide an overview of the assistance services for disabled persons provided locally in an appropriate manner, and I have noticed that the Committee asks the Ministry to consider how, if necessary, it can ensure the organisation and financing of assistance services at terminals, which also include intra-state public transport. I will follow up on this, but because of the urgency of implementing the EEA legislation itself, it may take a little longer before the Committee asks for it to be implemented, and I ask for an understanding of it. I would also like to say that I have noticed that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre have commented that working conditions for professional drivers must not be adversely affected as a result of the new legislation, that the safety and working environment of drivers must be taken into account in the further legislative work, and I take that as a matter of course that we will and shall do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3969	I just have some short follow-up questions that I thought it was just as good to put in a line instead of in a separate post, and it's just plain: when does the council see this coming into place? Because just as the matter stands now, this is not incorporated as EU law yet, but it is good proposals, and everything is regulatory home for the government, so the government can get it in place when it wants to. That's my primary question. The second is that the government says that they should consider whether to include the T-railway, the tram and the tram, and I would like to have an answer as to whether that assessment has already been carried out, and whether the government not only thinks it is a good idea to consider, but whether it will also go for it, to ensure a common arrangement for everyone about rights and complaints. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3976	Thank you for the questions. We'll do this as soon as possible. Whether that means we're getting it already this summer, or whether it's early in the harvest, remains to be seen. I can try to figure that out, and then I'll pass it on to Stortinget in a suitable way. As for how wide we go out with regard to the T-track, trams, etc., and with the comment that has come from Stortinget in connection with the setting, it is natural that we also look at it and try to do it as quickly as possible. But it's the bus passenger rights we're obliged to do through the regulation, so it'll have priority, but we get to the other things at the same time, it's just as good to do it together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3983	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e3999	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Mr Aasrud, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4008	On behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. Prop. 64 L is a relatively complicated proposition, which we have had relatively short time on in the committee. Ensuring consumer rights has been and is important. Everyone has ever come into a situation where a product was not as it was manufactured in the marketing, or purchased a product that does not work, or entered into a contract that was not complied with. It is precisely for this reason that it is important that consumer rights are guaranteed by law. The purpose of the Directive is, inter alia, to: facilitating cross-border trade. Member States shall have uniform rules as regards certain aspects of contracts concluded between consumers and traders. It is also an objective to achieve a high level of consumer protection. This Directive covers all contracts for goods and services between consumers and traders, regardless of whether the contract is entered into in-store, distance or off-premises. The provisions of the Directive relating to distance and off-premises contracts are proposed in a new law on disclosure and withdrawal. The proposal for a completely new law is due to the need for extensive structural changes in the existing law. The legislative proposal does not reduce the high level of consumer protection resulting from existing legislation. The purpose of the new law is, like the law in force, to ensure that consumers receive relevant and necessary pre-contractual information in the case of distance and off-premises sales. Examples of sales outside regular business premises are street sales, trade fair sales and out-of-office door sales. Remote sales are defined as sales using remote communications, e.g. TV, Internet and telephone. The bill contains requirements for the contract and, as applicable, gives the consumer the right to withdraw from the contract within 14 days. The exceptions from the scope of the current law are proposed further. In accordance with that Directive, it is also proposed to exempt agreements covered by the Package Travel and Travel Guarantee Act – Package Travel Act – agreements on passenger services and certain agreements concluded with eco-providers. Agreements in these areas are well covered by other legislation. After amendments to the law, consumers are required to provide further information before the conclusion of a contract. The rules are simplified by common rules on the right of withdrawal for contracts concluded at distance and off-premises sales. There will also be common rules for goods and services. There will be stricter requirements for the trader, such as: may not charge the costs not declared before the conclusion of the contract. It is also proposed to increase the right to cancel the purchase of goods, even if it cannot be returned in the same condition and quantity. The proposal also proposes that pre-contractual information be provided to consumers in areas which are not covered by the proposal for a new law on disclosure and right of withdrawal. Another proposal is to limit the trader’s access to charges and additional payment for agreed performance, as well as provisions on the time of delivery when this is not agreed, and the transition from risk to purchase. The main changes in new law compared to the current law are a common legislation on goods and services, extended access to cancel purchases of goods, although they have been reduced, extended the obligation for the consumer to pay for the return of goods. As a general rule, the consumer shall return the benefit received before the consideration paid to the trader is received in return. Violation of certain information requirements has financial consequences for the trader. The information and right of withdrawal rules also apply when the consumer summons the trader, unless the total remuneration does not exceed NOK 1500. Remote sales by telephone are treated in the same way as other distance sales. Provisions on enforcement and penalties are included in the law. There shall be increased requirements for information from the trader prior to the conclusion of the contract. The specific provisions implementing the Remote Selling Directive on financial services are brought together in one part of the Act. Today, when the Family and Culture Committee presents a unanimous opinion, this is an expression of the fact that consumer rights are well anchored in Norwegian society. The Committee is convinced that the new law will guarantee good consumer rights in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4029	The Right of Withdrawal Act is now being harmonised with other EU and EEA countries, and it will both strengthen consumer rights and facilitate cross-border trade through more uniform rules. Consumer protection is important. Although Norway has strong rights for both consumers and traders, it is still of great importance that we ensure that we have instruments and legislation in place over time. Both the consumption pattern and the operators are in constant change and development. Therefore, we must have laws that simplify and are adapted to different forms of purchase and sale between the consumer and the trader. This is a law that should be easily accessible and easy to understand, as it regulates an area of great public interest. The purpose of the law is to ensure that the consumer is provided with relevant and necessary pre-contractual information in case of distance or off-premises sales. This area is so important for consumers, and this law will have such an interest, that there is reason to stress the Committee's comment on the need for a pedagogical guide, in order to make the main changes of the law easily available. In the consumer-business meeting, we talk about the consumer most and most easily. There is equal reason to recall that there are two parties to be taken into account, both the consumer and the trader. In this case, there will be some stricter requirements for operators. However, the simplification and harmonisation of cross-border trade will also benefit traders. We also see that some exceptions continue. Areas where derogations are proposed to be continued, including: for package travel and passenger transport services, as we heard, are well covered by other legislation. At the same time, we get a simplification by making provisions on the right of withdrawal common to contracts concluded in the case of distance sales and in the case of sales outside premises. With a constantly changing consumption pattern, it is a point to have as simplified and dynamic legislation as possible to ensure consumer rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4042	The Government has submitted a proposal for a new law on disclosure and the right of withdrawal and proposals for amendments to the Marketing Act and the Contracts Act, the Financial Contracts Act, the Consumer Purchases Act and the Consumer Dispute Act. The proposal for a completely new law is due to the fact that the directives require extensive structural changes to the existing law. The legislative proposal will not reduce the high level of consumer protection resulting from the existing law. The purpose of a new law is, like the law in force, to ensure that consumers receive relevant and necessary pre-contractual information in the case of distance and off-premises sales. The legislative proposal implements the EU Consumer Rights Directive. The aim of the Directive is to contribute to the smooth functioning of the internal market by facilitating increased cross-border trade. It provides a high level of consumer protection. Since the Stortinget agreed to incorporate the Directive into the EEA Agreement, it was clear that Norwegian consumers would largely retain or obtain better rights, but that consumer protection might also be impaired in some respects. An e-commerce report from 2013 shows that nine out of ten have traded online, and that more than half of all Norwegians have traded a physical item from a foreign online store. It provides certainty for consumers and predictability for traders when the same rights and obligations apply, regardless of the European country in which they act. Norwegian consumers also purchase goods and services when, for example: are on a summer holiday, a long-term holiday or a study stay in other European countries. They will then benefit from the good rights conferred on them by the implementation of the Directive in all European countries. A significant point for Norwegian consumers is that the actual 14-day withdrawal period is continued. In the case of improvements, the new withdrawal law will also have a simpler structure than the existing law, with fewer exceptions. For example, common requirements are proposed for agreements on goods and services and one system for implementing the right of withdrawal. In addition, the consumer is required to have more pre-contractual information than today. Some information requirements are due to the digital development of society and consumers are required to know the trader’s e-mail address. Another example is information on digital content, for example: whether an e-book can be used on an iPad. A further improvement with a new right of withdrawal is that the trader cannot charge the costs covered where this has not been stated before the agreement was concluded. Therefore, the trader must himself cover additional costs and return costs where this is not stated before trading. To the assistance of the trader, an information form is introduced to ensure that the trader provides such information to the consumer. Most of the provisions of the Directive are fully harmonised, i.e. that no national rules derogating from them have been granted access. However, some provisions are optional, and I am pleased to propose that the specific protection of consumers in the event of unsolicited telephone sales be continued. This means that traders calling a consumer to sell something must confirm their offer in writing after the telephone call and that the consumer is not bound until this offer has been accepted in writing. As mentioned above, the Directive also leads to a slight weakening of protection for Norwegian consumers in a few respects. The consumer will now have to pay for the return of goods when using the right of withdrawal in all cases, if the trader has informed about this cost. Today it is the trader who has to pay for the return on telephone sales and contracts that have not been concluded through the store. In addition, after a new right of withdrawal, the consumer has to pay more for work carried out until the consumer exercises the right of withdrawal. An example of this is if the consumer asks the trader to start painting a house immediately after the conclusion of a contract and the consumer subsequently repents. The new rules also provide some practical simplifications. There will now be one withdrawal form common to non-financial goods and services. I note that the Committee believes that a pedagogical guide to the law on the right of withdrawal should be established. After reading the whole matter, I see that it is a necessity. It's a very technical and complicated law. But I can also tell Stortinget that the Consumer Council has been commissioned by the department to create such a supervisor. It will be posted online when the law enters into force and will benefit both consumers and traders. Overall, the implementation of the Consumer Rights Directive strengthens consumer rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4081	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4095	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4102	I would like to mention briefly that the Committee has proposed some legislative changes to the legislative decision, and unfortunately not all these changes have been included in the legislative decision in the printed version. There will therefore be a correct version of the vote, where the legislative proposal itself will be corrected. The change that will be made is that the abbreviation ‘m.m.’ will be included in the title of the amending law. In addition, the following sentence is now added under II: ‘1. From the date of entry into force of the Act, the following laws shall be amended:»; This sentence shall not stand there and will be deleted. There were some brief case information. It has been built over many years for few dwellings in Norway. It has made it difficult to enter the housing market for those who are currently outside. Population growth in the country is formidable, and it's no exaggeration to assume that over the next 30 years we might have to build as much as in the last 100 years. Nevertheless, in recent years 10 000 fewer dwellings have been built per year than are needed to meet population growth. Public regulations shall not delay or defuse residential construction. There is a need to ensure a faster procedure for construction matters and simplification of the Planning and Building Act is called for by both the public and industry. It's been taken care of by the government from day one, and it also reflects the proposition. I've been traveling around all the counties of the country for the last eight years, in many of the municipalities of the country. I have visited thousands of homes, met many local politicians, and had educational meetings with the construction industry. They are all unisons in their feedback: laws and regulations need to be simplified, and power and trust must be shifted down to the individual municipality and the individual. A good housing policy is primarily about facilitating faster housing, simpler application procedures and fewer demands, details and objections. It is about trusting the individual citizen and the construction industry, and not least about strengthening local self-government. Let me make one suggestion I am particularly pleased with, in the few minutes you have up here: The government is proposing fewer application-related measures. This means that measures such as: smaller garages and outbuildings of up to 50 m2 shall be exempted from municipal proceedings and notification if they are not in breach of plan and otherwise in line with the Planning and Building Act. The previous government also had an intention to reduce the number of actions to be applied for, but their proposals were substantially counterbalanced in the consultation round. This government therefore presents a proposal that solves the simplification challenge without creating more bureaucracy and without creating the release of the previous government proposal. The registration system for which the Workers' Party and the Centre's Contracting Party continue to wish to maintain has been proposed to include extensions of up to 50 m2, garages of up to 70 m2 and agricultural buildings of up to 500 m2 and it was open for construction up to 1 m from the neighbouring border. The measures had to be notified to neighbours, but neither the municipality nor the action holder was obliged to take into account any neighbouring comments. This is at best a quasi-silver -- no simplification. And I'd like to say that when some people say that giving 50 m2 is less than 500 m2, I think you should read the proposition one more time. Today, municipalities use a lot of resources on such small issues. These matters constitute 20 pst. of the construction matters of the municipalities, and people pay large sums in handling fees. The government's proposal to exclude such smaller buildings from municipal proceedings and neighbourhood notices will mean less work for the municipality and less bureaucracy for the inhabitants. At the same time, it should be mentioned that we are still very concerned about reducing disadvantages for our neighbours, and we therefore welcome the fact that the government in the regulations of the Law on Planning and Building will set limits for, among other things. the size, height and distance from the neighbouring border, so that any disadvantages to neighbours are minimised. This proposition that we have dealt with, and the setting that exists, will provide faster housing, less bureaucracy, more predictability, more authority for each municipality and more trust in the individual citizen. Furthermore, these proposals will ensure that the industry can finally make further progress in the construction of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4145	We have to build more homes, because even though housing has taken place in recent years, we have to build more to meet the growing population growth, especially in the big cities. Therefore, the Workers' Party will have a planning and building law that will be a yes law. That is why the Red-Green Government sent a number of proposals on simplification and faster consultation procedures last year. The proposals included, inter alia: faster procedure, more predictability, simplifications and fewer rematches. I am pleased that the blue-blue government is also continuing in this area an important simplification work that was started under the red-green government. I am pleased that there is broad agreement on most of the proposals. In this case, there are many considerations that need to be weighed against each other. The need for simplification must be balanced against the needs of society for legality and control, for the legal certainty of neighbours and for quality considerations. Thus, the government proposes to exempt minor measures from both the obligation to apply and neighbouring alerts. We believe that this is not a solution that balances important considerations well enough. That is why we are on the original proposal of the red-green government, namely a registration obligation that allows municipalities to check the legality of the measure. Authorisation is deemed to have been granted if the municipality has not responded within three weeks. Our proposal also implies that common rules for neighbouring alerts should apply. The government's proposal would allow you to build a 50 m2 garage 1 metre from the neighborhood property without providing the neighbor with sufficient information or the opportunity to make their comments. This proposal has met with criticism, and we have listened to that criticism. We are also concerned about a development in which people with money and resources are increasingly complaining to the courts. We believe that neighboring alerts are a cheap and good investment to prevent nabokmangler from getting into the legal system. I would like to add that the measures we propose to make registration mandatory are largely in line with the measures for which the Directorate for Building Quality prepares electronic solutions in BuildingLight. In the future, we can almost imagine a digital regulatory review and an even faster procedure. We in the Workers' Party just want to stress that we are impatient about digitising the construction process. Another matter has also been the subject of debate. Today, the municipality must give prior approval to undertakings to build and ensure, inter alia, that they: has good enough competence. Due to an ESA judgment, the Government proposes that the scheme be abolished. It has caused concern in the industry, which fears more unprofessionalism and illegalities. We share that concern and therefore consider it important that compensatory measures be introduced quickly. We are concerned about the development of the construction industry, with increased social dumping, loss of skills, recruitment problems, black work and quality challenges. These are challenges for the serious actors in the industry and for society as a whole. If the construction industry in Norway is to have a future, it is important that enterprises that give formal, verifiable competence should have better framework conditions. The working party therefore believes it is essential that we have measures in place to lift the serious part of the industry. We know that the BNL has set up an expert group to take action. We are pleased to discuss these proposals, but we should wish – and we think it is most appropriate – that the compensatory measures had been put in place while at the same time withdrawing local approval. I note that the Right and Advance Party are not in favour of a single comment expressing concern about the development of the construction industry and the need for more action. I hope it's not synonymous that you don't care. Today, we are making many important simplifications in the construction process. I am pleased that we agree on most of the measures. I would like to stress that in order to speed up housing, we also need measures in the short term. One of the easiest things we can do now is to strengthen the Husbank and build more student homes. We in the Labour Party propose this in our revised national budget. Unfortunately, the right-hand side is going to vote against. We think it's important that we now use all the tools we have in the toolbox, but unfortunately, I'm recording that on the right-hand side is the will to do it small. I address the proposals where the Workers' Party is a co-sponsor. I have time for an explanation of vote. Together with the Senterpartiet, we have promoted an alternative proposal for § 20-4. If it falls, the Workers' Party will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the Government Parties. The working party shall vote against the proposed amendments to the second and fifth paragraphs of Section 20-3 and against the proposed amendments to the first paragraph of Section 21-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4176	The representative Stine Renate Håheim has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4179	First, I would like to thank the case manager for a good review of the case and, not least, for a good job of presenting the case to the Stortinget. He also had a good description of the need for more housing and the housing situation in the country, which is positive. I've had our local politicians for 15 years. Taking the word in this room and knowing that there are multiples to simplify and renew the law of planning and building is a dream that comes true. This law has been important to many local politicians from the Progress Party. Many of our local politicians are becoming local politicians precisely because they have met a bureaucracy attached to the Law on Planning and Building. They've tried to apply for something and have met a bureaucracy that's weighted an engagement that's made them register and our local politicians. For all of these, this is a great day. There is one that can be found, among other things. build garages on their own property without having to search, complete many forms, wait weekly for answers and use thousands of kroner for a fee. I would also like to commend the previous government for focusing on simplifying by sending a number of suggestions that form the basis for this matter. It is regrettable that they have spent eight years coming to the realization that there may be a need to change and simplify the law, but at the end of the day they did it and let out a number of suggestions. It's also great that there's competition between the parties about who simplifies the most. I'm reasonably sure who wins that competition. The starting point that was sent on the hearing has been a good starting point for the case of simplifying, which the government has put on the table today. At some points, there's a difference. In some respects, we are a few and we are continuing the proposal. One important point where we have different suggestions is the point where the previous government tried to create a registration system and thus create another element in the process – create even more bureaucracy and work. I wonder why a highlighter – why one stands firm – what most people in the audience said was a bad idea. I would also like to ask a question about the importance of this with neighbouring alerts, when it is stated in concrete terms in the proposal made by the previous government: ‘Acts registered under this provision shall not be subject to an appeal.’ What is the point of fixing a new system, if it does not lead to something concrete? Another big difference is that we make it easier to build independent building of up to 50 m2 on our own property. But we don't let the same rule apply to additions. There is a difference between an extension to construct, and a stand-alone building to use for example. car storage and storage. I noticed that the red-green government meant that only one had to report an addition of 70 m2. We think that an addition of 70 m2 is something to apply for. When it comes to the new proposal, that one can build without seeking and without reporting, it is important to stress that those who do have a private responsibility to ensure that what they do is in line with the law on planning and building. It is not free for anyone to build anything, but if there is a requirement in the Law on Planning and Building, a smaller building can be set up. The Department is now working on regulations that regulate this. I trust that they will be so good that you can take care of the different interests that need to be – even when it comes to neighbours. Nor should we underestimate the neighboring talk that arises when people are interested in having a good dialogue with their neighbor. I don't think the options are either municipal plan selection or the legal system. I believe that neighbors, too, are able to talk to each other and are interested in building something that their neighbors respect. The regulation will also provide good guidance. I think the discussion that one has is exaggerated. Municipalities must be forbidden to provide guidance to residents to benefit from the new option. By 20 pst. Reduced procedural time due to this fall, municipalities will have plenty of time to provide service and guidance to their inhabitants. The party of progress is very happy to sit in government and to agree to suggest a simpler everyday life for most people. This is the first thing – but not the last – in this period when Stortinge deals with laws to simplify. The government has already made a new proposition linked to the plan part – to be addressed by the Energy and Environment Committee – where, among others. proposes to withdraw the five-year plan rule. In addition to working with the regulations, there is a lot of simplification from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4219	There is a cross-political agreement to ensure rapid processing and simplification of the Law on Planning and Building. It has been called for by both the public sector, industry and municipalities. The entire Committee welcomes the need to take action to facilitate and facilitate the construction of new dwellings and to implement smaller measures on its own property. Over many years, few dwellings have been built in Norway, and population growth is one of the reasons. A good housing policy is about facilitating faster housing, simpler application procedures and fewer demands, details and objections. Simplification is central to the question of the obligation to apply to the building authorities, where there is a question of how much is to be pre-evaluated by the municipality for the measures. The application threshold has been discussed in all audits. The discussion on the level of the obligation to apply mainly concerns measures of a smaller size and perhaps also less societal importance. I believe that we need to carefully assess the resources to be used by the municipality for actions that are of major importance for neighbouring conditions, very often of a private-law nature. It is claimed that it could increase the risk of illegalities and that action-holders and neighbours will lose the conflict resolution mechanism contained in a building permit, but I believe that it is also important to look at the relationship between the disadvantages and the resource saving the municipality and the action holder can now achieve. Doing something on its own property — extension, garage or accommodation — will naturally have an interest in the neighbor. It will be in everyone's interest for neighbours to maintain good border conditions and alerts and discuss actions with each other. On the other hand, we believe that the landowner must, under certain conditions, facilitate his needs and opportunities as long as it takes place within the existing regulatory provisions and municipal technical standards for the area. In addition to this, landowners have to deal with private law issues in the neighbouring law, which may go at least as far in substance as the neighbouring notice in the previous construction case treatment. Section 5 of the Neighborhood Act states that no one must start digging, building, blasting, etc. without securing neighboring property. Section 6 goes further. Under the heading ‘Guidance Notice and Pre-Decisions’ it is stated that when someone wants to start planting, digging, construction, industrial activity or other activities, he must notify his neighbour in a reasonable time in advance. This requires the municipality to have good control plans, usually with specified building heights and building lines and other municipal technical conditions, such as: securing against construction over water and sewerage. With regard to regulatory plans, all landowners, charities and stakeholders are entitled to an opinion. Otherwise, we also assume that the new regulations to come have clearly defined limits on size, height and design. In addition, fire regulations and minimum distance from neighbours as before shall apply. Today's regulations and laws are going to impose strict demands on quality, safety and good living conditions, and with my experience from tens, probably hundreds, of practical matters, I don't think that this change in alerts is going to be free. The Neighborhood Act applies as before, and it is always best to inform the neighbor. Morally, this action holder is committed to taking responsibility for ensuring good public order and good neighbourliness. At the same time, ownership is important, as practices have shown from many bureaucratic after-sales stocks. However, it is important that municipalities establish good solutions through ICT and service squares that make it easy for individuals to find and follow the legislation, because now the landowner is fully responsible for ensuring that all measures meet the conditions for both neighbours and authorities, and must take the consequences of them on his own. The Christian People's Party will therefore support the changes as reported in the Proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4232	It was then the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, Liv Signe Navarsete, who, a year ago, sent proposals for simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building. Now Stortinget can put its approval mark on some of the proposals that were launched. They have mainly been followed up by the new government and in the committee position we are now dealing with. It is important to streamline construction processes. Simple and comprehensible regulation and quick and efficient processing are a goal most of us share. Most of us also agree that the construction processes are too detailed and too heavy. Even professional construction actors strive to get all the details into the right place in the right form. The length of time spent by public authorities is a heavy point of appeal. We need to believe that simpler legislation will help to reduce processing time as well. There is another side to this here that has emerged both in the reply to the consultation round and in the committee hearing on the matter. Simplifications by removing the requirements and opportunities to comment on the construction plans of neighbours and stakeholders also have their negative aspects, and I would like the requirement for a neighbouring alert to be retained. I think that would have a anti-conflict, preventive effect. A hearing body did consider something such as reducing the need for an engineer in the local office, but the danger is that two new lawyers should now be hired instead. Our efforts to simplify construction processes need to strike the right balance between the builder's interests, which are not to meet a hopeless bureaucracy, and the consideration of stakeholders, who are not to be integrated by a neighbor who does not show sufficient consideration. Nevertheless, I would argue that we have tended to take so many considerations into account that the law has become too complicated, and that has given us a too cumbersome procedure. Through this case we are now on the right track. There is a central point in the government’s proposal that departs from the consultation note and the wording of the red-green government, and the question of the nature of the measures to be covered by this simplification. The hearing memo proposed to replace today's obligation to apply with a registration system for simpler construction. The proposal extended up to 50 m2, open-plan buildings, such as garages, etc., up to 70 m2 and operational buildings up to 500 m2. The obligation to apply should be removed in favour of registration of the construction measure. After three weeks, the builder could start if no response had been received with objections, and the usual neighboring warning would still apply. The government is not involved in the measures taken by the consultation proposal in relation to buildings and operational buildings. There they suggest no simplification. However, in the case of detached buildings less than 50 m2, both the obligation to apply and the requirement to notify neighbours shall be excluded. There was little support for the government's proposal in the Committee's hearing. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party, has re-examined the proposals of the Red-Green Government and the consultation note on a notification system and simplification for more types of construction than has been the case with the majority of the Committee. In its review of the consultation opinions contained in the Communication, the Ministry points out that the vast majority of the hearing bodies were in favour of simplification, but many at the same time have some counter-representations, particularly related to neighbouring alerts. Other counter-conceptions were linked to a fear that simplification proposals could contribute to the regulatory release through construction projects that should have been more carefully assessed. But it's not clear. The builder shall act independently of the obligation to apply for or to report to the general legislation under the Planning and Building Act. Of course, there is a danger that inexperienced or unprofessional actors can cause greater problems in retrospect. On the part of the Centre Party, we attach great importance to the fact that these changes in the Planning and Building Act should lead to simplification and to the release of treatment capacity. We believe that the proposal for amendments to the consultation proposal is best and safest, not least because we place emphasis on a neighbouring warning in that proposal. On the part of the Committee, however, there is no majority in favour of our proposal, and there is reason to believe that it will fall during the vote. The centre party will therefore vote in a subsidiary way for the vote of the majority. I perceive that the Workers' Party took up the suggestions we agree on in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4261	The left supports the intention to streamline the procedure — we need more housing — in planning and construction matters and believes that, in some cases, there is a need to relax the obligation to apply. However, the work on the supervision and follow-up of illegalities needs to be strengthened. We are also committed to a regulatory framework that provides a good predictability for all parties involved, including landowners and homeowners, who take action themselves, and neighbours affected by the measures. We believe, however, that the main act of efficiency is to weaken local taste in municipalities. The municipalities are different and need different solutions. We believe that it is a strength by the Planning and Building Act that it opens up different solutions at different locations. Obviously, the challenges in Overhalla are different from those in the middle of Oslo. Even with larger municipalities, there will be major differences in geography, distances, population density, growth challenges, etc. Equal treatment will therefore vary across municipalities. Therefore, the Left would like to see that it was up to the individual municipality to decide whether it was appropriate to introduce an exemption from the obligation to apply for smaller garages and outdoors of up to 50 m2. Once again, there are obvious differences between Oslo and Overhalla. The neighbor is rarely so close that there is some problem in the districts. The plot is large enough that there are several possibilities for placement without any inconvenience to the neighbor. In the more densely populated areas, plots are often smaller and neighbours are closer. But if you're a local politician in Oslo and you want to introduce this anyway, they know best what's right for Oslo. However, we recognise that it is not a majority, and we regret it. For the sake of order, I would like to make it clear that we do not believe that the minority's proposal for a registration system is a better solution, and I refer again to the many critical comments made on it in the consultation round. However, we agree with the minority that a weakening of the neighbouring alert institute is worrying. A neighbouring alert is important for the prevention of neighbouring conflicts. Knowing that the neighbour is to be consulted avoids the location of actions that are manifestly of concern to the neighbour. We don't think the level of conflict between neighbours will be reduced when they become less involved. Unfortunately, there is a greater danger that the level of conflict will increase, and that someone will then have to contact a lawyer and take legal action to stop the problem. Lawyers, of course, have an important role in society, but in neighbouring conflicts they have an escalating effect. We also have doubts about how much a saving of society's resource use by reducing the obligation to apply. It is clear that the risk of illegalities will increase and that therefore the building authorities will need to strengthen the control and sanction more illegalities afterwards rather than to approve in advance. This also leads to a loss of income as a result of the loss of the fee linked to the former applicant. Nor do we exclude the removal of the requirement of local approval of enterprises. However, the left considers that it is very unfortunate that one in the proposal for § 21-4 would deprive the municipalities of the opportunity to assess the technical aspects of construction measures. This is an entry the municipalities have and not a commitment. We are afraid that responsible companies that have no longer been evaluated and authorised locally will be able to leave the responsibility behind, and it is therefore important that the measure be assessed in advance in some cases. This is about quality, safety and accountability. Therefore, the Left does not support the proposal to delete the wording ‘if conditions do not warrant otherwise’ in the second sentence of Section 21-4 of the Building and Planning Act and will vote against it during voting. In addition, we ask that we also vote against § 21-3 regarding neighbouring alerts – what is new in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4294	First, I would like to mention our proposal in the vote. Everyone wants more housing, but the most important thing to do is to strengthen the House Bank and build more student homes. There are thousands of completed regulated residential areas that stand clear very many places, including in this city. There are no changes in the Law on Planning and Building that would be better on it. The majority of the hearing bodies, however, stressed the need to have an up-to-date ICT system in the municipalities, which ensures that matters are dealt with quickly, and not least that they have up-to-date plans. There's some of the things that are missing most in the municipalities. Regulation plans and construction plans are sometimes old, or they are not there. Then it's hard to get built. The previous government sent proposals to the hearing. And they send you to the hearing to hear. I have gone through many of the hearing opinions, and many of them are very critical of parts of the proposal. They point out that the freedom that will now be granted is a freedom at the expense of others — sometimes also at the expense of society and at the expense of quality. Then SV cannot see that part of these proposals is of the good, and some of them we should not adopt. It's been four years since the Law on Planning and Building was last amended. Then a lot was changed, and very many of the stories that now concern the Law on Planning and Building apply to the law that existed before 2010. So those who describe the law now as awfully heavy and difficult, haven't quite read the lesson about how the story of this is. There's been a lot of discussion about these 50 m2 and more than 1 meter from the neighbor. It is to put a very great responsibility on the respondent that he should find out whether this is in line with plans and regulations. And how do you figure that out? Then you have to go to the municipality and ask. Then the municipality must respond to it and use the time and forces they use today to accept an application to do so. But now they don't get any fees for the job they're going to do – they only get more work. If you are not a responsible action holder, you may not ask, and you do not notify the neighbor, either. We can imagine that there may not be any measures that mitigate neighbouring conflicts, as many have been involved here in the past, and that this will probably also contribute to many more cases. That's why a lot of the hearing bodies have been very critical of this, and we're against it. We are also opposed to what the Workers' Party and the Centre are now proposing to accept this if you have a registration system. We don't think a registration system will work well. We think it's better that it's like today that you actually have to search. That job probably has to be done by the municipality in most cases, regardless of whether this is in line with laws and regulations, and that you have to give a neighboring notice, so that you can clarify this. In most cases, this is going very well, and you don't burden the legal system. The municipality, which is going to control this in retrospect, may not know that the building is even there. Then they're going to check it and find that something's wrong, and then you're going to have to start a trial to get it torn down again or fixed up. It's not going to be less bureaucracy, it's going to be a lot more. This will now have to be done by the municipalities without the basic fees they have received. Then I see that the government says that this control business might be financed with a fee, but that remains to be seen. There are several points here, and neighbouring notices I have been so far within, but it is also about this with the approval of responsible companies. Changes have been made in the EEA, but several countries within the EU have still retained some of these local authorisation schemes. SV believes that we should not remove the local authorisation system until we have a new state authorisation system in place. There is no doubt — and the industry is clear in warning against it — that this will not only allow for the construction of poor quality buildings, which you will have to endure for a long time, and which the municipality may have to contribute to rectify, but will also open up a large new market for black work and social dumping, and we do not need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4316	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4320	The government has started a major effort to simplify the Planning and Building Act. We respond to criticism that has been raised over several years, from industry, from municipalities and from residents. The goal is a simpler and more predictable planning and building law. The goal is more and more affordable housing and less bureaucracy. The Planning and Building Act shall provide for predictability and ensure quality. Since the Planning and Building Act as a whole is being brought together in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, we have been given a greater opportunity to see the context of the entire planning and building process and to provide a better basis for the simplification measures that are now being implemented. We want to contribute to more efficient planning and construction processes, fewer rematches and more predictability for both industry, municipality and residents. We're doing a great job of simplification. We facilitate fewer objections by placing greater emphasis on local democracy, by shorter deadlines and by raising the threshold of objections. We have now provided for simplifications in the Building Act, for the plan part and also in the Building Technical Regulation. The proposals we are considering today contribute to new and shorter deadlines for the municipal proceedings. We exempt more measures from application obligations, and we contribute to fewer redundancies and less bureaucracy. Several of the new deadlines are important. Among other things, we propose that simple construction projects for which people themselves can be responsible, for example. housing additions up to 50 m2 shall be allowed a period of up to three weeks. Today, there is an automatic way that neighbouring protests lead to an extension of up to 12 weeks. We believe that authorisation should be regarded as granted if the municipality has not dealt with the matter within three weeks. We also propose to exempt further measures from the obligation to apply. It is perhaps the case that has created the most discussion. We believe that there is a reasonable simplification measure which obviously requires the action holder to deal with the laws and regulations and the municipal regulatory plans. We also want to consult a new regulation that will also require both height, length and other issues that are important in a neighbouring relationship. These matters currently constitute 20 pst. of the construction materials of the municipalities. This means that when these cases are taken out of the formal obligation to apply, municipalities will be freed of capacity so that they can invest more in the large and complex issues and can also be a better guide for the citizens. I record that the red-green parties, with the exception of SV, stick to their original proposal. It is a proposal that was more radical or more extreme than the government has set up, without seeking to start building up to 50 m2, 70 m2 of garage or 500 m2 of farmland. Although a formal neighbouring alert was maintained, municipalities or action holders were not obliged to take account of this neighbouring alert. I note that the representative, Mr. Greni, says that the requirement for a neighbouring alert will reduce the risk of neighbouring conflicts. I can quote a head of a building committee who said: Today there is a complaint about almost everything – it cannot be worse than it is today! The system we have does not help to reduce neighboring conflicts. We believe that the proposal we have put forward will contribute both to more predictability and to other ways of resolving the conflicts. Let me conclude by saying that with the proposal we are promoting, in the light of the EEA requirement for local approval, we are committed to the same thing as the other parties in Stortinget, namely ensuring seriousness and quality. We work well with the construction industry to find an alternative to the local approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4358	The Council of State is concerned with what it refers to as a sensible simplification measure, namely to exempt minor measures from both compulsory and neighbouring alerts. Then the question is, "Simplification for whom?" In Budstikka on 13 June, there was an interesting article in which a citizen of Asker fears several conflicts because of what is referred to as “Sanner-shu”. The Land Association of the Houseowners says that there will be more neighbouring disputes because they will now use the neighbouring law to get cases to the court. My question to the Council of State is: Tar Huseiernes Landsförbund wrong, and does the Council of State think that conflicts are less affected by the smaller involvement of neighbours?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4367	It must be based on a misunderstanding if the representative believes that the municipality should be a mercenary between neighbours, because that is not the case. The municipality should ensure that the actionholder acts in accordance with the laws and regulations, which the actionholder must of course do. The proposal behind the Workers' Party is also such that neither the action holder nor the municipality need to take account of any neighbouring alert. That's why there's a blow in the air, the alternative that the red-greens have set up. We believe that the proposal we are now promoting contributes to simplification by freeing the municipality a lot of capacity that can be used on bigger and more important issues. It helps people not to pay construction fees, they can get started faster, but of course they have to deal with the laws and regulations, and we will also ensure that the regulations that are being laid down ensure that the care of neighbours is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4374	Just to ask a follow-up question – if I understood the Council correctly. Does the Council of State mean that the Landers Association of the Houses has misunderstood? Is the Council of State saying that the Landers' League of the Houses comes here with a blow in the air? It's very interesting to get an explanation of, because we've received a lot of enquiries about this and seen a lot of commitment. We've seen a lot of things in the media that people are concerned that there's a good situation out there – keeping the level of conflict as low as possible. So is it that the Houseowners' League has misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4379	In this case, I disagree with the Houseowners' League. When I talk about a blow in the air, it's the proposal the Labour Party is behind, that is, you're not going to apply. You're going to have a neighborhood alert, but you don't have to take into account the neighborhood alert. Then you will register the measure, which means that it will not be smaller, but perhaps more bureaucracy than it has been. So the Workers' Party stands for a more radical proposal without simplification. We have a more moderate proposal that contributes to simplification. It is not that the municipality should be a broker between neighbours. The municipality will assess whether the action holder is dealing with laws and regulations, and I trust that neighbours are concerned about having a good neighbour relationship. This is what we believe we are doing with the regulation that will be put forward, which will also underline the framework for the new buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4386	The government is very concerned with simplification, and therefore I am somewhat surprised that there are several of these simplification proposals proposed in the consultation note, which have not been included in the proposal. I would like to ask the Council of State what is the reason for adding, and not least agricultural buildings, has been withdrawn from the simplification proposal. Agricultural buildings are just the type of construction that, among other things, The representative of Skkelstad mentioned here, which is located in areas where there are no neighbours close in and where there is no problem that it is located in densely populated areas and will be of concern to the neighbours. What is the reason why it is not included in the simplification proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4393	That is because we believe that the proposal went too far, it was too extreme, the proposal that the red-greens have put on the table. We believe that an addition of 50 m2, a garage of 70 m2 and an agricultural estate of up to 500 m2, without having to search, was too extreme. When the proposal would not contribute to real simplification, we dropped that proposal. What the red-green parties proposed was to have a separate registration system. This means that a new case type is being built in the municipalities, and therefore that proposal would not contribute to simplification, and it was also strongly criticised in the consultation round. An additional proposal without simplification could not be put behind us, which is why we have tabled a more moderate proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4407	In the case of a neighbouring alert, Section 21-3, fourth paragraph, states that no neighbouring alert is required when there is a regulatory plan. In very many areas, there are no existing regulatory plans, even in old residential areas. Then I think it will come to you that there will be more conflicts. That's what I said earlier, that by having a system of municipal approval, these conflicts had been avoided. I would like to consider what the Council of State thinks, whether this is anti-conflict in those areas where there are no existing regulatory plans, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4412	We believe that our proposal takes care of the different considerations and balances the different considerations in a good way. It is about balancing considerations — consideration of the action holder, consideration of neighbours and, of course, consideration for the development of the municipality. We will help balance the local authority’s concerns with the regulations to which the person concerned must deal. It is as I have also stressed several times, even today, that the municipality should be a broker between neighbours. This must be done in other ways, and we believe that our proposal is balanced and well-balanced and takes care of the different reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4417	For those cases that are now exempted from the application, the action holder is the seafarer who has the full responsibility. If you want to know if there are any plans, where the water supply is going – all this has to be taken into account if you want to set up a building of 50 m2 – you have to contact the municipality. The municipality must respond to this and spend time on it. Today, the municipality receives fees from the application process, and they have to do exactly the same now as they did in the application process, but without income. Several of the hearing bodies point to this fact, that simplification can lead to less fees for municipalities and must cancel people, so that they have fewer to deal with regulatory plans and follow-up to those measures that need follow-up. How has the government come to the conclusion that this should be cost-effective in such a way that the municipalities actually have the resources to follow up what they are also responsible for in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4428	My concern is not primarily about the municipality's fee revenue. I am more concerned that the people with this can charge off the fee, and that you can set up the building you want to realize more quickly. So these things make up a whole of 20 pst. of the construction materials of the municipalities. When the municipalities do not deal with these, something can be made more effective, and then some of the capacity of the larger and more complicated cases can be used, and the municipalities can also be more likely to guide the population. Most municipalities today have established service squares, where the municipality’s inhabitants can meet the municipality’s employees and, with our proposals, will then be able to get more guidance on how to proceed, instead of allowing the municipality’s employees time to process the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4438	This shows that the Council of State has not understood what will be the consequences of this, namely that when an application is not to be dealt with, there is no fee revenue. I understand that the Council of State is not particularly concerned about it, but that is what the municipality regards as case handlers – the money that comes in helps to employ people who can just do this guidance task that the respondent needs to have. Because you need to contact the municipality to get that guidance, if you don't – to put it that way – take the chance to set something up without asking anyone. I hope no one does. Many of the hearing bodies have just pointed out that the calculation the government is setting up is not correct. When the fee revenue disappears, you will not be able to manage these offices in the same way as you do today – you will not get better quality and service, but it will get worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4443	I do not see any question in what was now said. I just noticed that we probably have a slightly different perspective on this matter. The representative Karin Andersen is concerned about the fees received by the municipalities. I am pleased that the municipality's citizens do not pay a fee and can get a faster handling of their case by not having to deal with small, simple construction applications, but the action holder must himself be responsible for complying with the laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4448	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4453	I'm not so busy with the fee revenue either, just to start by saying that. As an explanation of vote, we will vote for our paragraphs, § 21-3 and what is new there, and § 21-4, second paragraph. If this is going to fall, which we think is likely, we're going to vote for the rest of the plan and building law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4460	I have to take the floor to say that I think the Council of State deliberately misinterprets what I am saying. SV is not concerned with the fees received by municipalities, but we are concerned that the population should receive good service when they contact the municipality in order to get answers to the questions they need to answer in order to get started. Now the individual – the individual – has full responsibility. All those responsible will then check this out first. The construction industry says this, the municipalities say that these fees are part of the financing of the service we are going to provide to our citizens. So that's what's the whole problem, and in addition, the municipalities are going to be required to have control of the construction that they might not know is there. It shall be possible for them to do so, without any revenue ensuring that they have personnel to carry out those tasks. Well, it's very nice that you can have construction measures, as long as there's no conflict and it's affecting the freedom of others. I have probably seen that there may be a little life in the gardens of Asker and Bærum and around there when you are going to build these large garages one meter from the neighbor's property. It may well be that people who can afford a lawyer – what do I know – but I don't think there will be any smaller conflicts. I don't think the municipality gets any less to do, because the municipality has to get into all of these cases – not as a conflict resolution mechanism, which is currently in the neighbourhood alert and approval, but as an up-and-coming in a legal case, which is to clarify what is the planned, legitimate, basis for a construction measure. This is to drag the conflicts out in time, and I think, unfortunately, there are more conflicts. I wish it was that simple, and I hope it goes well. I hope that everyone makes contact with the neighbor before they build, and that this is handled in a reasonable way. But the municipalities still have to answer all these questions. In that case, at least the local government minister has a big job to do in ensuring that municipalities have the finances to employ the people who are going to have the equipment that can help people there and then, in place, and that they also have the economy to do better planning than what you do today. Up-to-date plans should be put in place – not only for regulatory purposes, but also for construction plans. You should also have up-to-date ICT tools, which should actually be standardised, in all municipalities, so that this was technically similar in all municipalities, and that it worked very quickly and very well. All the hearing bodies say that that's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4469	I can reassure the hall that I'm not going to spend five minutes. I just need to say some things. We have received criticism that our proposal is both too radical and unaltered. I suggest that the right-hand side decides if it's too radical, or if there's no change. In the hearing, the red-green government's proposal received a lot of support. In the proposition, the Department writes among others: that most people were in favour of the simplification proposal. We also see that the Norwegian Construction and Property Association writes that they support it proposed by the Red-Green Government. NBBL also supports the proposal for a registration scheme and shares the view that the scheme will be resource-saving for both the action holder and the municipality. In a letter to the Committee, BNL writes inter alia: they propose that, for the measures for which no application is to be made, registration or notification obligations should be imposed, in order to facilitate, inter alia, the provision of services. supervision. It's a little bit that you can hit each other in the head with different hearing bodies, but I think everyone's working to admit that here it's divided, that there's different considerations that stand up against each other. To put a little perspective on the debate: what we've been discussing a lot now is garages, essentially. It is possible that, with the government's proposal, it will be a little faster to build garages, but we fear that the winnings will go a little bit up in the spinning here – and more homes will hardly be able to do so, in isolation. I just want to finish by repeating my call that immediate action is also needed to get the housing building going, so it is still fully possible to support the Workers' Party's proposal for more student housing and increased frameworks to the House Bank when we are going to deal with it later this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4480	With between twenty and thirty years of experience in municipal policy, I have seen that in construction, there are often complaints and objections – complaints about the view, complaints about windows, complaints about shadows, complaints about borders, etc. In the municipality that I know of, there has been a greater technical need for lawyers than for construction professionals, which the municipality has taken the consequences of which we can now save. I would just like to point out that a lot of the proceedings have agreed to appeals, objections and recommendations to the County Council and other authorities, which are decided by the municipality's response that these are private-law things that people themselves have to deal with, that is not the responsibility of the municipality. Finally, I just want to add that it is very important, as SV pointed out, that there will be good ICT and good service in the municipalities, which can provide answers to people. However, if a municipality has out-of-date regulatory plans, they can update the municipal technical regulations, and they can have such a character that they will deal with many of the problems that are not in the individual regulatory plan. Municipalities can reasonably easily address this and make general regulations, which apply throughout the municipality and which do not need to be linked to each individual regulatory plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4489	Let me just stress that I am pleased with the broad consensus that, after all, it is linked to the simplification proposals that we are dealing with today. I am also pleased with the impatience shown by several parties in further simplification measures. We want to have a good dialogue with our cooperation parties, but also with the opposition to achieve simplifications that can speed up housing. I have a few comments for the representative of Håheim. Firstly, no one has said that there would be no change with the proposal that the Workers' Party and the Centre – and formerly also SV – are behind. What I underlined is that it is a more radical proposal that would not contribute to significant simplification because it has proposed a separate registration system. It is precisely in the context of the criticism given to the proposal in the consultation round that we presented a more moderate proposal, which will contribute to significant simplification. Finally, let me also refer to the proposal for the suspension of local liability approval, where we are concerned about having a good and close cooperation with the construction industry now to find the good solutions. It is quite right, as has been said in the debate here, that the industry itself is concerned with seriousness and quality. That is also why I believe that the proposal which, among other things, The Labour Party is promoting, to make the voluntary national scheme mandatory, a little premature, simply because we are now working with the industry to find the right solutions. Like the construction industry, we believe that we can make the central voluntary system a quality stamp for the industry. We had hoped that we could do that job before making proposals to make the national scheme mandatory. In addition, the municipality will also have the capacity to contribute to better supervision of construction works rather than the authorisation system they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4500	The President will state that the regulatory time for the evening meeting has now passed. The President will propose that today's map be completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4504	I take the hint that we will contribute to our completion today. I did not really take the floor to debate new points, necessarily, but I thought I would take the opportunity to thank the committee for its good practice. I am pleased that we have a broad consensus on the vast majority of things in the proposition, and that the Workers' Party and the Senter Party are now notifying that they vote subsidiaryly for our proposals, where they had promoted their own. There are two myths that have really emerged in the debate in the media, in chronicles, in newspapers – and also a little in the debate here. It is the myth that the planning and building kit and the municipality are a form of conflict resolution body for neighbours who are in conflict with each other, or that it should be the body to resolve neighbouring conflicts, or be a taste and pleasure broker. Then I would like to refer to the neighbouring law. Very much of what is taken up by concerns is regulated there. Furthermore, many of the same concerns are regulated in the Planning and Building Act and in the regulation plans in the municipality. It is a little important now not to assign the planning and building kit any roles other than what it is intended to do. Nor shall it be open to anyone to build anything, because we are to have more unsolicited measures. It shall be within the regulated plans of a municipality. We're going to send out a regulation at the hearing where this will be further affected, so that we ensure that the burden on our neighbours is kept to a minimum. But when talking about large plots in Bærum or Oslo, I have to say that an area where a double garage of 50 m2 is to be built, after all, is less than a plot where you have to have a single addition, as it was said, of 500 m2 up to 1 metre from the neighbouring border – although I know that the plots are large outside Oslo. But there'll be limits to what neighbours won't be allowed to say about. I think this is a step in the right direction to simplify, renew and improve. I think that the neighboring crane statistics in a few years will show that these are the right actions, and that we will also see it in the statistics on housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4526	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4540	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from a member of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4547	The presentation of the case in this case we have to deal with now, has in a good way provided a broad review of the law on compensation for natural damage, in line with St. prp. No 1 for 2004–2005. There has been no full review of the Natural Damage Act since the law was first adopted in 1961, and it has been high time to put this matter on the agenda and make any necessary changes. The proposals involve significant simplification and strengthening, for the benefit of all parties. The Committee, through its examination, has expressed clear support for the main line of the proposal, as well as a clear majority of the hearing bodies. There are several amendments in the proposal, but I would like to draw up a few of them, which the Committee has also expressed in particular. In the proposal, a shift away from the system of wage-earners for the establishment of tariffs and to a purely administrative model with the State's agricultural management as a national administrative body. This helps both to free up police resources and to ensure more effective treatment, but perhaps what is at least equally important: a faster payment of compensation. Today, a currant case may have a treatment period of four to six months, while the new model is estimated to contribute to a halving, and we have to say that we are reasonably satisfied with that. At the same time, it is gratifying that landowners and other rightholders are also included in this scheme. The Committee shares the view of the government on the importance of opening up further regulation of recourse requirements and advance warning of recourse requirements. A recourse requirement may in some cases be applicable to municipalities. Regression to municipalities, for example, may be relevant where building permits have been granted in a racial or flooded area. Therefore, further regulation of the possibility of recourse is necessary in the view of the Committee, including ensuring that the third party is entitled to express an opinion prior to a possible recourse. Finally, I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the amendments proposed in the law on compensation for natural damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4564	New law on compensation for damage mainly involves procedural changes compared to current legislation. The material content of the scheme has largely continued, of course, with some changes and codification of established practices. This is a legal work with which the previous government worked a lot, and is allowed to become the first agricultural matter from this government that is being treated in Stortinget. There is every reason to support the law and proposals contained therein — and this is reflected in the unanimous position of the Committee. However, it is not that a new law will make conflicts disappear or that some will not feel unfairly treated when natural damage occurs. There may be questions of compensation measurement, of the separation between recovery and protection, of compensation for rescue costs and of the recovery of additional costs in order to reduce the risk of future damage to the natural environment. The new law does not mean that all difficult assessments disappear, but hopefully it will be much quicker to clarify the issues and get the money on book. Then I'm told that we're not just going to paint the situation that's been using the lumbar sex. It is important to stress the importance of local knowledge in this type of issue and that it is also necessary to strive to include local knowledge in the process with a new model. Several of the difficult questions will be clarified in the more detailed regulatory work, and I have taken the floor today to highlight some of the issues that I believe are central. Firstly, the proportion of those who claim compensation for several properties is central. Here it is the view of the Centre Party that a cap must be placed on a protrusion when the regulation is to be laid down. The proposition says that the new scheme should not substantially change the costs, but I would also like to highlight what it says is to be seen as ‘reasonable and fair’. We expect the government to follow up on this, because it is difficult to say that five excesses of one damage are fair and fair. Then the centre party is concerned that, in establishing regulations on rescue costs, considerable understanding is to be given to injured parties and that the regulations do not become too system-friendly. The centre party and the Workers' Party have also stated in the comments that the right to recourse must be designed and practised in a way that does not give undue expression to the municipalities, and that we are concerned that this will be preserved in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4583	I am happy to be here today with a bill that has a social importance. I am also pleased that the whole Stortinge agrees with this. The main objective of revising the Natural Damage Act is to create a simpler, more efficient and forward-looking law. Furthermore, the legislative proposal provides for a better legal structure and a clearer distinction between the existing rules on protection against natural damage and the rules on compensation for natural damage. The State compensation scheme for natural damage is currently governed by the Law on Natural Damage of l994. The law has undergone significant changes over the years without a full review since the first law was passed in 1961. Applications for natural damages are dealt with in two stages. As a general rule, the damage is first assessed by a member of the community, then a decision on compensation is taken by the board of the State Natural Damage Fund. There are complaints/anomalies in each track. Experience from major natural disasters involving many victims shows that the current system is inefficient and leads to a long process. Figures for the period 2004–2013 show that, on average, approximately 1 350 natural damage cases are dealt with annually, while annual payments are on average higher than 100 million. kr. The number of annual claims and the amount of compensation payments may vary widely from year to year, depending on the size of natural accidents in the previous year. In recent years, the extent of damage also suggests that the State should have a more robust and forward-looking compensation system capable of addressing the challenges in a more flexible and faster way than the current system provides. The legislative proposal goes on to a large extent the material content of today's law on natural damage, but the proposal involves a great degree of simplification, by replacing today's two-track model on natural damage with a purely management model. This leads to shorter procedures so that the victim is paid more quickly than under the present system. According to the proposal, the workers will no longer have the task of appreciating natural damage. Harm-reduction is a task that requires large resources in the districts of lenners that are exposed to natural damage. It is not appropriate for the police to use their resources for such work. This is also evident from the conclusion of the police analysis that has been carried out. This proposal will thus release resources in the police that can be used for regular police work. The proposal will facilitate the deployment of additional resources in the event of major natural disasters. The examination of all cases in one responsible body will ensure uniform treatment and contribute to increased legal certainty for each victim. The legislative proposal further states that the circle of the beneficiaries is extended from the owner only to the landowners and other rightholders who can prove to have the economic interest in, and the availability of, the damaged object. This applies regardless of whether the damage is on private or public land. Finally, I would like to mention that, overall, the bill will mean administrative savings of about 11 million. kr annually compared to today’s scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4606	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4612	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4853	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4863	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4914	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 reads: ‘The government asks the government to present legislative proposals for compulsory use of children’s homes in the hearing of children under 18 years of age.’ Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government asks the government to launch the planned scope study of children exposed to violence for better and more continuous statistics on violence and abuse against children, including children as witnesses to violence.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4938	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the investigation into civil servants of the police, with special competence for children, who undertake adequate investigation training, interrogation and witness psychology, criminal law and criminal proceedings, could constitute a future resource as judges at the children’s houses, as part of shortening the waiting time for judicial hearings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e4991	The vote is first taken on the vote on the vote to V. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5006	A vote shall be taken on the adoption of the opinion to I, II, III, IV, VI and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5031	In the votes we've now had, we've been 105 who's voted, and we're going to be 103. There are some sharp votes later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5037	The President then asks that the prisoners count the number of representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5040	The working party has 33, which we're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5045	All right. Then the President hopes that we have the right number of representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5053	In this case, one proposal has been put forward, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to submit a proposal in which the period of limitation in the event of abrogation and trafficking in human beings is counted from the date of 18 years of age.» [[§139 of the Criminal Code of 1902]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5059	Audun Lysbakken – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5062	There is an inaccuracy in the text of the proposal, which is why we are drawing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5067	Proposal No. 1, from SV, is subtracted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5108	The left has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5121	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Left wants to vote against. The voting boards showed that there were 92 votes in favour and 5 votes against the law's title and the law as a whole. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.40.14]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5132	I did not vote in the event of a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5137	In favour of the 93 vote, against the 5 vote, would it be right if the representative did not vote? Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5151	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5159	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Bård Vegar Solhjell, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked in the draft State budget for 2015 to increase Item 70, Chapter 440 of the Ministry of Justice by DKK 10 million for the pilot project of humanitarian action aimed at EEA citizens.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to increase the total share of the EEA quota allocated to measures for Roma people and to increase the proportion allocated to Roma people in Bulgaria and Romania from 10 p.m. until 20 pst. in the next period.» The Central Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5184	I registered the vote for the proposals, I should have voted against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5190	It's recorded. The number of votes in favour shall then be 94 votes against and 10 votes against. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to extend the mandate of the pilot project with humanitarian measures targeting EEA citizens to include advisory actions and longer-term projects, such as labour-oriented actions.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5246	That's right over A. The right, the Progress Party and the Central Party are behind the vote, so the President assumes that the other parties want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5261	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the same parties as in the previous vote want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5274	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5280	Then it's fixed up. Then the number of votes should be 55 votes in favour and 49 votes against. The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. It goes over B. Here, too, the Right Party and the Central Party are behind the vote, so the President assumes that the other parties want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5300	It goes over C.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5429	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e5439	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6339	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6349	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6444	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6454	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6521	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6531	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6539	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Jenny Klinge, Heidi Greni and Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting to set a lower age limit of 18 for non-medically justified male circumcision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6667	The opinion was adopted by 94 votes to 2. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.50.33]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6672	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6680	The title of the law and the law as a whole were passed by 100 to 2 votes. The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.50.59]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6739	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6749	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6757	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Tove Karoline Knutsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 4, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 5, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party proposals No. 6-8, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a binding timetable for the extension of user-led personal assistance, at the latest in the context of the 2015 government budget.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a regulatory support for the right to user-driven personal assistance.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 63 on patient and user rights shall be replaced by the following: § 2-1 d. Right to user-controlled personal assistance Persons with a long-standing and high need for personal assistance under the Health and Care Services Act § 3-2, first paragraph, No. 6(b) has the right to have such services organised as user-led personal assistance. The right includes relief measures under Section 3-2, first paragraph, No. 6(d). Long-term needs referred to in the first subparagraph shall mean needs beyond 2 years. A high need in the first subparagraph shall mean a service requirement of at least 10 hours per week. However, users with service needs of less than 10 hours a week are entitled to receive services organised as user-led personal assistance unless the municipality can demonstrate that such organisation will significantly increase the cost of the municipality.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6807	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the following changes to the provisions of the Patient and User Rights Act on the right to user-controlled personal assistance [[NS 8435]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6843	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget with a binding spring 2015 escalation plan containing concrete improvements to the BPA scheme beyond the government’s proposals, including an assessment of lower hourly limits, the purpose of an upper age limit of 67 years and the inclusion of night and point services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6860	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that persons who are currently entitled to night and point services maintain this right temporarily until they have been adequately informed of the consequences for those persons of the legal provisions on the right to user-led personal assistance.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make an assessment of costs and arrangements for an extension of the BPA scheme, which includes night and point services, at the latest in the context of proposals for the 2015 government budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the municipalities have the documentary responsibility for any refusal of the right to BPA between 25 and 32 hours and that, in the event of disagreement, the municipality will take a decision and bring the case before the county council for review.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6926	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6936	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6944	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Kjersti Top on behalf of the Centre Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, by Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left and the Left Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘Prop. 72 L is returned to the government.» [[2013-2014]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the appointment of a LEAN Commission to review current journalism and training needs on the road towards a standardised digital core journal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e6981	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on health records and the processing of health data, the first paragraph of Section 11 shall be replaced by the following: The King of the Council of State may, in accordance with the conditions laid down in Section 8, provide for the processing of data in health records in which the name, birth number and other direct person-identifying characteristics are to be processed to the extent necessary to achieve the purpose of the register. [[Health Register Act]] The data subject has the right to oppose registration.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e7000	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In the law on the processing of health data in the provision of health care, Section 2 (f) is replaced by the following: (f) consent: a voluntary, explicit and informed declaration by the data subject that he or she accepts the processing of health data concerning himself or herself.’ 3 reads: «In the law on the processing of health data in the provision of health care, Section 17 is replaced by the following: § 17 Express consentAccess to health data in treatment-oriented health records across establishments may only be given subject to the express consent of the data subject. [[patient journal law]] [[patient journal law]] The patient or user must agree that 1. health information in a treatment-oriented health register established on the basis of Sections 8 to 10 is made available to health professionals according to Section 19, cf. §§ 25 and 45 and the Patient and User Rights Act § 5-3, 2. Information on paid self-interests in relation to decision on a free card and reimbursement is automatically recorded in the system established under Section 11, and 3. Health data is recorded or processed in other ways in the national nuclear records established under Section 13. The rules on consent competence in the Patient and User Rights Act §§ 4-3 to 4-7 apply mutatis mutandis. §§ 17-33 of the Prop. Bill. [[2013-2014]] 72 L becomes §§ 18–34.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e7050	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and come back to the Storting in an appropriate manner with proposals on how to commit private actors with the right to automatic state funding of patient treatment, without having entered into an agreement with the public, on the following points: – provide good and complete health data to public records – contribute to the realisation of the ambition of ‘one citizen – one journal’ – have the safe handling of patient records – have safe and operational interaction with the rest of the healthcare system The Government is also asked to investigate who should be the controller when treating patients at the public expense of the said scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e8190	It is first voted on A, § 10. The Left and the Left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e8205	It goes over B and the rest of A. The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e8219	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects that the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e8233	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e8241	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Stefan Heggelund on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, proposal No. 3, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e8251	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on popular protection is amended as follows: Paragraphs 19-9(a) are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e8283	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the consequences of non-discrimination between persons admitted to psychiatric hospital wards and those admitted to somatic hospital wards, so that both patient groups are exempted from the reduction of their benefits from popular protection. The Government is requested to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, with an assessment of total, possibly partial, non-discrimination.» The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10236	The vote will begin with the motions for resolutions on I-XIII, XV-XIX, XXI and XXII.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10247	It is voted over XIV §§ 16-12, 17-14, 18-9, 19-22, 20-23 and XX § 12-20. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10261	It goes over the rest of the XIV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10272	Alternatively, between XX § 12-7 and § 12-8 and proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Lav 16 December 2011 No 59 on amendments to the Law on Social Security translated into full-time annual income if it is more favourable for that person. [[date of action]] The employment relationship must be documented with a contract of employment that contains a clearly specified proportion of the job and the starting date. Income after disability is determined according to the income he or she is assumed to be able to obtain by exploiting his or her residual income. Income before and after disability is adjusted in accordance with changes in the basic amount. As income according to the paragraph here, all pensionable income is included, see § 3-15. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the determination of income before and after disability, including the non-recognition of certain income.» The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote for the vote. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10316	It's then voted over the rest of the XX.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10326	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10336	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10620	It shall be counted above I up to and including VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10632	During the debate, Mr Lundtigen has tabled a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘VIII The amendments in I to VI shall enter into force from 1 January 2015. The amendments under VII shall enter into force immediately.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10644	Alternatively, between VIII and the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10656	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e10666	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e11464	It is voted on over I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e11635	It shall be counted against I even III.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e11646	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e11656	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e12023	It's voted on A.II. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e12038	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e12049	It is said to be over H. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e12063	It is added over B, C, D, E, F and G.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e12073	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e12083	Law decisions will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget. It's going to wrestle over you.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e12990	It's over A and B.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e13002	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e13012	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e13377	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e13387	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e13443	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e13453	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e14450	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e14460	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e14468	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Stine Renate Håheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Stine Renate Håheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to await the winding-up of the local liability authorisation system and to review whether a local authorisation system can be established in the light of, inter alia, the legislation of other EEA countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e14495	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish a State authorisation system for undertakings in the field of liability’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e14510	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Planning and Building Act is amended as follows: New Sections 20-4 are replaced by: Sections 20-4 Measures to be registered in the municipality and which do not require application and authorisation The following measures are to be registered in the municipality: Paragraph 29-4, first paragraph, does not apply. Measures registered under this provision shall not be subject to an appeal. No appeal may be brought against the decision of the building authority to make an application. The Ministry shall prescribe the measures covered by this provision.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e15595	It is quoted in Section 1-6, second paragraph, §20-2, §20-4, §20-5, §21-7, §23-3, fifth paragraph. The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e15610	It is contested by the second and fifth paragraphs of § 21-3 and the first paragraph of § 21-4. The Labour Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e15625	So it goes over the rest of I as well as II and III. The President shall draw attention to a correction under II. the following sentence is deleted: ‘1. From the date of entry into force of the Act, the following laws shall be amended:»;
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e15640	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e15650	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e16009	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e16019	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-16.ana.ud1585e16093	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
