ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e55	The representatives of Kåre Simensen, Martin Henriksen, Arild Grande and Jorodd Asphjell, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the General Assembly of the Council of Europe in Cyprus of the Workers' Party on the leave of the representative Anniken Huitfeldt Tuesday 13 May to give talks at St. Cathrine's College in Oxford from the representative Roy Steffensen on health leave from 13 May to 26 May from the Central Party Group on health leave for the representative Jenny Klinge from 13 May until further from the Group of the Progressive Party on health leave for the representative Per Sandberg from 13 May until 26 May until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on welfare leave for the representative Sonja Mandt from 13 May until 15 May from the Group of the Parties on welfare leave for the representative Per Sandberg from 13 May until 13 May until further from the Workers' Group on welfare leave for the representative Sonja Mandt from 13 May until 15 May until 15 May from the Group of the Parties on welfare leave for the representative Per Sandberg on health leave for the representative from 13 May to 13 May on behalf of the representative Marit Arnstad Permitter on Tuesday 13 May and until further from the Working Party on welfare leave for the representative Sonja Mand from 13 May to 15 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For East-Agder counties: Line Vennesland 13 May and Lene Langemyr 13 and 14 May For Akershus County: Are Health 13. May For More and Romesdal County: Geir Inge Lien 13 May and until further notice For Oslo County: Une Aina Bastholm 13. May For the Province of Rogaland: Kari Raustein 13-23. May For the North-Trundellag County: Bjørn Arild Gram 13. May For the South-Trundellag counties: Little Harriet Sandaune May 13th and until further notice For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg 13.–15. May Line Vennesland, Lene Langemyr, Are Health, Geir Inge Lien, Une Aina Bastholm, Kari Raustein, Bjørn Arild Gram, Lill Harriet Sandaune and Steinar Gullvåg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e194	For the purposes of this discussion, there are the items on agenda No. Sixty-eight. We are now facing a long debate with extensive and partly complicated voting. In order to prepare the vote as best as possible, the President will propose that a break be made this afternoon in the Grand Duchy meeting, so that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee can carry out a timely review of the voting arrangements before we go to voting. It will ensure that we have the right decisions, by providing the members of the Committee with a better basis for correcting the representatives of the respective parties in the vote. The President will therefore propose that we take a break at the Stortinget meeting at noon. 3 p.m. and that it is aimed at restoring the meeting approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 16th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It will normally be called when the meeting is scheduled to resume. At the request of the Committee, the President shall propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 1 to 6 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e265	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 6 hours and 15 minutes and that the debate be organised as follows: The rapporteurs for document 12:30 and document 12:31 are given 30 minutes each. The rapporteurs for the four remaining cases are given 10 minutes each. Then speaking time is allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Right 45 minutes, Advance Party 40 minutes, Christian People's Party 30 minutes, Central Party 30 minutes, Left 30 minutes, Socialist Left Party 30 minutes and Green Party 20 minutes. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines limited to seven lines with replies following submissions by the rapporteurs and the main speakers of each party group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e276	Everything starts somewhere – with something. Often the beginning is the finest. The starting point is and should be the prerequisite for the continuation, and that's something we should always have on the road. The first word written on the first draft of the Constitution was «freedom». Now, when we're going to review the biggest revision of the Constitution, our follow-up question should be, To whom? Paragraph 110(c) of the Constitution, which is now proposed to become Section 92, states: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to respect and safeguard human rights. Detailed rules for the implementation of the Treaties shall be laid down by law.’;» What is a better way to secure human rights than to bring them forward, up and into our Constitution? What is a better way to respect human rights than to take them home? The task of human rights in the Constitution is to ensure that everyone, regardless of background, is equal to the right to freedom that cannot be enjoyed before being free from oppression and distress, or has the resources to participate in the same line with others. None of the proposals are intended to change the legal state of the day. On the other hand, they will protect about something for tomorrow. The politicians of the future are just as free as we are to take wise or stupid priorities. Constitutional changes do not set limits on politics, but they set limits for politicians – not those who want to use power, but those who want to abuse it. We have been given that opportunity by the Human Rights Committee and Inge Wohnung. I think we have to use that opportunity – not because it's soon May 17th, not because the Constitution is 200 years old, but because it's the only right thing to do. The rule of law shall include, inter alia: ensuring citizens' rights to freedom of expression, fair trial, participation in free and secret elections and freedom from slavery and oppression. It must ensure freedom and democracy. It is an overall committee that believes that the Human Rights Committee, chaired by Inge Wohnning, has provided the Stortinget with a good basis for strengthening human rights in the Norwegian Constitution. The changes proposed are necessary to make the Constitution what it is supposed to be and has evolved to be through its 200 years: a legal, political and symbolic document that protects citizens from abuse, guarantees them freedom and security now and in the future, and contains the main features of our state. There is an overall committee that believes that the Constitution should ensure a balance between the stability to be represented by the Constitution and the flexibility that must also allow greater scope for ensuring the individual's freedom, equality and human dignity and that it is also safeguarded in decision-making processes in the future. Access to participation in free and secret elections and an undisputed right to participate in the social debate are essential for a democratic state. Protection against arbitrary imprisonment, punishment and torture and the right to have its case tried before an independent court are likewise crucial for whether a state can be called democratic, and whether a democratic state can be called a democratic rule of law. For the Labour Party, it is impossible to define democracy as real unless the rule of law also has a social responsibility. I think we should take that responsibility. That's why we believe that the civil and political rights are not real without certainty that everyone can enjoy them. That is why we have also chosen – and we will come back to that later in the debate – to support a number of economic, social and cultural rights in order to ensure that what I am now going to explain applies to everyone. There is an overall committee that believes it is right to secure the civil and political human rights of the future and to make them visible in our constitution. I'm glad. It is particularly important to stress that it is the responsibility of the State to ensure, protect and guarantee human rights. The Committee considers that the visibility of human rights is improved by bringing together a separate chapter — Chapter E — and agrees with the proposal to establish that chapter in a so-called human rights catalogue. In its work, the Human Rights Committee weighed different considerations against each other – the spirit of the Constitution, the legal state of the day, the relationship between law and politics and the challenges of lawmaking. Their conclusion was clear: the considerations and arguments that speak against the proposed changes, say the Human Rights Committee is not good enough not to update the Constitution, so that it reflects what is actually the legal state in Norway, and brings it into the pact with the rest of Europe and secures our rights for tomorrow. We'll talk a little bit more about the proposals. As I mentioned, the Committee agrees with the Human Rights Committee's proposal to continue the Constitution § 110c of a new Section 92 as the introduction to the new Human Rights Chapter. When the main objective of the whole constitutional audit is to secure the position of human rights again, it is important that the individual provisions contribute to that very thing. The majority of the Committee, all except the Right Party and the Green Party, believe that it has an independent impact on the enforcement of human rights by the courts that the Constitution obliges the state bodies to respect these rights. The majority will ensure that there are no misunderstandings as to which international human rights are ranked by the Constitution and therefore consider it important to refer to international conventions. This will of course not change the legal state of the day, and treaties that we ratify in the future will still have to go through the procedure of the Basic Law § 112. On this basis, the majority approves option 2 B, so that the provision reads as follows: «§ 92 State authorities shall respect and safeguard human rights as defined in this Constitution and in the Treaties on Human Rights binding on Norway.» Freedom shall never be able to be stolen from anyone. If it is to be deprived of someone, it must be allowed to do so. The right to be free and secure that it is not taken from you arbitrarily is a fundamental human right. Detention can take place not only through imprisonment but also through other interventions against individuals. Psychiatric health protection is such an example. Article 5 of the ECHR lists the grounds on which freedom can be deprived. The Committee considers that citizens are better protected against arbitrary detention by continuing to be consistent and general. There shall be no abuse of power, and freedom can be deprived of a citizen only if the authorities have legal authority and there is proportionality between objectives and means – sentence – so simple and so difficult for many states to comply with. There is an overall committee which therefore believes that the First sentence of Section 99 of the Constitution should be extended to cover other forms of detention. To this end, the Committee, acting on a proposal from the proposers B, proposes a new section 94 to replace the following provision: ‘No one must be imprisoned or deprived of freedom by any other means except in legal cases and in the manner prescribed by the laws. Detention must be necessary and must not constitute disproportionate interference. The defendant shall be brought before a court of law as soon as possible. Others who have been deprived of their freedom may have their detention tried before the courts without undue delay. Those who have unwarrantedly arrested or illegally held a prisoner are responsible for that person.’ For the same reason, the Committee considers that the principle of legality should be enshrined in its own paragraph. The Human Rights Committee has proposed a new Section 113 of the Basic Law on Legality. To this end, the Committee endorses the proposal for Section 113, Option 1 B, so that the paragraph will be replaced by the following: «Actual action by the authorities towards each person must be based on law.» There is an overall committee that considers the Constitution to confirm that all people have the same right to freedom and equal rights and opportunities. Of course, it can be experienced, but that experience today can be the greatest enemy of value tomorrow. That is why it must be protected. In meetings with the courts, it is difficult to imagine justice without predictability. Justice requires justice. If it does not exist, the law does not exist. In order for citizens to have confidence in the state, it must be a prerequisite for predictability. A democratic court exists only if it is independent. The principle of the right to a fair trial has been expressed several times in the law, but there is an overall committee that considers it important to make that principle visible in the Constitution. It's not good enough that it's just like this because it's always been like this. There is a fair trial because it is the only way for a rule of law that wants to call itself democratic, and it should be protected against the possible wish of future authorities to bring down the rule of law. To this end, the Committee endorses the proposal for a new Section 95 Option 2(B) so that the paragraph is replaced by the following: ‘Every person has the right to have his or her case decided by an independent and impartial court within a reasonable period of time. The procedure shall be fair and public. However, the Court of First Instance may close the hearing if the private life of the parties or the overriding public interest makes it necessary. The authorities of the State shall ensure the independence and impartiality of the courts and of the courts.’.» It's just the one who's guilty, who's going to be convicted, and it's just the one who's known after a trial, who's not innocent. The Committee considers that the presumption of innocence should be enshrined in fundamental law. Penalties and convictions shall take place only once for the same offence. An overall committee believes that citizens should be assured of this by the Constitution – not only in order to avoid this happening but also in order to establish predictability and the confidence in the rule of law that we depend on everyone. Citizens need to know what happens if a law is broken, not least in order to know the consequences of their own actions and get the opportunity to move on with their lives. Little or nothing is perceived as unfair as double punishment. It feels like it's random. If we can't trust those who are going to prosecute lawbreakers, who are we going to trust? The concept of criminal law in the first paragraph of Section 96 of the Basic Law is, according to Norwegian law, somewhat different from the equivalent concept in Article 6(1) of the EMK. 1st@item: inlistbox The human rights committee's proposal for the new Section 96 third paragraph is based on a pre-requisite that the EMK and the EMD's understanding should be based on that paragraph. Two different terms of punishment in the same provision may create uncertainty, not least in the courts, and it is unfair to suggest that there are two different interpretations of the same concept. The Committee has therefore decided, with the agreement of the Presidency, to defer the examination of the proposal to the third paragraph of Section 96 in order to clarify the question of interpretation. However, with regard to the proposal for the fourth paragraph of Section 96, the Committee agrees with the Human Rights Committee and insists that the second paragraph of Section 96 is replaced by the following: ‘Every person has the right to be considered innocent until proven guilty under the law.’ The Committee further concludes that the fourth paragraph of Section 96 is replaced by the following: ‘No one can be judged to dispose of immovable property or total property unless the values are used for, or are dividends from, a criminal offence.’ The Committee also needs to be informed of several aspects of the question of interpretation relating to the proposal on the provisions of Section 114 and, on the same grounds as above, has also decided to suspend the examination of XXIV in the proposal under the Rules of Procedure. The Committee shall return to its opinion at a later date. Did the President know that young people believe that the Constitution is more up-to-date and reflects today's society more than it actually does? According to the media survey this year, most of the young people believe that the principle of equality and non-discrimination are already fundamental. It's really not that weird, because there's a very established value in Norwegian society. It is not an independent argument in itself to accept the proposal for a new §98, but it shows how established that understanding is in our society. The Constitution should reflect its time. What are the consequences of that paragraph? It is that legislators are not allowed to grant privileges to individuals or groups in society. After all, privileges are not the same as quotas or positive discrimination. If a group has been categorically discriminated against or has had fewer opportunities to achieve its rights than another, it is contrary to State responsibility to adjust that bias by using positive discrimination. The majority of the Committee considers that examples of grounds for discrimination should not be listed. The Committee considers that the provision stands and is not misunderstanding. Innocent discrimination shall not occur. By not listing grounds for discrimination, we avoid omitting what we do not know today as a basis for discrimination. The majority therefore argues that the Constitution repeals § 95 and § 103 and that the first paragraph of option B is replaced by the following: ‘Everyone is equal to the law.’ The second paragraph of Section 98 is replaced by the following: ‘No human being must be subjected to indecent or disproportionate discrimination.’ When it comes to the proposal on the Basic Law § 99, the majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party consider that the Church Agreement and the first sentence of § 116 of the present day well protect freedom of thought, religion and conscience. The majority do not want the new proposed paragraph to be interpreted and therefore want to maintain the current provision. In order to be able to rely on the state, the authorities and the politicians, they must accept and dare to be challenged. The eternal and simplest test of democracy is passed or strengthened by the ability of the rulers to withstand the inauguration of opposition. Last night, Norway visited Pussy Riot, the activist group that showed how far a country can manage that responsibility. Politicians who cannot or will not be challenged are not politicians. They're just rulers. Opposition protection must be safeguarded by any ruler who wishes to call himself democratic. Freedom of association and assembly was not an obvious right when the Constitution was written in 1814. It is today, and it should also be for the future. This provision will resist potential totalitarian thoughts. The Committee considers that the freedom of association and assembly is closely linked to the development and maintenance of democracy and therefore makes reference to the proposal of the Committee to repeal the second paragraph of Section 99 and Section 101, and that new Section 101 is replaced by the following: ‘Every person has the right to form, join and withdraw from associations; including trade unions and political parties. All can meet in peaceful assemblies and demonstrations. The Government does not have the right to use military power against citizens without legal interference, unless a assembly disturbs public order and does not immediately dissolve after the legal provisions relating to rebellion have been read out to the assembly of civil sovereignty three times in a clear and loud manner.» Your privacy is yours, your privacy is yours – the state's task in this regard is to take care of it, respect it and leave it alone. The Data Protection Commission, in its recommendation, unanimously concluded with a recommendation on the fundamental law on the right to privacy and privacy. The peace of privacy is enshrined in international human rights conventions and in the Universal Declaration, and the Committee believes that we should give an independent paragraph. Technology development is a good thing, but it takes a lot more of us to make sure it's not abused. In a world where GPS transmitters can be used to monitor someone illegally, it requires politicians to provide privacy with special protection. In addition to protecting against State interference, the link with other rights means that the right to privacy and privacy is now enshrined in fundamental law. With that justification, the members of the Right, Workers' Party and the Advance Party retable § 102 Option 3 B, so that the paragraph reads as follows: ‘Everyone has the right to respect for his or her privacy and family life, home and communication. No house search shall take place except in criminal cases. State authorities shall ensure the protection of personal integrity.’;» 17 May has long been seen as a day for children. Now they get their own day to celebrate the foundation of their own rights. For the first time, the children’s independent rights will be formulated in the Constitution – 200 years too late. Common to all of us is that we've been children once, we've all been dependent on others to be safe and free and get our rights respected or broken. Not all special groups can get their own way, but the dependence of children on others to live free and secure lives means that they must be protected specifically, and a state that does not take special responsibility for its children does not take particular responsibility for its future. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre retable Section 104, first paragraph, Option 1 B, which will read as follows: ‘Children are entitled to respect for their human dignity. They have the right to be heard on questions relating to themselves, and their opinion shall be weighted in accordance with their age and development.» It is an overall committee which considers the principle that decisions relating to children should take account of the best interests of children and extend beyond parental responsibility, residence and association. The weight to be given to the best interests of the child must be based on the extent to which the child is affected and on the seriousness of the decision. The Committee retables Section 104, second paragraph, Option 3(B): ‘In actions and decisions relating to children, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental.’; The child’s right to privacy applies regardless of where the child lives and where the child is staying. State authorities must also have a duty to provide for legislation and enforcement which can best protect the child from exploitation, violence and abuse. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Environmental Party The Green Party retables Section 104, third paragraph, option 2 B: ‘Children have the right to protection of their personal integrity. State authorities shall facilitate the development of the child, including ensuring that the child is provided with the necessary economic, social and health protection.»; The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party, also refer to the proposal for a new Section 103 and refer to the following: «The authorities of the Member States shall take measures to protect the personal integrity of the child, including the protection against violence, abuse, sexual exploitation and other similar conditions which may harm the child.»; Children are particularly vulnerable to such abuse. There is an overall committee which considers that freedom of movement should be afforded constitutional protection. It has been confirmed a right for everyone with legal residence in a country to move freely within the country's borders, travel from there and come back again. The Committee concludes Section 106, first paragraph, Option 1 B and second paragraph, Option 1 B, so that the paragraph reads as follows: «Every person legally resident in the State may move freely within the territory of the State and choose his or her place of residence there. No one may be refused leave the State unless this is necessary for the purpose of effective prosecution or for the performance of a duty of protection. Norwegian nationals may not be refused access to the State.’ Nothing stands above the people when they gather in election. It is the most powerful plank of democracy. That the principle of free and secret elections is not enshrined in the Constitution is strange, and finally it must be written down for the future, so that it becomes extra difficult to weaken our democracy. The provision agreed by the Committee into new Section 49 reads as follows: ‘The representatives of the Grand Duchy shall be elected by free and secret elections.’ The Human Rights Committee also proposes that some basic provisions be repealed, partly because they are no longer necessary, but also because the Constitution has a separate chapter on human rights. It is an overall committee which recommends any proposal for an end. I also refer to a more detailed justification for this in Document 16, the Human Rights Committee's report, and the Inn. 186 S for 2013–2014. The Constitution shall not and cannot give us the answer to the challenges of the future. It will also be the task of politicians to do so in the future – to solve political problems. But there are some things that the politicians of the future should not have the power to do: steal the freedom and security of those who come after us. That's why we now want more human rights into the Constitution – not to change something today, but to ensure something for tomorrow, not to set limits on politics, but to set limits on abuse of power. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e454	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e457	The representative Christensen spoke warmly about all the dishes that are in the Constitution and that are to be included in the Constitution. At the same time, the Workers' Party, together with the Greens' Greens' Environment Party, wants to introduce a new paragraph to the Constitution, which could set aside the largest parts of the same Constitution, in a state of crisis, in order to secure democracy, as it is called. Rightly, one today has an illegitimate constitutional right that has very rarely been used. The great majority of people in this room – and also the Left – are warning against this is that by introducing such a derogation paragraph, one could lower the mental threshold in order to benefit from that type of derogation authority, and that one already classifies the majority of the Basic Law, which, a lot, could be set aside. There is one reason why, among other things: The Association of Lawyers has warned so strongly that one should take that paragraph. My question is: Does the Workers' Party believe that, for example, a state of crisis that it experienced on 22 July will be a case in which a new § 116 can be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e466	The answer to that is no, and I would refer to the Human Rights Committee's report, where they are discussing just this. Bringing forward on 22 July 2011 as an example where it did not happen is an example of a situation that should not be interpreted in that way. The Labour Party believes that, if the Constitution is to be waived, the Constitution itself is to determine it. That's why we're a little less negative to that paragraph than what the Left is, but the Human Rights Committee has discussed the July 22nd event and raised it as a special and special example of not being such a situation where the Constitution can be waived.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e473	Thanks for the answer. Then I'm a little interested in what situations the Labour Party thinks that this paragraph, which they propose together with the Green Party, will be useful for, how it might change the legal state of the day, and whether one isn't the least concerned about the change that the special signs of fear could occur, at least mentally. Because if one is now in a situation where one has a regime that is not as democratic as it is today in Norway, and where the rulers want to set aside fundamental rights, it would be improperly easier to do so if one has a clear constitutional clause to rely on, instead of resorting to illegal emergency rights. In any case, I'm afraid it'll be a situation where it's easier to set aside basic dishes. Which situations are there, for example: a call a state of crisis? What does the Labour Party put in the word ‘crisis’, and what should a government put in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e480	Luckily, there is a great deal to consider at all times — not the courts, not the random. However, a state of crisis is also one of the types of situations to be addressed by this provision. It has been discussed in the Human Rights Committee. There are two different alternative ways to deal with war and crisis situations – either to assume that they will not occur and hope best, or to secure for the future and with such a provision to ensure that it is the elected assembly that decides whether to derogate from the Constitution in a state of war or crisis. Then it's up to the politicians today to decide whether it's the Constitution that's going to formulate this, or whether it's going to be up to the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e485	I'm just following up the question that the representative of Sveinung Rotevatn had, because I noticed that the case rapporteur answered the last question, that it was the Stortinget that could at any time put the Constitution aside. I just want to clarify how this is described in section 116.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e490	My answer was a reference to the politicians who are going to take that decision and interpret it. The provision provides a recipe for defining such a state of crisis – that interpretation and perception should lie with the Stortinget. It is not for the courts to take that decision, and it is for the Constitution itself to state whether it should be waived or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e495	I can't understand this. I am trying to ask where it says in the provision that it is the Stortinget who is going to take the decision that in a state of crisis one can put the Constitution aside. That's what I'm asking, and that's what the representative answered the question from Rotevatn. Where in the provision does it say?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e501	It is the Stortinget that determines the content of § 116. And then it's up to always sitting big, and whoever formulates the Constitution, to say when and if it's to be waived or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e506	This is a very important provision. In fact, it's about having a constitution, and when we have a constitution and we decide to extend it, the Constitution will also stand in war, in war conditions and in crisis situations. In particular, they shall comply with the principles laid down in the Basic Law. What is stated in that paragraph is that the Constitution can also be waived by a decision. There's nothing about a big decision – that it's going through Stortinget. What the representative here has explained, and what the Labour Party is all about, is that you can set the Basic Law aside when a crisis occurs in Norway. But that's why we have the Constitution – that it should also stand in crisis situations. I ask the last question one more time: I can't see that that provision is such that you have to come to the Stortinget to get the decision of the Stortinge – that by a two-thirds majority decision you can put the Constitution aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e513	I feel that this is more a comment than a question. I would rather direct the attention of the representative, Raja, to the comments that we have written and that will also be dealt with as a preliminary to this provision. It describes inexorably how this is to be done, and who is to take these decisions – according to the position of the Human Rights Committee, which has been submitted to the Committee and where this has also been investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e518	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e521	The Constitution is surrounded by the greatest goodwill of most. We can see that in May. But it is at the same time this goodwill that can ultimately choke it – because one does not prioritize the function of the Constitution as a foundation law, as a detailed special law for the cooperation between state bodies, as the law of the rule of law, as the law of the rules of democracy, and as the law of the individual's rights of freedom. It is the consistent respect for these foundations that has given its status to the Constitution. Without the law having had real meaning, and without it being observed concretely in everyday life, it would not have symbolic power. It has its symbolic power because its provisions have had legal force, not vice versa. I may not reveal a great secret when I say that in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs it has reflected different legal views. Actually, it is that legal policy should not have so much to do with party politics, but we still see that it has a part to do with it. It is my view that the Stortinget should discuss legal issues to a greater extent, such as:What is appropriate for legislation? What effect does legislation have? Does it have the long-term effects that we had in mind when we passed the laws? What is good law quality at all? This constitutional process has also given us a legal debate, but it has been very difficult to distinguish it from – let's say – ordinary party political competition. I believe that at all events, in our usual legislative work, we should have more clarifying legal debates. Actually, it's a shame that we don't have a more settled legal policy now that we've thrown ourselves into the Constitution. Good law quality can be discussed on the basis of criteria that are, in fact, completely independent of what is considered to be the content of the legal framework. Examples of such criteria may be whether the law is suitable to achieve its purpose, whether it has legitimacy, and whether it has been a broad and thorough preparation of the case. There may be questions as to whether the legislation serves a real need, whether it should only be used to codify the unwritten right, or whether it is intended to promote a particular development. There may be questions as to whether it is the answer to current conflicts, whether it provides precise and clear answers, and whether it is formulated flexibly to take account of different situations that may arise under changing circumstances. Questions can be asked if there is too much legislation at all. Society has become more complex, but the number of regulations and text related to each rule is increasing even more. The sum of legislative activity leads to a lack of transparency and a sense of powerlessness, even for those who have an interest in being directly involved in the rules of which they are directly affected. I think we can say that there has been an inflationary pressure, also driven by the belief that detailed management provides better control. In the meeting with the realities, the ideal ideas of the laws are put to the test. When public authorities, e.g. a municipality, violates the Working Environment Act 30 000 times in order to ensure that caregivers present, it is understandable that the consideration of patients must outweigh formal legal compliance. Nevertheless, it is harmful to the attitude of the law as the norm of conduct that a number of laws are either not intended to be taken seriously or are virtually impossible to comply with. The trend towards symbolic legislation is increasing, with broad-based descriptions of purposes of a more or less political nature and without operational provisions building on the achievement of the objective in a credible way. The health and social sector is full of examples of this. Within the sector itself, doubts arise as to whether this actually produces satisfactory results in the form of more and better services. In addition to the numerous violations of rights arising and which weaken the trust in the system, the business is also bound to focus on formal compliance with legal requirements. Similarly, rights-fixing can happen entirely randomly, so that with formal rights they are constantly ahead of groups without the same formal status, but with real needs that may be at least equal. Furthermore, reference is made to the Culture Act of 29 June 2007, as a school example of a law that is not suitable for having any concrete effects. It served exclusively as a political marker, and it has hardly promoted culture in Norway. Good legislative practice is to describe the legal practices that are intended to be complied with as a consequence of the established norm and which are realistically to expect others to live up to. At the same time, there is a conscious and realistic relationship between objectives and instruments, and conscious priorities have been made at the expense of the less important. An ambition at this constitutional anniversary has been to enter fundamental human rights in order to update the Constitution at this point. On 18 June 2009, the then Presidency gave a selection – the Wage Committee – in order to propose a limited revision of the Constitution with the inclusion of central human rights. The Committee presented its report in December 2011. The disagreement on the report does not concern disagreement on the many benefits it deals with, but what is perceived as central rights and what compliance they can have. A good start could be to demand that what is written in the Constitution is actually rights, not political markings or signalling. Let me start with the central rights -- the ones we agree on. Human rights are fundamental requirements for the position of the individual regardless of the legal system. It is not disputed that these requirements include respect for and protection of life, body, freedom and security. The right to free thought, faith and expression, private and family life, property and fair justice and administration are among the most important. The rights are universal and indivisible. One side of this is that they apply to everyone everywhere, regardless of whether they're statutory or not. This is what makes them universal. It in turn means that the detection of human rights violations is never interference with the internal affairs of other countries. The Irish philosopher Seamus Heaney expressed the pre-political and constituent nature of human rights as follows: « the roots of human rights lie deeper than the world of human covers. [[...]] They are more profound than contracts between governments and have their origin in the metaphysical. How else, indeed, could the document enshrine words like «dignity» and «conscience», words that stream against the bonds of legal definition and political category?» It is common to point out that the relationship between individual and state power is the central one. This is due to the particular nature of the state as the organisation of human relations within a defined geographical area, with its monopoly of power use and strong actual status. A modern view of human rights is based on a reduction of the community's value if the individual rights are not respected. It also means that the rights protect not only against state power but also against private exercise of power. In the anniversary year, it is natural to underline the historical and legal philosophical context of the Constitution. The principles from here have proved to be very durable, and all humane, free societies have, without exception, been based on the same basic principles as our constitution. The Member State of law shall protect human rights in general and shall provide any remedy — i.e.: the right to have their case tried before the courts. However, at the heart of the rule of law remains a requirement that rulers can only rule citizens under law. This can be explained by the idea of the social contract, where citizens have transferred power, not to the arbitrary and arbitrary will of sovereignty, but to elected representatives who are to rule on the basis of predictable legislation. The elected representatives too would break the social contract if their interference in the legal sphere of the citizens went beyond the framework. The primary task of the Constitution was, and is still today, to restrict the intervention that legislators can allow against individuals in Norway. At the same time, the Constitution sets out the values on which we are based, but it also establishes a legitimate state power that is organised on the basis of the principle of the distribution of power, lays the basis for the rule of law and governs the rules of our democracy. During the Committee's preparatory work on the amendments, it has emerged that the Constitution is of very high legal quality. Language and sentence building are simple and direct for the time being. Our time tendency to include comprehensive computations is rarely used here, and then only because it is meant to have concrete significance. The Constitution formulated general principles for the organisation of state power, but it could also be assumed that the details would be supplemented, if necessary, by ordinary law in a way that interacts with the general rule. At the same time, the Constitution is also a special law in the areas it has wanted to regulate directly — for example: in the detailed description of the division of labour and functions of the Storting and the Government. It has been claimed that human rights are less legal and more discretionary and ‘political’ than other parts of the law. However, there is no recognised legal theory. On the other hand, the concept of ‘right’ is under pressure. In the public debate, rights are often claimed, while in reality interests are understood. In order for an interest to be a universal right, it must result from a position recognised by public law or from a right conferred by contract. The function of the Constitution is to underline the fundamental principles of law that we can gather about in Norway. The requirement for a two-thirds majority of Constitutional Decisions is not only to read as a barrier to rapid changes, but also to ensure that these provisions bring together a broad set of elements. Thus, the Constitutional Council will adapt established principles to new conditions, not to change the principles. Reforms and new rights should be governed by ordinary law. A certain inflationary pressure in the form of broad and vague value formulas is to be found in the review of the constitutional amendments to achieve symbolic effects rather than legal ones. Such a legislative technique creates a lack of clarity for the reader of the law as to whether there are real rights on which to build or whether there are less binding political objectives that one would like to see realized, but where it is always up to the state authorities to decide when and whether to achieve the objective. Sometimes the ‘real’ legal norms are mixed with the ‘unreal’, e.g. in the proposal for the §§ 110 series – which otherwise receives new paragraph numbers after the revision today. There we have Sections 110 and 110a, which do not grant rights, as opposed to Section 110b, which could be relied on as a specific right clause for the individual. It reduces the understanding of the constitutional text that it cannot be read from an immediate understanding of the words, but requires considerable knowledge of the reader. Worse still, the presence of unsubstantiated political signals and markers weakens the whole of the Constitution as a legal tool. Over time, it will also have the effect of weakening the key provisions. The right has placed some emphasis on the principles for the revision of the Constitution in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Firstly, ‘Read is more’ – what can be written easily becomes clearer in the choice between buttons and more complementary text options. We support the deletion of inactive paragraphs in order to adapt the Constitution to the present and fewer new provisions where it is natural to give priority to some human rights as more fundamental than others. This is also in line with the mandate given to the Human Rights Committee in 2009. Secondly, the lowest possible ‘flake factor’ to underline the importance of the Constitution as a binding law. There are many examples of the fact that the formulations that were serious when they were adopted have lost their significance through lack of enforcement and enforcement and have ended up empty declarations. However, there are no examples of empty software declarations developing the opposite way and becoming a tangible right. This principle is also the best way to respect our current constitutional tradition. Thirdly, changes should be improvements, i.e.: respond to real needs, e.g.: clarify and clarify the rights of citizens, duties of the State, legal entities and other legal standards. In areas where ordinary legislation already meets the minimum objectives of the Constitutional proposals, it will also be very limited. Fourthly, one reason for the fundamental legislativeisation is that a clearly expressed provision would prevail over other Norwegian legislation. The legal standards included in the Constitution today are already incorporated in Norwegian law through the Human Rights Act. This means that they already have the primacy that could have been a good argument for basic law. In addition, it may also be unclear which legal source image actually reveals the majority comments behind the changes. If this is unclear, further consideration should be given to basic legislation. This means that we should refrain from basic legislative provisions that would otherwise be positive. The last and fifth we've approached this constitutional matter with, has been that codification of the current constitutional customary law is initially unproblematic. It is an advantage that all the essential rules of the Constitution are set out in the Constitution. In addition, there may be grounds for raising the question in the light of the comprehensive constitutional audit whether it is appropriate that constitutional proposals, contrary to other legislation, are based on as little legal pre-work as is currently the case. It should be ensured that future constitutional proposals are subject to more systematic processing and preparation. There has been no ordinary prior consultation process, as required by the investigative instructions for ordinary laws, and the Ministry of Trade has not been able to comment or propose the drafting of the provisions. In a number of areas, the basic questions of interpretation to be taken into account are not sufficiently problematic. There is also a lack of such a legislative review of the proposal by the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection (Ministry of Justice) routinely before the adoption of ordinary laws. Unfortunately, it may seem to be a present, eager to have a decision on constitutional changes to the anniversary of 17 May, less emphasising the requirements that would normally be imposed on the soundness and soundness of a comprehensive legislative decision. A comprehensive theme has been that the constitutional changes are not intended to change the legal state of the day, but rather to bind up to undesirable political developments later on. That was at least some of what I noticed in the posts of the representative Christensen. The proposals basically involve, precisely because they are already incorporated by the Human Rights Act, no direct change. However, the choice we make by legislating some provisions that have a direct link with the International Convention Court may have an impact. In fact, when Norway signs conventions, we, like all other countries, are given a certain national margin of discretion. In other words, enforcement agencies – let's take the European Convention on Human Rights as an example, the enforcement body is the European Court of Human Rights – will exercise judicial control, and it will be intense in terms of the core points, and be somewhat more tolerant in terms of local adaptations. By having the link to the International Convention Law through the Human Rights Act, it is the Storting that has the national discretionary margin. If we attach fundamental laws and choose to include directly central concepts from the Convention Court into the Constitution, the national margin of discretion, when put at the head, will not be disposed of by the Stortinget, but by the courts. And then you could say that it's not even certain that the courts want to have a national margin of discretion. They may be closer to developments in law internationally, and then it is the Supreme Court that decides whether or not to use the national discretionary margin at all. These may be effects that are not intended, and which I would have liked the representative Christensen to have gone a little further into. It's also a discussion we've already had in the committee for a while, so it shouldn't come as a surprise. I also recall that not all enforcement agencies have the same prestige and legal weight as the EMD, the European Court of Human Rights. There are also UN committees that may influence the legal development of ESC rights and civil and political rights in a way that is clearly outside the policy and control of the Storting. All these relationships together indicate that you are detained. If this is the case that we have already achieved the satisfactory legal state that we all boast of in society, then there is no reason to rush into the Constitution, which can actually lead to the Greatness abdicating power – from the elected body to the courts. That is what is referred to as the ‘legislative discussion’. I'll then go into the individual suggestions. It's obvious, of course, for example. in Section 92, that the State must respect human rights. We have a quite new paragraph after the state-church agreement, § 2, which just points to the interaction between international law, human rights and the Constitution. But in our orderly times, that is not enough. One must have a separate rule that the law is serious. Actually, this is superfluous. I do not take this as an example of the harmfulness of the proposal, but it does not contribute to good lawmaking, which I have stressed in the past. We agree, of course, that we should have independent courts, and as far as detention is concerned, I have nothing to add to the points made by Mr Christensen. Then we have been exposed, also because we encounter problems of a more legal nature regarding Section 97 of the current Constitution, the prohibition of retrospective laws. With regard to the Committee's agreement on the fundamental law-making of the principle of equality and non-discrimination, which we have agreed on, it is emphasised that it is not finally decided which of the majority or minority in NOU 2009 is: 14 that has been brought down by this, on the basis that the Constitution here formulates a general principle. However, it remains to be seen whether it is appropriate to legislate more closely on the individual grounds of discrimination. I can already say that I am quite comfortable with the wording we have chosen so far. Then we have also made other deviations from the Human Rights Committee. We experience that Section 16 as it is can remain standing. It is relatively new by state-church agreement. As far as data protection is concerned, we now have a provision that plays in the same division as the freedom of expression paragraph. that we have the same height of step in terms of the difficult balances between freedom of expression on the one hand and respect for the privacy of people on the other. It shall now be weighed at the same step height. It is also the system of the European Convention on Human Rights, where it is incorporated as Article 8 and Article 10 respectively. This is a clear improvement. With regard to the more specific economic, social and cultural rights, we will again say that we are starting to move on the periphery of what, according to our legal opinion, should concentrate on, because we have so much rich and good specific legislation. Otherwise, a great deal of the Biggest activity every harvest is just going to fill the content of the welfare regulations of the country. We are concerned that the Storting is what always defines and develops the welfare state through normal political processes. I would therefore like to distance myself from the pessimistic attitude of the future that there will come great after us who will not respect the content of these provisions. First, it assumes that they will break international conventions that we are already bound by, and second, it is precisely that as long as a society adheres to some reasonable economic principles, market economy, it will also have a profit to benefit from building welfare schemes. It could be said that the whole ESC chapter is based on an efficient production system, market economy, and that we have decentralised decision-making processes. That's the very basis for our well-being. Of course, it could have been tempting to include some of this in the Constitution, even though these are obvious confessions and truths. But anyway, it belongs to the political everyday life, and it belongs to the ordinary level of ordinary law. I also want to say, even though I expect that we'll get into it later, that we've remained standing by the fact that our rights can be formulated in exactly the same way in the future as they are formulated today. In fact, the supplement that was proposed, a reference to indigenous people, does not define the group differently, and the legal follow-up side is identical. At the same time, through the ILO Convention, we have been involved in including the Sami people among indigenous people, but in the context of constitutional law, it is enough to have the rights already written in. The legal advantage of keeping the wording as it is is that we can then build on the 1984 Joint Court Review, led by Carsten Smith, NOU 1984: 18. So, technically, when you can't prove that you want to change the legal state, and we've also committed ourselves internationally, that consideration should be well taken care of without having to break the connection to NOU 1984: 18. I will end by saying that a couple of the more dramatic choices that the committee has made, where we definitely deviate from the Human Rights Committee, are related to the derogation rule, which we had a little line round instead. That's right, even though «derogation» is a difficult word, it means something as simple as we shut down the Constitution in a state of crisis and war. Who this 'we' is is not defined. I don't think it results in any correctness either when the Civil and Political Rights President, Christensen's representative, said that there was something the Bigholding was doing all the time; it's not defined. The other thing that worries us is that it's a very uncertain point of entry. So you refer to war and crisis, which some people have to define. But derogation could be an idea if you were sure that it was just the derelict rules that could be decimated, but in addition, of course, we retain the national emergency law. So in reality, we get two sets of rules that allow the Constitution to be outsourced. Then we get to stick to the one code that we have, which just makes you deviate from the Constitution in times of crisis and war, in a way that can be defended from the judgment of history, and not on the basis that you have a positive basis for it. We're as concerned in the Right as the Left's representatives expressed here. So to § 115, which actually illustrates the difference in legal policy views between the Workers' Party and us, that when you promise a little too much, you may need a general emergency exit from the law, and that's what § 115 was designed for. We don't want the emergency exit, we want to be critical of what rights we write into the law, but provided that these are rights that hold, that are robust, that have to be fulfilled. Therefore, we do not need this § 115. But in the committee there was agreement to put that side for further consideration. We are also pleased that the Committee was in favour of the Right's proposal to look at the design of Section 114, which does not pose political problems, but is simply an imperfect attempt to enter into the Constitution our customary right to review the courts' right to appeal. We have to make sure that the courts do not have such a wide right of appeal that the Stortinge introduces a second chamber in legal proceedings. So here it has to do more legal work. But I do not think it is political problems that lie here; it is probably the technical thing that needs to be done better. With this, I will record Right-wing suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e633	The representative Michael Tetzschner has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e638	I feel that the Right justifies its position when it comes to economic, social and cultural rights, in two different ways. On the one hand, it is argued that these provisions do not matter, words such as ‘disney provisions’ and ‘slags’ have been used from the Right to describe them. On the other hand, they believe that it binds up too much resources for the future. Both reasons have been rejected by the Wage Committee in their discussion of the most well-established constitutional amendments dealt with by the Storting. So what reason is the right-hand side going to end up with a choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e643	You can attack a legal text because of shortcomings. It is quite possible for a legal text that it has a lack, that it does not matter, and that in other provisions it means something that is directly unlucky. We have put forward this criticism at the points where we have thought it has been harmful, and we have also pointed out that it has been inactive – that it contains some empty provisions that are inactive. Then I go back to my first post, if the representative listened to it, where I just emphasized what is good law. And it's bad lawmaking to interfere in the same law, even in the same section series, rules of rights where someone has to be read as good as they want, while others actually provide the basis for suing the state. And we're not going to have a constitution that's such that you have to hire a lawyer to tell you what rights are real, and who are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e650	I have followed the Right's argument in the committee, and I heard very clearly after when Tetzschner now spoke, and it is quite obvious to me that there are huge gaps in this argument because the Right does not consistently follow up the principle of legal understanding that Tetzschner presented here in his post. Because when they say, on the one hand, that these are political atrocities or political programme formulations that have nothing to do with the Constitution, and, on the other hand, it almost weakens, and at the same time participates in the adoption of such provisions, it clearly shows a totally inconsistent attitude. So what we're being demonstrated here is that the right argument is simply not related, to use a popular expression. And I hear what legal arguments, to use such an expression, or legal arguments that the representative Tetzschner here is trying to use to cover this fact, but nevertheless it is a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e659	Then it's time to come up with the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e662	I'm tempted to ask what was really the question, but if you interpret it in the best possible sense, I'll explain why we've dealt with economic, social and cultural rights in two areas. It concerns the rights of children and the right to education. It has something to do with it being early in life. The state must have a duty of activity and follow-up in order to ensure that everyone, regardless of their background, starts life well on the basis of a chance. I know that the Workers' Party is more concerned with equality of results, but we're concerned with probability. And this is one of the economic rights that is getting closer to the traditional freedoms. I can otherwise say that some of the things that are our objection to the fundamental law of some references to cultural life, is that there are legal definitions that are completely worthless to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e670	The proposal for a new Section 111 of the Basic Law on standard of living and health care — that is, the majority, such a paragraph as the Central Party stands behind, by giving positive freedoms to the individual, who is created through the community. The representative, Tetzschner, argues that it is wrong to include this in the Constitution, because it may provide arguments for the right-holding of specific health services through the Constitution. It's a good argument, but then it's very special that the party Right, when one comes to the concrete laws, is among the foremost to legitimize this offer through another law. What is Tetzschner's assessment of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e677	It is excellent that the representative Lundtigen reminds us that the Right is concerned with health policy. It is excellent that he also reminds us that we do not stand back from using the law to promote social policy progress. But we are then using ordinary legislation in connection with the fact that it also has to follow resources from above the State budget, and it is up to the Storting's ongoing political discussion to balance the competition for resources between many good purposes. What we were invited to do from the Red-Green in terms of the Constitutional Technique here is to lift some of these resource provisions into the Constitution, and thus lift them out of the policy. This is where we have greater confidence in the Storing, as it is complex today, and how it will be compounded in the years that come with later elections, rather than that it is the Supreme Court judges who are going to fill these very discretionary objectives with content.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e684	I want to ask if it is possible for the representative to rise from the legal and perhaps ideological point of view. Eleanor Roosevelt did a great job giving us the human rights we have. One of her most important messages was that they are indivisible – as the representative said. It's not like you can say that you just get hungry, as long as you have freedom of speech. It's not like that either. China says we've made economic growth, so people just keep their mouths shut. It's traditionally been the way the extremes have weighted different parts. We have had SV representatives in this room who have nominated Castro at the peace prize because people are not starving. The external points on the right have removed the ESC privileges. The same thing is true today. Does that mean that right now is no longer a liberal, conservative party, but an old-fashioned, traditional, conservative party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e691	I'm trying to follow the head of the representative's mind, but what I can say is that we recognize that there is a difference in substance between the state's obligations to conduct – that is, to respect people's freedom, that is what lies in civil and political rights – and the state's obligations to fulfil them. It is, of course, the foundation of our entire constitution that civil and political rights are largely about the freedom that is granted to citizens – security from state interference and unfair treatment, to say the least. Then it's up to politics how we redistribute the resources that are created. Fortunately, there are also some of us who are so interested in economic policy and the free market economy that there will be a surplus to create. We recognize this difference. It is also provided for in the UN itself, which itself has two different charters – one on civil and political rights, the other on economic, social and cultural rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e698	The representative Tetzschner was concerned about not adopting good wishes. In the Constitution § 110, proposal No. 7 it says: «The authorities of the Member States shall facilitate any person who is capable of working for the purpose of living at work or at work.» What I want Tetzschner to deepen is how the state is obliged to do this in the future. After all, it also says here that you must provide a living for those who do not get this by work or feeding. So how does this differ from other rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e708	The representative of Tybring-Gyde is quite right. It was perhaps the first paragraph of the signal we received in 1954, where, in the setting from that time – I have gone through it now – it was made clear to the Stortinget, who then decided that it should not trigger personal or individual rights. So it's a political mark, and from my form it shouldn't belong here. Once it's here – and I haven't noticed a two-thirds majority to remove it – it could actually be a reminder that the state's planning obligation can also be fulfilled in a way other than by wage work, for example. in the country, but also to facilitate free and private business. So an inactive provision is still inactive, but it's at least gotten wider and better as a political mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e715	Human rights are universal and indivisible, said the representative Tetzschner, for so quickly to begin to rank them in an A- and B-layer – a little uncertain for what reason, but it shows a consistently selective attitude from the Right to human rights. So human rights is not a buffet you can choose from, but is a whole to realize the political and civil ones as well. Obviously, the right has not quite got along with it, but they agree to basic law on education and education, because then the children are small. You can actually get sick early in life. You can get sick late in life and need health care, so that it is necessary to realize the political and civil rights. What is the reason why the Right does not see these contexts and recognises the international interpretation – that these rights are linked as a unit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e722	Yes, now the international treaty law does not at all require that. There are individual tracts for each of these areas. Then, of course, you have to be selective about the rights you attach to the constitution. Then it must be allowed to have a different view of what are the central human rights, than the possibly Socialist Left Party had to think of that matter. I think the undertone of the Socialist Left Party is well worth noting, because it's a bit of the same discussion we had in the 1960s, where there were no particular fundamental objections to countries that produced rights to their population on paper, but had no elementary democracy. Then we learned that there was peaceful coexistence and two systems in one Europe. Now these regimes are on the scrapper of history, but it is a bit of an undertone I still notice in the posts of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e729	The discussion on the relationship between flexibility and firmness in the Basic Law is not unique to Norway. It is something that all constitutional democracies debate. After all, the representative Tetzschner argues that establishing the most central human rights that the human rights issue has gone through and carefully selected will contribute to the legalisation of society – despite the fact that few of the hearing bodies have been concerned about such a legalisation. I believe that the Constitution is both a legal tool and a nation-wide and state-producing law – a reflection of our main principles and values. It's supposed to be the law of the people. So I have a question to the representative Tetzschner about what his recommendation is to avoid our basic law being alienated from the people by not taking in the values that are most important to us, by people knowing the social and economic human rights better than just the contents of their own law, by making the Constitution more a symbol of what we were before?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e738	I think the premise of the representative needs to be clarified a little, for legal action I'm not worried about the state's abstinence obligations – respect for the individual. In terms of the state's fulfilment obligations, which are really the subject of politics every day in this house, and on which we spend the entire harvest through the state budget treatment, it's about legalizing what is common political competition for resources. Just by separating the two races you can get a basic law that is easier to understand for those who have expectations of what a foundation law should contain. Another contribution is that the Constitution does not have empty paragraphs, which politicians do not intend to fill in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e743	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e747	This case concerns the right to asylum and has been promoted as a draft constitution by Trine Skei Grande and Hallgeir H. Langeland, cf. Document 12:14 for 2011-2012. The proposal contains a number of alternatives with alternative locations in the Constitution. The proposals are based partly on the alternatives assessed by the Human Rights Committee, the Wages Committee, and partly on the Human Rights Committee of the Association of Judges and others. on the draft constitution tabled by Mr Alvhild Hedstein and Ms Anne Margrethe Larsen in the past, cf. Document 12:17 for 2007-2008. This case does not relate to yes or no to the right to apply for asylum and asylum, but to whether this right is to be enshrined in the Constitution. Norway has acceded to the human rights conventions and ratified them, and the right to apply for asylum and the right to asylum under certain conditions is already in force in our country. In the proposal, the proposers point out that the Human Rights Committee, also known as the Wage Committee, concluded that it would not propose ‘the fundamental law fixing of the right to asylum or the right to apply for asylum’. The proposers believe that this was an unfortunate conclusion, and do not share the opinion of the Human Rights Committee. Asylum is not a precise legal concept, but is described as a temptation for persons in need of protection against persecution because of race, religion, nationality, membership of a special social group or political opinion. It is the Convention on the Legal Status of Refugees of 28 July 1951, the Convention on Refugees, with its 1967 Additional Protocol, which is the most central international agreement on protection against persecution and abuse. The Convention provides for who is considered to be a refugee, the rights of a refugee and the obligations of countries to receive refugees. One of the most important provisions is the right not to be returned to areas where his or her life or safety is at risk, cf. Article 33 of the Convention, the non-refoulement principle. However, persons who do not fulfil the conditions of the Refugee Convention may be entitled to protection against expulsion under other human rights conventions and the most central provisions in this context are the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, Article 3, the United Nations Convention on Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment Article 13 and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights Article 17. These provisions are currently reflected in the law on the access of foreigners to the State and their residence here, the Foreign Affairs Act, of 15 May 2008 No. Article 35, paragraph 28. The Human Rights Committee gave its report to the Parliament l9. on December 2011, and any fundamental legislation of the asylum institution was discussed in depth in this report under point 34.3. The committee believes that there are good arguments for a basic law, and I quote from the report, Document 16 for 2011–2012: ‘If the human rights provisions of the Basic Law are to mark and specify the values on which the Norwegian society is based, it can be argued that the right to apply for asylum should be included in the Constitution. The right of asylum is part of our Christian and humanistic heritage, as referred to in the Basic Law, Section 2, by providing protection to people in flight from persecution. Such protection may be granted only if those persons also have the right to apply for asylum.’;» However, the committee considered it difficult to regulate the right to asylum in the Constitution and indicated that a detailed regulation of the right to asylum at the level of basic law would at the same time make the right of asylum less flexible for the actual changes that are taking place in this field. The committee also considered that the right to apply for asylum would have limited content. The Human Rights Committee concluded that it would not propose ‘establishment of a fundamental right to asylum or the right to apply for asylum’. The Committee points out that the right to apply for refuge in another country is internationally recognised. The United Nations Global Declaration Article 14 gives each person the right to seek asylum from persecution, which reads: «Everyone has the right to seek and enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution». The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, point out that the Human Rights Committee pointed out that there were also good reasons for fundamental law-making, and they share the opinion of the proposers that the right to seek asylum and asylum if persecution is actually at risk is a right which should be legislated at a higher constitutional level than today's foreign law. The majority believe that by legislating the right to apply for asylum, this right will be better protected against changing political trends. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Progressive Party and the Centre have taken note of the conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights, which was that it would not propose the fundamental legislation of the right to asylum or the right to apply for asylum. These members share this view and recommend that the proposal, all the alternatives, be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e784	The President asked whether the representative should make a proposal, in particular on case No. 4, so it's done. It is a proposal from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e787	Yes, I will end by addressing the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e792	The representative Helge Thorheim has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e797	In the case of asylum, it is such that it will not affect the legal status even if an add the right to apply for asylum to the Constitution. From Amnesty International we know that the right to seek asylum is the human rights that are currently very much challenged in the world, and that a fundamental law can provide this right with better protection against changing political flows. I wonder if the Progress Party believes that this human network is not important. Why can't the Progress Party join the Constitution as long as it doesn't want to change the legal state?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e804	Like a lot of other paragraphs we have to deal with today, it's so that even if they had come in, it wouldn't change the legal situation. But we're a little bit principleal. In areas where you have to legislate something that you still have to explain further, we find it unfortunate to legislate it. As of today, this area is already very well grounded, both in section 2 of the Constitution and in a new section 92, which I expect will be adopted today. There we also point to the treaties on which our country is bound. We therefore believe that this right is very well enshrined in the Constitution as of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e809	The representative of Thorheim represents the Party of Advancement, which is a self-declared law-and-order party. Especially in the field of justice and when you come to sexual crimes, they've been very forward and hard. In particular, four representatives of the Progress Party have been extremely loud in those debates. It's Åse Michaelsen, Per Sandberg, Per-Willy Amundsen and Ulf Leirstein. I wonder – I understand and do not understand how it may be that the Progress Party will vote against the fourth paragraph of Section 104, which is therefore about the state taking action to protect children from sexual abuse. I would like to ask the representative the question: why does the representative not agree with the Constitution that the state should protect children from sexual abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e816	This was now the case with regard to the right to asylum. I think I'll come back to this question in my main post. I want to touch on this where I address both the human rights we want to fundamentalize, and also the ESC rights. That question will touch me quite well in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e823	I have come to understand that the lines of the principals are to be taken together now. If I have understood correctly, as I have also discussed, the representative must be given the opportunity to answer my first question before I am asked the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e828	Yes, now he has answered your question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e832	Yes, he said he would answer later, but then he would come back to it later, and I would expect that answer. But my other question can be about asylum. Now I've heard what the representative has said. But I will assume that also the representative Thorheim is very proud that one of our great heroes, Fridtjof Nansen, in 1922 received the peace prize for the excellent work he did for just refugees. Just getting this principle into the Constitution will not move the right of asylum by one millimetre, because the right to asylum is enshrined in law, but detailed conditions are laid down by law. Why will the representative of Thorheim not follow up on what the great national hero was awarded the Peace Prize for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e841	As I said before, we've really been attaching this to the Constitution already. I'll quote Section 2, where it says: «The basis of values remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’.» Furthermore, in the paragraph that comes to this day – and I expect it to be a majority for it – it says: «The authorities of the Member States shall respect and ensure human rights as defined in this Constitution and in the Treaties on Human Rights binding on Norway.» As I said, this I expect to be adopted. Thus, all these human rights, including the right to apply for asylum, are well founded as of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e856	The right to apply for asylum is all about the fundamental: the right to life, not to be persecuted politically, tortured and perhaps killed. That's why it's so fundamental in human rights, and so it might not be surprising that the Progress Party will not base it, but very cautiously that the Right will not do so. Just because this right is under pressure and is threatened today, it has been necessary to give it a double protection – not new rights, but a double protection. Basic law requires a decision to be made between the two; the proposal must be promoted in a single way and adopted at the next major stage. We know that, on several occasions, the representatives of the Progress Party have just called for the termination of the Convention on the Protection of Refugees and for it to be removed. That is why it is so critical to know whether the Progress Party will now pursue it or whether they have changed their policies and will defend this Convention commitment by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e863	I agree with Karin Andersen: this is an important area to make the constitution, and that is why we have done it. As I said before, I believe that at least in two important paragraphs – one comes into existence today, quite rightly – this is a good foundation for today. To the question that Andersen raised: I do not know that there is anything going on to change the conventions we have per day. I also refer to the excellent mention by the Human Rights Committee of the right of asylum at the point concerning this, and we agree with the conclusions of the Human Rights Committee at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e870	One should not look for long in the Stortingen settings from previous times until one sees it being black on white that the Progress Party is to cancel Norway's accession to the Refugee Convention because the Progress Party is a party that does not want us to take the responsibility of taking care of people who need protection during flight, according to their own national interests. The point here is that the paragraphs to which the representative now refers are general, broad paragraphs that do not explicitly mention this. But if there's an explicit statement in the Constitution, it has to make a big choice in between to change it. Does the representative agree that such a double protection would take longer to change Norway’s accession to, or departure from, this type of Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e877	Yes, everything we basic law-enforcement provides an extra protection. But it also gives you an extra chance to become less flexible, as the Human Rights Committee pointed out. I have to say once again that I do not know that it is the current policy in the Progress Party that we should terminate the current Conventions on Human Rights to which we have joined, including the right to asylum. I might rather confirm that this is the current policy. We've joined it per day, and then the future will show what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e884	It's like the Progress Party uses to call itself the party for most people and to say that they should make sure that they are all. Nevertheless, today, the Progress Party shall vote against the Constitution that everyone has the right to education. They shall also vote against the constitutional requirement that everyone has the right to basic health care. It is likely that they will vote against all the economic and social rights proposed by the Human Rights Committee. Then I wonder: why does the Advance Party not want and not want to secure through the Constitution that everyone is entitled to education, and that everyone should receive health care when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e891	Then I think I almost want to answer the representative in the same way as I answered the first question from Abid Q. Raja, that I will come back fully to this in my main post – it will come a little later today – where I will also go through our vote reasoning as to why we do not want to legislate, for example. the right to education. Now you must not get the impression that we are not too entitled to education – on the contrary. This is also legalized in the different conventions we've signed up to. But I will promise the representative that I will come back to that fully and well in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e898	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e901	My post is about the relationship to new § 103 of the Constitution, about the right to establish a family, based on suggestions in Document 12:34 for 2011–2012, promoted by Per-Kristian Foss, Anders Anundsen, Per Olaf Lundtägen and Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, and proposals in Document 12:35 for 2011–2012, promoted by Martin Kolberg, Marit Nybakk, Jette F. Christensen, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Trine Skei Grande. Thus, in Documents 12:35 and 12:34 for 2011–2012, two proposals are made for the new Section 103 of the Basic Law, on the right to form a family. Both proposals have been dealt with in the vote. Marriage and family life are mentioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in civil and political rights and in economic and social rights, as well as in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The provisions of these declarations clearly indicate that the family is the basic unit of society and that the State has a special duty to assist families with children. Furthermore, it is emphasised that the family has a special right to protection from the state. The individual has the right to form a family and choose his/her spouse himself. Spouses shall enjoy equal rights in matrimonial, marital and matrimonial matrimonial matrimonial. The Committee has noted that, with regard to the constitutions of other countries, family and marriage are mentioned in the Finnish, German and Swiss languages, and all these three express the need for the importance of a State protection of the family as an institution and establish the right to marry and to form a family. In our constitution today, there are no provisions that concern neither the family nor the marriage. In the Human Rights Committee's investigation, it is proposed that a separate provision be included in the Basic Law on Family and Marriage. This has its background in clear wording in the International Conventions on Human Rights. It is important that a constitution can show respect for privacy and family life, but also for the family’s importance for child education. But there is also a clear need to express the individual's right to marry on his own initiative, the right to divorce and the right to establish a family. The Committee has also noted that a minority in the Committee on Human Rights primarily wants to focus on individual human rights and claims that a formulation of the Constitution on the Family as a fundamental entity in a human rights context can have normative support for persons who do not perceive themselves as part of the family concept. The Committee has also noted that the family as the basic unit of society is mentioned in the International Conventions on Human Rights. The family that institutions have always been is and should remain an important framework for the formation and growth of children. It forms a foundation in the individual's life that the state can never replace. The family is the first – and too many of the most important – of all the communities we through life become part of. The best interests of children shall be ensured in all contexts and safe frameworks are important for the creation of safe adults. For most children, the family is just the most basic arena of belonging, proximity and community. The Committee is aware that the concept of family can today address some of the challenges that were previously unknown. While a pre-targeted family or a large family, family life today is characterised by greater diversity. This development poses a problem for the family concept. Therefore, a Joint Committee stresses that the concept of ‘family’ covers different types of life, and a large community can never make the choice of living for adult people. The Committee also refers to the Inn. S. No 53 for 2003-2004 and St.meld. No 29 for 2002–2003, where ‘family’ as a concept is more detailed and described. The Committee otherwise refers to the Human Rights Committee as regards the importance of stressing the right to free choice of spouse. A marriage can only be concluded by adults who have reached the age of authority and is therefore not a child’s right. The Committee also stresses that marriage must be dissolved under Norwegian law. The spouses shall have the same rights at inception, during and through the dissolution of a marriage. The Treaty establishing the rights of economic and civil rights, the so-called ESC rights, provides for a separate provision on financial support for families with children, a right deriving from the general duty of the State to provide social protection, the obligation to maintain a necessary standard of living and, in particular, the obligation to facilitate the development of the child. However, the Committee considers that all these aspects have been addressed by other legal provisions, which make it unnecessary to include such provisions in this paragraph. The Committee is divided into its configuration. The majority, the members of the Workers' Party, Left, SV, the Green Party, have chosen in their primary proposal to endorse the proposal in Document 12:35. One reasons why even if one agrees that the family is important for family and child growth, it is not necessarily the primary family that is the best place for children to grow up. This majority believes that the Constitution primarily describes the state's obligations to individual citizens' freedom and rights and not to citizens of constellations as a family. Individual rights must be central and protected for all citizens in all situations, in all parts of life and in all forms of life. The majority believe that the individual's right to choose to enter into marriage with the person he chooses, and three of it when you choose it, is essential to live a free life, and that this right must be enshrined in the constitution in order to provide special protection. The members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Green Party have announced that they will subsidize the proposal in Document 12:34. A minority in the Committee, the members of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, refer to the family as a natural, valuable and fundamental institution that constitutes an important framework for the growth and future of children. The position of the family in Norwegian society should be strengthened, instead of making increasingly public decisions on behalf of the family. However, the right-wing members of the Committee do not, on a principle basis, wish to take the right to family members into the Constitution and recommend that neither Document 12:34 nor 12:35 are supported. Another minority, the members of the Center Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, believe – precisely on the basis of the international conventions on human rights, to which Norway has agreed, and the important function of the family in Norwegian society – that it is essential that the Constitution establishes that the family is a fundamental unit in society. In the light of the knowledge we have about the basic importance of the family for the development of individual identity and the raising of children in general, the constitutional provision should establish that the family exists independently of the State. The main objective of this provision is that the State should not pursue a policy that can ignore the family as a basic entity of society. These members therefore support the proposal in Document 12:34. I take up the minority's proposal, proposal No. 1 in Document 12:34.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e935	The president wondered whether the representative could also bring up the proposals on which the Christian People's Party is involved in cases. 1 and 2, along with others, it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e939	I then also mentioned the proposals in the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e944	Then the representative Hans Fredrik Groevan has taken up the proposals he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e949	Like the Christian People's Party, SV believes that it is important to get points into the Constitution just on these issues. But there has been a discussion about this one sentence that expresses that the family is one basic unit in society. There are some additional comments on the interpretation of this phrase. Those comments are not included in SV, but we support their content. We have said that we can subsidize this wording if the interpretation is in line with what is in the position, namely that 'family' is not necessarily just the traditional core family, but that it is the extended family concept with which we are now operating, and that it should form the basis for policy in general, also elsewhere in family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e956	I can confirm what the representative Andersen here refers to in terms of comments and understanding of the family concept. It's an extended family concept, as described here. The reason why we are nevertheless concerned with the inclusion of the concept of ‘family’ in this proposal is based on the international human rights conventions, which are clear on this and also on a recommendation from the Wage Committee. But the family concept here is descriptive and is not an expression of anything normative, except that it says that the family as an institution is a fundamental unit in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e961	What SV primarily wants to adopt is a phrase that is exactly the same, except for this one sentence. That's because we realize that the other points, namely the right to freely get married, to divorce and to choose a spouse, are important, and they're under great pressure. Nor has it been that the Christian People's Party has been a front figure in the struggle to modernise the family concept and to recognize everyone's love as equivalent, and as equally entitled to the approval of society. That is why it is important to state now that, if we are to give our subsidiary support to this proposal today, it is not a support for a rematch on these matters, but it is a support that the Christian People's Party will henceforth stand on the rights we have given to, for example. gay, lesbian and other types of life that are not traditional.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e968	I confirm what I said instead: this is a descriptive description of ‘family’, and therefore there is an extended family concept here, which has been explained in the comments of an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e973	Do I get two lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e978	The representative Raja gets two lines. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e981	Then I took the first one and followed up on what the representative Andersen was into. My question to the representative of the Christian People's Party is: Is it the right procedure to act until a provision which the previous question clearly contradicts? SV is placed in a position where they are initially opposed to this provision, but on the basis of the agreement they have entered into because of the language, they are obliged to vote in a subsidiary way. Is the representative satisfied that other representatives and other parties are now bound by an agreement to vote subsidiaryly for what they are actually opposed to? Are such constitutional provisions to be adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e990	I expect SV to be able to answer for themselves in terms of what they want to be in – primarily and subsidiaryly. I notice that the representative Raja uses the word ‘horsesale’ to see two important constitutional issues in one context. I have a completely different view of our contribution in this regard. We helped to reach an agreement on languages that actually also joined the Left, which allowed us to modernise the constitutional language with both a bookkeeping and a news release. That we then chose to focus also on the content of the context, where certain provisions and not least certain wordings of the provisions of the Human Rights Section of the Constitution were withdrawn, is about getting solutions to which one can choose to join or not join. The result was as described in the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e999	I really had another question, but since I get two more lines now, I would like to follow up on the answer I received from the representative of Gruvan. I am very satisfied with, can live with and vote for both the New Norse version of the Graver Committee and the Counter Committee's book target version in terms of the language change of the Constitution. The whole of the left voted for the same time. But that's what the horse trade is about, is you say you give some language to get something back. Horse merchants happen in this house all the time, but then it's about a know-how pub, a million dollars or something. But now we're talking about the Constitution. That is the most sacred thing for politicians. Perhaps the Constitution should also be the most sacred thing for the Christian People's Party politicians. It's the tallest thing in the country. Should a horse be traded back and forth to regulations? Should not the Christian People's Party be so big and say to SV, and possibly also to the Workers' Party, that they release them from the agreement that they are now actually bound by?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1011	Policy is about finding constructive solutions in cooperation with others. I hope that the representative Raja will remember that too. In order to find constructive solutions, a search must be agreed in such a way that a person does not always have to choose his or her primary proposal and sometimes choose a number. 2 solutions, but at the same time there must be solutions that you can put in place. That's the point: seeing more things in the context, whether it's about know-how or what it's about now, is about creating political support for a case. I see what has happened in this case as a constructive contribution to creating the consensus that was clearly in the United Kingdom regarding the modernisation of the language, and I choose to see it in conjunction with important wording in several of the paragraphs concerning the human rights of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1020	Representative Abid Q. Raja – for Line No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President assumes it's a new topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1023	It's a new theme, but if I have the opportunity to add one sentence, I'll say: It is very nice that the Christian People's Party contributed to solving the language dispute, but I believe, however, that it is a secret that we should demand something back. It's not in the spirit of the Constitution. My other question is this with the right to life: the majority in the committee have a different view from that of the Christian People's Party, and I would like to take the opportunity to ask questions to the Christian People's Party about it: Their primary position is that they want a constitutional right to life from conception to death. They write in the notes on the life span that it concerns ‘from the first beginning of conception until death occurs’. [[...]] Is it so to understand that the Christian People's Party, by going in principle for this provision, really wants to legislate that Norway is against abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1036	I would first like to thank the Rose Raja gives to the Christian People's Party for contributing to a solution in terms of language. So let's see. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1041	It's just nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1046	As far as the right to life is concerned, first of all, I would say that for the Christian People's Party, the right to life is one of the most central human rights. That's why it's important to put it in place, as it is. are expressed in the World Declaration and in other UN Conventions. The Christian People's Party has, over several periods, promoted a proposal for the right to life – as the representative Raja rightly quotes – from conception to natural death. It is a principle that has been promoted for several periods, and we have not taken a stand on the principle of how practice is to be implemented with regard to legislation in the various fields. But it's a principle that we want to put in place, that life is defined that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1053	I asked for a line because I want to express – because it is part of this line change – that the Workers' Party has not participated in any horse trade. What has happened — and it is actually an important thing in dealing with the Constitutional Cases today — is that there has been such a broad understanding of the content of the term ‘family’. The fact that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are united on a note that gives the definition of the comment – and I refer to it – is a good thing for Norway. It is a progress where the Workers' Party has contributed its own, and where the Christian People's Party has contributed its own. I have listened to what the Count says, and I think he can confirm this understanding, as I present it. It's not a result of a horse trade. It is a result of a reasonable process in the Committee, which has referred to something as important as the family of course is in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1060	I can fully confirm the understanding expressed by the representative of Kolberg. It's a description of the family that's been done to say something about an extended family concept. We believe that this is a good basis for doing so, taking into account both the position of the Wage Committee and the other documents on which this matter is being dealt with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1065	Representative Abid Q. Raja has asked for another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1068	I was actually done, but when the representative of Kolberg brings this back, we need to get a clarification from the representative of Gruvan. Based on what I have seen and understood, it is such that there is an agreement, a written agreement, where the parties among other things. is the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party. Doesn't that mean it's true? I would like to ask the representative Gruvan if there is such a written agreement, where part of that agreement, among other things. is that the Workers' Party shall vote subsidiaryly for the provision which the Christian People's Party wishes to adopt, that the family is a fundamental entity. Is that right, or is it wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1075	There is no written agreement, but there is an agreement, as the Committee's recommendation shows, on what one will vote for primarily, and what one will vote for subsidiaryly. It is in the committee's position, both in that matter and in other matters. As far as I know, several of the parties have shown how one will vote subsidiaryly – even the Left in fact – in some cases, and there is certainly nothing more special than that one tells the other elected people, and the rest of the Norwegian population, how one imagines subsidiary solutions if one does not get an impact on his primary view.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1081	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1084	It's a very big day today. The size is today to adopt a number of new constitutional provisions that will bring our Constitution, our Constitution, to fit more closely with our times. At the same time, we're going to try to nail some poles that are going to show the way forward, and stand over time. The Constitution shall ensure that citizens have minimum rights, rights which they shall not be able to deny at any time to a majority of them. It shall, as you know, be part of before the Constitution can be amended. That is why I am pleased that § 116 will not be adopted later today. As can be seen from the proposal, it is a matter of setting aside the Basic Law in the event of an emergency; the fact that the rights of the Constitution can be waived by a simple decision on a state of crisis clearly makes it necessary to ensure democracy or the rule of law. What a state of crisis is, do not know. At least there is something more and something different than war, because “crisis state” is explicitly mentioned in the provision, in addition to war. Furthermore, whatever is necessary to ensure democracy at all times, different governments and the majority can find different from what we find today. This arbitrariness should therefore not open up today’s gamble to the legitimate use of tomorrow’s delinquency or governments. We do not have a constitution and do not make new provisions in the Constitution because the Constitution is to be set aside by simple government decision. With all due respect for the party political disagreements, the Workers' Party is really on the wrong track here. They are alone — almost alone, together with the MDG — to believe that such a permit should be grounded. The basic law is meant to stand in every situation, and it is especially in a time of conflict that we need a constitution and its principles to stand firm and unshakable. The majority – or government – who are in office at any time shall not be allowed to change the Constitution without following the prescribed methods: intermediate elections and a two-thirds majority. That's why it's particularly disappointing to see that the country's largest party will break this system and create this right, but at the same time, I'm glad that they're almost the only ones and almost alone about it. The rest of the overwhelming majority of the Stortinget – more than two thirds of the Stortinget – are therefore in agreement with legitimising the erosion of the Constitution in this way that the Workers' Party is now in favour. It is disappointing that the Workers' Party does not see this – yes, it is alarming. I therefore strongly urge the representative of Kolberg – who is also the head of the Committee – and the Labour Party to turn around in time and vote against this now. I took advantage of the opportunity to say this even though I am actually here because I have the great honour of being the case rapporteur for the proposal that deals with the right to life. Three proposals have been put forward to this effect, and one of these is the majority in the Committee behind it, either in principle or in a subsidiary way, and I assume that large parts of the Biggest, at least two thirds – I would rather hope a total increase – will be behind the majority of proposals. It is about Norway explicitly stating that our nation is opposed to the death penalty, torture and slavery. The right wanted the term ‘inhabitant’ to be included in the provision. They are initially for the purpose of the provision itself, but the small disagreement is whether or not to include ‘inhabitants’. I hope that the Right subsidiary will vote for what the rest of the committee is for. As I was already involved in the change of lines, the Christian People's Party has gone so that in principle they will have the rule that human life is inviolable from conception to death, i.e. from "the first beginning of conception". Subsidiously, they are in favour of what the majority is for, and I am pleased to see that the Storting will adopt that provision today. Fortunately, we do not have the death penalty in Norway. It can be argued that we do not have torture and slavery in Norway either, although one must admit that the United Nations torture committee often criticises Norway for treating people in smooth cells and mentions this as torture. The closest we probably come to slavery in Norway is for those women who are exposed to human trafficking and who, against their will, are forced into and kept in organized prostitution. Although Norway abolished the last death penalty provision in 1979, there are now more than 23 000 people on death cells around the world waiting for the day they will die; the day a state, that is, their own state, has decided to take their lives. Globally, the death penalty is a shameful practice that takes place both in eastern and western countries. Our greatest and most important ally, the United States – which I consider myself to be both personal and political as a friend of – is one of the countries in the world with the most disappointing history of all of them. At least the Americans should have better. You expect better from your friends, and your friends will also be dared to face up to you openly. Amnesty says that the global trend is clear, and that the trend is that the use of the death penalty is falling, but nevertheless it is alarming that this method is being used. Iran and Saudi Arabia continue to use public executions as a means of frightening their population, and in the latter country methods of beheading swords are used. Executions in Japan and Belarus are swept in a blanket of secrets, and family and relatives are not notified until the execution has been completed. There is a small group of countries that continue to increase and execute at a huge pace. Especially in the case of China, we don't know what the number is. Although there has been a positive trend in some countries, at least 778 executions took place last year. This figure does not include China, and it does not include the unofficial number from Iran. As far as the United States is concerned, there is a positive decrease. It's 32 states that have the death penalty in the law. Around nine of them practice executions every year, and despite these developments, the use of the death penalty is the major challenge in the United States, because the federal system allows for unequal treatment within the law across state borders. We've seen examples of these horrible events lately, where different mixtures of toxins have led to unsuccessful executions, among other things. Ohio and Oklahoma. In both cases, eyewitnesses have reported that the condemned person expressed obvious pain, and in one of the cases the sentenced person had also stood up and talked. Major democracies and partners like the United States and Japan bring the death penalty closer to our home. These are the only G8 countries that use the death penalty. In the United States, there is also a system that is very arbitrary, and where the vulnerable are more likely to be sentenced to death than those who can afford better legal aid. Our most important allies also have another shame in their history and conscience, and that's Guantánamo. As of today, about 150 men are under arrest at Guantánamo. Of these, 70 are cleared for release, and most of them have been there for years. Several of them come from Yemen, and the only reason they can't be released now is because you fear that Al Qaida in Yemen can try to contact them and recruit them. Think, President, if anyone, completely innocent and innocuous, was abducted and for a number of years held hostage in a state, without law and judgment, without the right to a lawyer or to speak to anyone, and that torture was widely used. So this state found out that they were actually innocent, but said no, now we can't release them, because it can now be dangerous. Maybe someone can recruit them for extremism, so we'll just keep them hostage. That's the way it is for the more than 70 people that our most important ally holds as hostages today. Since this prison camp was established, nearly 800 people have been arrested there. When Barack Obama took over as president, he promised to close this camp within a year. He failed. The Peace Prize winner Barack Obama probably hasn't closed his eyes to what's going on in Guantánamo, but he hasn't been able to do anything. Guantánamo is a shame not only for the United States, but also for the United Nations and the entire international community, including Norway. We have all failed and not the power to do anything. Today, by adopting this provision, the size will also send a strong signal to the outside world. We think the whole world should have similar rules. Every human being's life is inviolable. We're all supposed to be protected from slavery and torture. No state shall be able to execute citizens. Here, Norwegian governments will have no choice but to choose the right path for human rights. There's no room for relativization. Human rights should be independent of the state we're talking to. The last subparagraph states that the authorities of the State must not only protect but also combat torture, slavery and forced labour and other inhuman or degrading treatment. That fight is to be done all over the world. Norway must dare to stand up to the death penalty, torture and slavery – it is in Iran, Iraq or Saudi Arabia, and it is in Japan, the United States or China. With this, I recommend the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1126	The President wondered whether the representative would also like to raise the Left's proposals on case No. 1 together with the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1129	Yeah, I'll take up those suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1134	The representative then addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1139	The parties Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environmental Party The Green Party have indicated that they can support – not all primarily, but subsidiaryly – the wording of Section 103 on the family as a basic entity. You can then use an extended family concept as explained in the settings. But this doesn't apply to the Right and the Left. Then I would like to ask: What kind of view of the role of the family in society does the Left have, which can neither primarily nor subsidiaryly support such a formulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1144	There is no secret to anyone in Norway that the Christian People's Party and the Left, and perhaps also the SV, now represented in the Chamber, have a very different view when it comes to a number of value issues – abortion, artificial conception, homosexual rights in adopting children, or their way of life. The definition of family in the liberal party Left is completely different from that of the Christian People's Party. I am very pleased that the wording of Section 103, which we have proposed and are behind, as others also support – that anyone who has reached the marital age etc. – the majority of two thirds will most likely be adopted. We're going to enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1149	I hear that the representative Raja says he has a completely different view of the family than both the Christian People's Party and the other parties I have listed. What kind of view does the Left have on the role of the family in society? I want to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1154	I noticed that the representative Gruvan in a previous line change was unable to answer the question, because he said there was no written agreement. I could, if I had a follow-up question then, ask the question: Was there a written document? Well to mark it was not signed – but it has certainly been a written document? The written document clearly obliges both SV and others to the content of that document. My appeal to the Christian People's Party has been to release those who are obliged by the document, because they have a different view of what a family is than what the Christian People's Party has. The Christian People's Party must explain for itself what kind of view they have of what a family can be. But to me, a lonely woman who has had children outside of marriage or two gay men who have adopted children can be families. It is not certain that that family concept fits so well into the reality of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1159	The representative Raja is the case rapporteur for the new § 93, the right to life and recommends that you end up with option 1 B, that every person has the right to life. The centre party concludes on the assessments presented here by the rapporteur, including what the representative said about the death penalty internationally. However, since this is the occasion that gives the opportunity to make a reply to the representative Raja, I would like to ask a question about the family. The family is a basic unit of society. So this is according to Section 103, which the Left will not advocate subsidiaryly – despite the fact that there are clear remarks that all parties define the content of the family in a way that I cannot see is a contradiction to what the Left stands for. What is the problem for the Left Party, when we have here a definition that is an attempt to settle a dispute and get the family legally established?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1166	I am very pleased that the representative Lundtigen and the Senterpartiet are involved in the first Lundtägen, that we have a clear and clear rule that Norway is against the death penalty, slavery and torture. As far as the family is concerned, I'm not sure what the central party's principal starting point is. But I have noted that the centre party has been part of the written written document, which, for certain reasons, has not been signed. In the left we want to adopt a provision which reads: «Every person who has reached the age of marriage has the right to form a family, to marry and to dissolve marriage in accordance with the provisions laid down by law. Marriage may be concluded only with the consent and free will of the spouses.» We believe that this is the right provision that should be laid down in the Constitution, not something about what is a basic entity. There are many basic units in society, not just one.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1179	§ 103 reads: ‘Family is a fundamental entity of society’. So it's not the "basic unit" of society, it's one basic unit. The Committee's comments clarify its content. As far as I can see from the Committee's position, there is also a comitology note on the Left. So the Labour Party, SV and the Greens say that they will subsidly support proposal No. 34, while the Left, of all, as a former center party, who have seen the family as a perfectly obvious basic unit in society, may come in a situation where they will vote against that constitutional change. It is very surprising and unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1189	Family is very important to the Left. But the family concept is different for the Left and holds more than that for the Christian People's Party. The situation is that it is important to bring this story with you to people who come along and read it afterwards. It is so that the Christian People's Party has had a different vision. SV has had a different vision than the vision of the Christian People's Party. I can also say that the primary position of the Workers' Party is not like this. I don't know what the central party's position is, but then it's the written, written document. The Christian People's Party can be credited for helping solve the language dispute, but by giving something in connection with the language you have received, demanded and demanded something back – a horse trade, as I have mentioned it as. I believe that this is not the way to proceed in order to adopt constitutional provisions. I can't be part of the family concept that the Christian People's Party adds. We have a liberal view of society and the family. I'm glad that the left-hand rule is going to get a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1194	This matter is primarily about credibility and honesty. There has been a very thorough account of what has happened in this case. I refer to what has been said in previous lines. I again reject the claims of the representative Raja that this is an expression of a horse trade. This matter that is being dealt with now is all about man's right to life. Of course, it's absolutely necessary that we have such a provision. There are marks made against two other alternatives: the inherent right to life, and what is proposed by the Christian People's Party, the right to life from conception to natural death. What I would like to ask the case rapporteur on this matter is whether we agree that the wording given to the majority in the Stortinget today does not in any way prevent Norwegian abortion legislation – as the Labour Party believes. I just want confirmation from the rapporteur that that is a correct understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1199	That's the correct understanding, and that's also the left hand view. With regard to the first thing Kolberg has to say, it's about history writing. That agreement is not written down – I was there too – but it is a written document that the media has also received, which the media has also printed, so why you try to talk away from it, I have some difficulties to see. We in the Left have voted for both the New Norse and Book Goals version of the Graver selection anyway, because we think it's the right thing to do. But the fact that you have had to give something to get this – and it is written down in a document, well not to notice in signed form, but as there has been a broad consensus among the parties mentioned there – is part of the story that the representative of Kolberg must carry on with him. In the case of abortion and § 93, we fully agree, and I refer to the comments that are made there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1213	It's true, as they say, that now it's about history writing. I would like to say that, first of all, there is no written agreement. There has been an understanding, as the representative Gruvan has quite rightly said. I underline that, and I'm behind that interpretation. But then I would say about the history that there are certain limits to attempts at rewriting, as the representative Raja now says. He was consistent with all the changes in language, stood for it, fought for it, and created challenges in the committee. Then he says, "We voted for changes." Yes, they did that for an absolute eleventh hour, after they were threatened to do so, so that Raja personally and the Left would not stand in the pit of shame. That's what really happened. It should be brought inward by the representative Raja, and not stand here and talk down about the ways in which others work in the Committee. I take a direct distance from that, including as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1218	Yes, I have persistently argued that we should keep the language as it was – I have. I have also explained in the speech I gave why we should vote differently. But I don't understand what the representative of Kolberg is trying to cover. The signed agreement, which is certainly not signed, is located in my own office. I've also seen it printed in the newspapers. I also know who said you should not sign, because that was not necessary. But the reality is that the Workers' Party has given something to get the language. I believe that when it comes to the Constitution, such types of horse dealer are completely inappropriate. Yes, it's almost inconvenient – because you're talking about our own constitution – to buy and sell regulations in this way. As for the fact that we voted against or for the change in language, it was already in the setting that the left was divided into the question, but we nevertheless voted unanimously for the new Norwegian version.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1223	Yes, I don't know how long we can run with this in Stortinget, but I just want to honestly refer to what has been said before about the honesty and sincerity of this agreement. I believe that we left this dead in the previous line change, as we gave strong characteristics of why we had agreed on this way of thinking about family – as it appears now. That's what's going on. I just want to say – without going too far, because I actually don't think it's worth it – that the representative Raja is not the one who doesn't try to get solutions or combine different solutions. When he attacks us so strongly, I'm not going to identify it further, but if there's a need for it, I'm actually going to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1228	I have always tried to stick to the matter, but when there are such lines on the page, with comments that will draw the story in the wrong direction, I have to correct it. It's true, as Kolberg says, we haven't been part of this agreement, because I think it's wrong to buy the constitution that other parties are actually opposed to, and then hold them attached to this because they have an agenda with this. I am almost sure and also heard about the line change – I try not to read too much into the SV representative’s line change, but at least it seemed to me like – that you would rather not have that provision. But nevertheless, there is an agreement that makes you bound to this, and I believe that in the context of the Constitution it is so very inappropriate. Actually, I'm pretty sure that the representative Kolberg agrees with this – that when it comes to the Constitution, you shouldn't hold on like this – and that's why he also has a strong need to challenge this, so that he gets his version, or his history, out. But that's not the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1233	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1236	For the sake of those who might follow the debate outside the hall, I want to introduce my post as a little break in style, because I now get the word for another matter that is included in today's map. I am given the floor as the case rapporteur for the special draft Constitutional Law, which involves a change to our current freedom of expression clause, § 100. There is – for those who have the documents available – draft constitution 15 in Document 12:15 [[2011-2012]] The Committee has shared its view on whether it makes sense to give a special clarification to our relatively new freedom of expression clause that the critical freedom of expression should also be addressed to religion. Those in the Committee who have wanted such clarification are the Working Party, the Left, the SV and the Greens. They want to make it clear that freedom of expression also includes the right to religious criticism. In the case of the majority of the committee – which I myself belong to – i.e. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party will show that today's wording has two directions. It states that it wants the critical freedom of expression against – of course – the state. It is quite important in a democracy that people can say what they want, even about the state, which organizes the use of power in society. Then it says – and it's an old formulation from the former constitution: about any other object. If you look at the design that § 100 got in 2004, after the Sejersted Committee, which made a NOU, NOU 1999: 27, there was no doubt that any other subject of freedom of expression also included bold statements and critical freedom of expression used against religion. As the majority of the committee sees it, there is an unnecessary addition, because under ‘any other object’ one will find that religion as a phenomenon does not succumb to the critical social critique, and that is essential. That being said, you can go back to the minority – that is. the majority of the Committee, and their comments on the opinion, shall be as follows: ‘However, for the majority, it is important to clarify that this balance should not be regulated by law, but that instead there is a question of society’s climate of debate and politeness. The majority therefore believe that the solution is not to ban attitudes, opinions or religious practices. The solution is, in the view of the majority, to actively facilitate religious criticism as part of the public debate.’ Then one has to ask: is it that these parties in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party see – contrary to what others say, that there is freedom of expression, and then we withdraw and let the public debate go as it can, unhelped and undirected – that the state should organise campaigns with religiously hostile content? What's really going on in this? You could ask yourself that. I would point out that I am of the opinion that freedom of expression with such an addition will not go into a higher and better unity in this reference to religion. I also want to give legal warning against starting an uproar, for what is the next thing to be, if there are other things in society you want to use in particular the freedom of expression and criticism against? Where do you want to put the dot for such an enumeration? I think that here, too, we are going to lean back to the good constitutional tradition, which means that, through a few brief, very well-known, statements of a normative nature in the Constitution, what you need for all the phenomena that have to arise in the wake of freedom of expression. I would also like to remind you that in purely linguistic terms, there is quite a difference in a general statement of e.g.: the type: ‘I never flag.’ It will of course be the same as saying, ‘I never flag — and at least not when the neighbor has a birthday.’ It will be understood from the context that there is something in particular about the neighbor you want to hit, although this is simply linguistically included in the first option, namely that you never flag. That's why we can get an unintended effect: making shooting discs. Then we should be aware, if you really do this: freedom of expression requires a good deal of hard skin and a good deal of tolerance of us as individuals. If, for a moment, we also think of individuals who have their faith and religious convictions as a very important part of their cultural identity, should we draw this tolerance limit differently because it is mentioned in the Constitutional Law, or should we not? I would like an answer to that from one of them from the other side of the committee that has been on the vote. That'll be very interesting. The answer will either be no, we're not going to change this tolerance limit – then the supplement is unnecessary – or you're going to say, we're going to say that people who have a religious conviction have to tolerate more of the sheiks or of freedom of expression used in a bad way. That would also be a very interesting answer. I hope that's not the last answer. As I said, the opinion has only been to clarify – from both sides of the committee – what is, of course, that there is freedom of expression. You can have boldness and criticize any "second object" in our public life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1264	The reason why we want religion to be specifically mentioned is not because someone has to tolerate more, but because there is a need to break some taboos, which should specifically be said about. It is because religion has particular power over the mind of individuals, and because religion has a completely different effect from other factors. If you read the comments that SV has written – and to which the Left has joined – you can see that we show that the right to free religious practice is protected by the law of the Convention. This protection sometimes conflicts with some of the other human rights, for example. in the field of equality. It's not unknown, either in Norway or in the rest of the world. Does not the representative Tetzschner see that those who want to uphold these human rights need to know explicitly that it is permissible to express themselves critically against the religion that oppresses them?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1271	I don't think there is any special guidance in the SV's supplement. I also do not think they argue convincingly for their alternative in their particular remarks. They indicate that religion is a ‘power factor in families, in the community and up to a state-supporting structure of cultural and political hegemony’. It's not the Norwegian society we're discussing. This is about the constitutional provisions applicable to Norwegian society, within the territory in which the Norwegian authorities have jurisdiction. Not only will the constitutional provisions, but all the other provisions that guarantee people's integrity, freedom of movement and freedom of choice will be fully enforced. I can still not see that SV’s contribution – although well-intentioned – strengthens the protection of rights in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1278	There are at least two fundamental shortcomings in Tetzschner's reasoning now. One is that Norway has become a multi-religious society. There are other traditional religions than the one we are familiar with – and which, after criticism, we have been moved in the direction of human rights – that are in force. So one can actually need this in Norway. The second is that the Norwegian Constitution also has an effect internationally, based on how we believe other states should govern. As far as I know, the Right is against having religious states, or that religion should be able to bind people in other countries. This is an international convention, to which we have joined. Our interpretation will mean something international. There are forces that are on strong march in parts of the world, and at least SV is deeply concerned about having the strength they have today. Do not Right and Tetzschner see these developments and the important role that our interpretation can play internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1289	I think we have to assume that the Constitution is made for Norwegian relations. That it has transfer value to the rest of the world, I hope. Until recently, it was one of the most claimed and oldest constitutions. We need to ensure, through good lawmaking, that the law can continue to be a model for the rest of the world, not by reading political programme declarations, but by leaving the paragraphs reserved for real rights. It's a discussion we've had before today. I believe the representative Karin Andersen and I agree that full freedom of speech should prevail. Some of us think when we make it clear that the whole field — all social phenomena — will be bad lawmaking and very artificially raising something to special depth in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1298	We in the Labour Party think it is important that we in this paragraph be able to interpret religion. I believe that one in society in general has the impression that it is not always allowed to criticize – at least not all – religions. That's why I thought a clarification is very important. The paragraph recommending a decision of the Committee states: ‘Everyone has the right to express himself boldly on government, religion and any other subject.’ When it says "state governance", why can't it also say "religion"?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1310	I was involved in it in my first post, that the reason why it says government is precisely because the law also sets the framework for democracy. It is very important to stress that the state, which organises the monopoly of power in society, must also bear in mind that critical statements are being addressed, and it is particularly important to enter into the Constitution that it is actually the same for those who sit on both military and police power. In addition, it is welcome to have freedom of expression on any other item. More comprehensively, the freedom of expression in this society cannot be described as ‘any other object’, so we do not see any need for that supplement. But I record that the Workers' Party, which, during the caricature struggle, had a foreign minister who entrusted us with a considerable degree of self-esteem, is now raising the principle of religion. I hope it's part of a new orientation away from the angle of self-sensory links.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1315	After all, it is clear from the provision that bold statements on government and any other subject matter are permitted, so I agree with the representative Tetzschner that it is obvious that religion is implicit in the provision. But I think maybe the representative Tetzschner also agrees that there are two things in particular – perhaps in the world, but also here in Norway – that are often under pressure, you could say, or you could say it's a little controversial to debate about it, maybe criticise it and at least satire around it. The caricature struggle is just an example that religion – criticizing religion, talking about religion and dogma about it – can provoke anger. Would it not be a good idea if the government first set out as an example that freedom of expression is at least free? Although religion is implicit, should it also have been explicitly written that bold statements about government, religion, and any other object are permitted? Wouldn't that be a good idea? Then, with the Basic Law in hand, any religion could be freed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1320	If the purpose is to get rid of a religion, you can already do it with the design that the Constitution has. The reason why we have this traditional two-part division, where opinions have to be tolerated both on the state administration and on any other object, is because civil society and businesses and individuals who have to endure the correction of opinions, as a rebuttal that we others have freedom of expression. It's important that you also write in the Constitution that those who possess the monopoly of power in society also have to endure it. That's the reason for the division of two in the law, and then the universe is actually going to be completely covered with the two clarifications we have. So it's not – as we understand it – that someone has suggested that there should be other boundaries for religious people when they get statements addressed to themselves that are unpleasant, than it was before, and thus the law contains nothing new.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1325	We don't very disagree about today's protection. If you look at it purely legally, religion is implicitly part of the freedom of expression rule, you can make bold statements about religion as well. It's clear. But nevertheless, those who want to make bold statements about religion are under pressure. They experience reprisals, there are fears and threats, and they have to tie up. The Constitution is the highest legal source in Norway, our constitution, and I think it should be a good idea that it clearly stated that when someone wants to criticise religions, and the dogmas will thus restrict one's freedom of expression, it is not the religious dogmas that will have blasphemous statements made or will have other prohibitions against expressions against religions, which apply, then it is the Constitution that applies, and even the Constitution states that freedom of expression about religion is also permitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1332	Now we are in the happy situation of the current § 100, that it is relatively new, and that we had a commission called the Freedom of Speech Commission, which made a report in 1999 under the title «Freedom of Speech should find Location», which just goes into and underlines that it is free to criticise religion. So it's in the laws, and it's not all the basic laws that have such rich laws. By maintaining the wording, we will continue to have an indisputable right to speak against religion in all its forms, but, of course, within the normal limits of criminal law relating to the integrity of individuals. No one has argued that those limits should be moved, and so, with the President’s permission, it would be an institution to introduce a new word with the possibility that more words and expressions will be notified later.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1338	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1341	Today’s debate and decision on changes to the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway take place with a background of long-standing and thorough work. The centre party is a constitutional conservative party. This means that constitutional paragraphs must be formulated precisely and as short as possible. We shall be careful to establish good intentions as to whether or not we can realise, and to ensure that the People's elected authority of the Storting should not be eroded, either by the authority of international and supranational organisations or by the increasing power of Norwegian courts. At the same time, the Constitutional Conservatism of the Central Party means that most people need to understand the content of the Constitution through a modern language. It is especially important that our young people get the closest possible relationship to the foundation of our people's government, the Constitution, in their schooling. Therefore, the Central Party is very pleased that the Constitution has now been passed in modern neo-Norwegian. We will also work in this growing period to ensure that the Constitution comes to modern book goals in the future. Furthermore, it is natural that the Constitution also comes in Sami, since the free, maritime state of Norway was established in the territory of two people: Norwegian and Sami. The central party has an active and conscious relationship with the purpose of the Constitution. The Constitution states that the Kingdom of Norway is a free and maritime country. The Constitution regulates the relationship between the state powers; the legislator; the Stortinget, the executive; the government and the judge; the courts. The Constitution regulates the relationship between the state and the citizen and between the citizens, where a level playing field and equal rights are central. From the time before the Constitution was passed in 1814, citizens have gone from being subjects to citizens, and, as democracy now demands, citizens are to govern the state through their elected representatives on the Stortinget. The principle is that those who rule are governed by the rulers. Those who govern are held accountable to the voters every four years. Politically, this government has been fought through history, where the interests of the Right Party have challenged. The civil rights of the Constitution have evolved from freedom from coercion and imprisonment – so-called negative freedoms – to increasingly positive freedoms through extensive debate and legislation where one would create something in common. Especially important was ensuring people greater freedom in situations where one is vulnerable and weak. After World War II it was necessary and therefore naturally placed increased emphasis on general human rights as well as related social, economic and cultural rights, i.e. the individual's right to the state. Today, when we are dealing with Document 12:31 for 2011–2012 on the fundamental law-making of economic, social and cultural human rights, we should be aware that three key paragraphs are already in our constitution. Paragraph 110 of the current paragraph: «It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the performance of their duties by any capable person.» This came into 1954. Furthermore, § 110a: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami People’s Group.’» This came into 1988. And finally § 110b: ‘Everyone has the right to an environment that ensures health and to a nature whose productive capacity and diversity are preserved. [[...]] This came into 1992. The most important fundamental issue in today's debate is how we look at a further extension of the Constitution's provisions on economic, social and cultural conditions. Based on our constitutional conservatism, with which I started, the Centre Party is generally positive in ensuring such extensions to further develop Norwegian society by further developing a positive freedom by creating something in common. It's important to look for values for good society. But then the rights also have to be clear, and they have to be realizable. We must avoid the illusions of fundamental law fixing. The fundamental law of the right to cultural identity and participation in cultural life is, in our view, such an example. In the context of the continuation of human rights from today's § 110c to new § 92, it is important for the Central Party to clarify that this concerns the human rights enshrined today in ratified and binding treaties for Norway. The central party will therefore clarify that no future binding ratified treaties will be ranked by the Constitution without having been adopted following the procedure of the Constitutional Act § 112. I want to present the views of the Centre Party on some key constitutional paragraphs. Other representatives of the Central Party will present our views on the following proposed constitutional clauses: §§ 99, 100, 103, 104, 109, 111 and 114. The Central Party will legislate the right to life. It is important that the right to life, the most fundamental of all rights, is entered in the Constitution. Suffering if this is a right many take for granted, it is important that this right be grounded. Today, the right to life is not explicitly written down in the Constitution. The ban on torture is set out in the Constitution, but for the time being only as part of the criminal proceedings. We have noticed that doubts have been raised as to whether the alternative formulation that every human being has an inherent right to life can create confusion about Norwegian abortion legislation. The centre party is clear that the fundamental law of the right to life should not create confusion about women's right to abortion. Since we do not want to have any doubts about this, the Center Party supports the constitutional proposal 33, § 93 Right to life. § 102 concerns privacy. Technological developments have led to the collection of personal data in more and more areas of people's lives. Information from different parts of people's working and private lives can be compiled so that the outsider can obtain detailed information about them. For the Centre Party it has a high value to secure privacy in the future. Today's constitutional protection of people's privacy is too weak. The freedom of people depends on any person in Norway feeling confident that one is not being monitored and followed when one does not act in such a way as to pose a threat to the security of the kingdom. The concept of privacy is complex and holds many different interests and values. Privacy involves primarily the protection of home and private spheres. However, privacy concerns also to a large extent protection against improper electronic processing and the use of personal data. There is now a strong need, through the Constitution, to protect both of these aspects of privacy. In most modern institutions, there are provisions on privacy, and provisions on the protection of personal data are on the way. It is important that these values are also brought up in Norway at the same level in the hierarchy of rules of law, such as: the provisions on freedom of expression and information. The centre party will therefore primarily propose option 4 B to new § 102. The Human Rights Committee has proposed a new section 107 of the Constitution on the right to cultural identity and participation in cultural life. These values agree with the Central Party. At the same time, the Human Rights Committee has pointed out that it can be challenging to find a good balance between integration and respect for the individual’s cultural identity. This is a dilemma that the Stortinget is going to solve in concrete matters. The central party generally believes that open paragraphs that create a large room for interpretation are not desirable, as it potentially implies shifting power to the courts. The proposed first paragraph of Section 107 we believe is such an open-ended paragraph. At the same time, the proposed first paragraph of Section 107 will not imply any new clear rights. The Constitution already gives an unambiguous right to free speech and an equally clear right to freedom of association and assembly. The centre party therefore goes towards the new first paragraph of Section 107. The Centre Party supports the proposal for a new second paragraph of § 107, where the freedom of science and art is enshrined in the Constitution. This is a short and clear paragraph. Researchers who can develop new knowledge freely and independently are essential for the development of society. The freedom of research can be pressed in many areas. There is a need for protection against the restriction of state power on the phenomena or issues to be researched, the findings to be published or the artistic works to be produced or carried out. This freedom is of great importance to the formation of opinion and democracy. Paragraph 108 of the Constitution applies to Sami language and culture. In the first interim session of the Joint Committee in 1984, NOU 1984: 18 On the legal position of the Joint Committee, it was concluded that cooperation in all respects is to be regarded as a people. The fact that the draft Constitutional Law section, which was drafted in the Stortinget on 21 September 1984 and adopted as § 110 a 21 April 1988, used the term ‘Samian People’s Group’ was apparently justified by the fact that the Sami people living in Norway were meant here. The paragraph doesn't give the individual any rights. No reference can be made to the paragraph in disputes before the courts on specific rights. However, it provides for the assessments to be taken into account for actions and decisions relating to collective bargaining. There is therefore a certain legal obligation on the part of the State authorities for, inter alia: interpretation of laws and the exercise of discretion in the case of groups. It will not be different if you use the term ‘Samian people’ or for the part ‘Samian as indigenous’. The concept of "ur people" has been developed following a process from 1982 to 2007 led by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in Geneva, where the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples provides a preliminary climax to the 2007 General Assembly decision. In the meantime, the ILO Convention on the Native People's Convention, the Inigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries, was adopted by the ILO in 1989 and ratified by Norway in 1990 as the first country. So far, the ILO Convention is the only legally binding convention on indigenous peoples. On the other hand, the declaration is not legally binding on any country. Throughout the process of the declaration, indigenous peoples have wanted to be referred to as ‘peoples’, ‘peoples with and s’. The term ‘Samian people’ will, of course, also apply to collective cohabitation and, for that matter, is not different from the other two terms mentioned. The term "ur people" is a minimum standard to be used for all groups which have not been involved in the establishment of the national States. It has been necessary to incorporate it in order to achieve a fairly structured dialogue with the most negative national states on minimum standards. It's important to find out that the Samerrechtscommittee in its time concluded that dating is a people. The same political declaration of the 1971 joint conference stated that co-workers are co-workers and will be co-workers without being either more or less than other peoples in the world. Sami organisations have also referred to common seas as a people. The term ‘people’ is much clearer and stronger in both national and international legislation than the term ‘ur people’. It also expresses the equivalence expressed by H.M. the King in 1997 in his speech to Sametinget, by stating that the State of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Northmen and Samer. The Act on Strengthening the Position of Human Rights in Norwegian Law, the Human Rights Act of 21 May 1999, refers, inter alia, to: five conventions as ‘to be governed by Norwegian law to the extent that they are binding on Norway’, among which are the two 1966 UN conventions. People are referred to, but not "ur people". The term ‘people’ therefore has a much stronger position than ‘ur people’. The use of the term ‘Samian people’ does not exclude the presence of indigenous peoples as well. We are therefore voting for the inclusion of the term ‘Samian People’ in the Norwegian Constitution. Paragraph 110 of the Constitution on the right to work and the right to obtain a benefit from their work is the central economic and social right provision of the current Constitution. It entered 1954 and, in the view of the Centre Party, gives a good picture of what is also needed today, and we cannot therefore see that there is a basis for changing that provision. In the case of new Section 112 of the Constitution, it applies to the environment. The provision in § 110(b) of today was incorporated into the Constitution in 1992. It can be seen as a result of UN recommendations through the World Commission on the Environment and Development and should be read as a legally binding provision. This provision should be read as guaranteeing today the right of future generations to an environment that ensures health and a nature in which productive capacity – i.e. fertility – and diversity are preserved. This implies, in the view of the Centre Party, that this constitutional rule prevails before ordinary law if it is contrary to each other. The Party considers that there is a need to clarify the obligation for the authorities to comply with the principles set out in the first subparagraph to implement appropriate and necessary measures to ensure the environment. In the view of the Centre Party, the proposal submitted by all parties other than the Advance Party must be read as an active obligation for the authorities to take action to protect the environment. The Constitutional Paragraph thus clarifies the obligation of authority to comply with the principles of environment that guarantee health, and a nature in which production capacity and diversity are maintained, and that natural resources are to be disposed of on the basis of long-term, comprehensive considerations that safeguard it directly for the offspring – strong and good centre party values. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party No. 4 on new § 108 in Innst. 187 S, as well as the primary and secondary proposals we support in the settings Stortinget is dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1430	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1433	«We are a Nation, we are with» young people have sung on May 17 every year, and now at the 200th anniversary of the Constitution I believe we have almost even greater reason for it, because now the children's own rights as persons come into the Constitution – both civil and some of the social and economic rights. It's time for jam. I'm going to come back to it, I'm going to first establish that human rights are absolutely fundamental values. They're indivisible and universal, and for SV and for me personally, it's the strongest value base. International recognition is one of the most important advances in a historical era where the world is filled with power use and abuse and unrest. These rights are a whole, they're not a buffet one can choose from as one will, as the Right Party and the Advance Party obviously believe. The UN Committee on Human Rights has interpreted it this way since 1948. There is general international support for this view. Lawyers coded during the hearing agreed to this, so this is not a vision that is especially for SV. It is the Right Party and the Progress Party that are solely concerned with the interpretations that it is possible to select selectively the human rights which must be regarded as important among the social, economic and cultural rights. Ranking the rights is not a proud story. All these rights are important because the civil and political can only become reality in a community, where the state at the highest level commits itself to respect for precisely these rights of all. The rights represent a social view, a human vision and a whole that SV will shape and govern the world and Norway, this protection of individuals and minorities in committed communities in a state to be governed democratically. It is essential for the rights to be asserted to the State. Therefore, human rights are precisely fundamental obligations in the relationship between state and individual. The point of writing them down is that they must be ensured in the Constitution in order to be adequately and strongly protected. The question is how far a majority will go in committing themselves in advance to the concrete results that can go against them — in other words, to commit to strengthening the social value foundation, as Professor Carsten Smith said in hearings in the Control and Constitutional Committee. That's exactly what this is about. Here are the political dividing lines. Ordinary laws, including the Human Rights Act, which predominates in ordinary law on a daily basis, may be repealed by a general majority of the Stortinget. It's only a choice and protection can be gone, both on these rights and on many of the economic and social rights. The question is whether this is how the Right Party and the Advance Party want it to be. Basic legislation — on the other hand — requires that they be presented for one major period, and that there is a major choice between them, so that people can say clearly in elections whether they believe Norway should change/remove its human rights obligations under the Constitution. What we are doing today – which should be a whole, and unfortunately not a whole – is giving greater muscle and resistance to changing fundamental human rights to which we have committed ourselves. Obviously, both civil and political and economic, social and cultural rights were to be enshrined in law. Attaching only the civil and political laws shows a lack of understanding of the whole. The Convention is a complete one; both main texts must exist in order to implement the Universal Declaration and other human rights obligations. Not adopting both is a retreat, greeting a party that has progressed in its name, and it is most perceptive that the Right is at it. Now, Norway of all countries should not see it as a matter of principle important to give all its citizens some of the most important rights of the welfare state highest rank through the Constitution. Internationally, it is said that these rights are seen together. This is about what we want with Norway. SV wants rights to apply to all and to be an overriding objective and obligation of the State. Countries with small differences do the best and are safest. That is why we need to strengthen this in the future, because it strengthens the security for us and the opportunities for Norway to succeed as a nation, and for all people in Norway to be guaranteed the opportunity to succeed. In political quarters today – to which I listened – it seemed as if the Right said that they thought that social, economic and cultural human rights were a social democratic invention, and that is why they would not be on them. It would have been nice to clarify it today, if that is the case. I believe that at least the policies of the left-hand side must be implemented in order to meet also the economic, social and cultural obligations. Yes, I also think they are absolutely the best in terms of civil and political rights. But it could be important to get this established. In today's debate, the representative of the Right says that the social rights are in the periphery of human rights. I've never heard anyone say that you're politically against them because that means you commit to a distribution policy that's going to apply even in bad times. It would have been real to say: it's honest, it's old-fashioned right-wing policy, but that's what it is. But saying that this is in the periphery of human rights is wrong. It's a fundamental error, but it's been a matter of political justification. I started with the kids, and I want to keep going with them now. It is very important, what is now included in the Constitution to ensure children’s right to be heard, a co-determination that says that in actions and decisions relating to children – ‘ongoing’ may remain standing, it should be said ‘intractors’, but it comes in some of the other paragraphs of the paragraph – the consideration of the child’s best interests should be a fundamental consideration. Children are full-fledged citizens, but because they are children and depend on adults, the state has to take special responsibility for protecting them from violence, for being respected as human beings, for going to school and developing, even if they have health problems. I am a little surprised that it is not a single big deal that wants the state to have a special responsibility to protect children from abuse. The fact that it's not a unanimous big deal that's behind it is one of the big questions in this debate. We have been critical of the majority wanting a wording that says that the authorities should facilitate the development of the child, preferably in their own family. The reason for our scepticism is that it is precisely in cases where the family fails, that the protection of children must be the responsibility of the authorities. That is because the responsibility of the state is most important. The Children’s Ombudsman and UNICEF have pointed out that such a supplement could lead to excessive emphasis on the biological principle in relation to children’s rights. This is a question that has changed in recent years. SV has been in government and brought about changes that make it more important that the children who need the protection of society, sometimes against their own family, get it – these children have told us that the rights of adults have weighed too heavily. I and SV do not believe that those who are now in favour of this wording mean to weaken the child's protection. But it would have been very good if the people behind this phrase could cancel it -- that now you don't want to go into a fight about the biological principle, and by that, we believe, the children who need the protection of society all, most of all. The fact that there are now also rights to education is good. There is a majority for wording, but not a common wording. SV will, of course, vote subsidiaryly on many of these points, including this, so that we get rights into the Constitution. Then it is the children's right to education that is absolutely essential, and if children have a right, society has no obligation and parents have no opportunity to prevent it. Asylum has been an important part of the debate. It is the most fundamental right to life, freedom from persecution, torture and inhuman punishment and the death penalty. This court is actually really threatened in the world today, and then it's too small to see that the Constitution is just going to reflect on what we have in Norway. That there will not be a majority to ensure the right of asylum, which is a clear human right, that the Right now shadows away from this fundamental human right, I almost find shocking. The right has had clear, principled positions. The Progress Party of the Government has repeatedly called for the withdrawal or weakening of Norway’s obligations in respect of the Refugee Convention. It is therefore becoming particularly critical that these two parties in the Grand Duchy are now ensuring that the right to asylum is prevented from being protected by fundamental law and cannot be revoked or terminated by a simple majority during one majorisation period. I would ask the Right to think, because they know that this Convention saves lives, and that it is important in a world full of war that Norway's role internationally as a defender of such an important and fundamental human right is not weakened by the exclusion of the right to asylum when Norway now writes human rights into the constitution. Its richer, its saviors, the more we lose contact with what is absolutely fundamental to human rights, I think it seems. In this constitutional audit there has also been a discussion about the right to life and that the wording that someone wants to get into the Constitution would be an abortion fight. We're going to have to believe those who say it's not. We have just committed ourselves to a serious and violent political dispute in Norway, all of which have assured us that this was not a rematch, but today we are promoting the proposal that can be fully interpreted as a rematch on the abortion law. There has also been a round here of freedom of expression and religion. I believe that the majority places too little emphasis on the strong power factor religion is, in families, in community and all the way up to states. It is dangerous for people to criticize religion — for some in Norway, but especially internationally. It is important that Norway denounces this, for these are strong power structures. They go straight into the human mind and have very great power. We believe it would have been necessary to say this directly. As regards protection against discrimination, SV promotes a principle proposal to mention all grounds of discrimination. I have to say that I do not fully agree with the version that the rapporteur had at this point, because in the wording that we also promote, it says ‘like essential relationships of a person’. It's opaque, if you're in doubt if you've managed to mention everyone. Voting in favour of SV's proposal in principle there will not raise the questions raised by the rapporteur-in-Office at this point. I will end with a few words that Carsten Smith said in a hearing: it blows cold wins out in the world. The rights are under pressure. So let's look at 1814. The Constitution was created for a period of war and distress, and what was the Constitution's answer? Civil rights were the answer. We must have the long time perspective. Reforms will apply to some of us, but of course they will point most to the future, to my grandchildren, to everyone's grandchildren, and to the great-grandchildren. What we are doing today is to ensure greater security for fundamental rights – not the kind of security created by increased control and monitoring, but greater security for civil liberties to survive. I refer to the suggestions in the settings where SV is a co-sponsor, which may not have been addressed until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1479	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1482	It is an honorable mission to debut as a big-time representative today, in the debate on the fundamental law-making of the most central human rights. But also for the Green Party, as a party and as a movement, it is great to be able to take part in this, as clear evidence that the values and principles of society are dynamic, that new times are creating new challenges, that new generations are making new priorities, and that our democracy and our electoral system, enshrined in our constitution, allow both the existing and the new to be expressed in this Chamber. I hope that the development of democracy will also be expressed today, by finally including central, international values in our nation's most important law collection. The constitution of Norway is much more than the Constitution. Also, the Basic Law itself changes and develops not only through constitutional changes in this room, but also through interpretation of paragraphs and changes in their use, through unwritten, constitutional customs, as they are called, and through supplementary rules at a lower level. The problem is that these relationships, and the context in all of this, are relatively inaccessible to most of those to which the Constitution applies. It is by looking up in the very text of the constitution that a person expects to find the most central principles of the relationship between the state and the individual in our society. After we got a modernisation of the language and two different target forms last week, there are now also a lot more people who can understand what it says. The next step is that those who live today take ownership of the content and the history of the law's development, Norway's history. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have called for the minimisation of the limited number of economic, social and cultural human rights proposed in the Constitution, in the fear that many non-obligatory or ‘political signals’, as the representative Tetzschner referred to earlier today, without positive legal force, will weaken our constitution. When the Norwegian Constitution was created by some hectic and optimistic men in 1814, it was primarily forward-looking and visionary. There were few who at that time were concerned about whether the Constitution was diluted with tumultuous formulations of freedom and popular rule, even though they were far from the democracy we have today, and so they took complete water over their heads. No one was at the time afraid of becoming historyless or without identity by learning from other cultures and nations and opening up their arms to the development that Norway was part of internationally. Had the fathers of the Constitution been most concerned not to break the past, we might not have had any foundation in 1814, and who knows if we would still be in union with one of our neighbours. It seems, of course, but it's still too important to remember this with history, and it's been referred to history writing earlier today in a quite different context. It is not only in the past that history is created; we do so today too – here and now. If anyone remembers what we do, on the other hand, is up to us – how forward-looking, bold and visionary we allow ourselves to be – and I hope that what will be remembered from this hall today is not accusations of so-called horse trade, but is a real boost to the Norwegian Constitution, by bringing in the most important international values in our society. The Constitution has already been adjusted and updated many times since 1814 — as many as three-quarters of the Basic Law paragraphs have changed to a greater or lesser extent in the last 200 years. This doesn't mean that the Constitution is something we have to change on every occasion. We can be proud that our constitution is Europe's oldest and the second oldest in the world, because we have not at any time rejected it, but rather gradually renewed it. The basis for the mandate of the Human Rights Committee was precisely the recognition that the Constitution does not reflect values that have become central to Norwegian society and to our work internationally. We all broadly agree that the purpose of the fundamental law of rights is not the material, legal effect, but rather the protection of our main principles, making them visible and giving them the rank of the constitution, that is. make them more difficult to reject by changing governments. We in the Green Party believe that by not taking in the central, social and economic rights, the Constitution remains a symbol or a curiousness more than a living constitution, because it remains more a tale of what we once were, not of what we are today. The Greens will therefore vote in favour of the entire proposed human rights catalogue, preferably the short and clear options. This is in line with the purpose of the review of the Human Rights Committee, namely to ‘ensure the general principles of human rights in the Constitution and not to obtain a list of individual rights, which naturally belong to ordinary law’. I remember that the Human Rights Committee also asks that we see the proposals in the context – as a catalogue. However, on one point in particular, we particularly disagree with the sample, and the first specific matter I should mention is the right to apply for asylum. We will, together with the SV, the Left and the Christian People's Party – and the Workers' Party, I now receive signals from the Chamber – vote to legislate this right. The statement to the Human Rights Committee is most directed at the formulation of the right of refugees to asylum, i.e. not the right to apply for asylum. The reference is that one is afraid that it will not have a concrete effect, which is therefore not an argument against taking in very many of the other rights for which the sample has been accepted. By giving this undisputed right the rank of the Constitution and thus raising it above the law on foreigners, we remind ourselves of Norway's humanitarian obligations, but also of who the nation of Norway is. The nation of Norway is not just people who are born here and grew up here with Norwegian parents. The nation of Norway is part of a world where conflicts, oppression and not least climate change and hunger are part of the everyday life of many. I therefore believe that it is far more alarming not to include and not even mention the institution of asylum in our institution, than it is to include it, at least in terms of the right to apply for asylum, which is completely undisputed. The core of the right of asylum is interpreted in the EMC by the European Court of Human Rights, and the hearing bodies, such as the Association of Lawyers, the Association of Judges, the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights at the University of Oslo and the Juss-Buss, agree that the proposal is good and that it will not create material legal changes. I would also like to highlight the importance of a new Section 102 on privacy. Today’s Constitution does not provide for respect for privacy, privacy or data protection. That this is a problem has been pointed out by the NOU Privacy Commission in 2009, Individual and Integrity. The Greens are very pleased that today the Storting seems to want to legislate that everyone has the right to respect for their privacy and family life, their home and their communication, that house searches should not take place, and that the government should also ensure the protection of privacy. It should now be stated in the notes that this should also be interpreted as allowing the systematic collection, storage and use of personal data of others to take place only under law. The Green Party is part of a minority who want this clarification of data protection into the Constitution itself, not just into the notes, which are very few readers. The protection against just collecting, using and storing personal data is a good historical basis for giving the status of Constitution. Because of technological developments, this is also a concern for many, and the legal protection you have as a citizen is unknown and unclear to many. As the Constitutional text now stands, it is not clear that the personal tracks and information that you put away in your everyday life are yours. It does not appear that Facebook and Google have to ask Norwegian citizens for law before they can store or sell personal information, or that the state authorities do not have the right to collect information for no particular reason under law. I therefore hope that more people today will consider voting in favour of Option 1 B together with the Green, SV and Christian People's Party, and I expect the Centre Party and the Left to vote in a subsidiary way for this proposal. The last concrete proposal I would like to comment on is the proposal for a new section 104 on the rights of children. Today, 25 years after the international establishment of children’s rights in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, Norway appears to incorporate several of the most important principles into its constitution. Finally, we give the order of the Constitution that children have a special need for protection and organisation, for the protection of their integrity and development, and that they have the right to be heard in matters relating to them. Since children's rights have also been among the rights that are least known, especially for those relating to them, i.e. the children themselves, I believe that the fundamental law will provide a necessary boost for information and visibility in this area – and for this area in particular. Now that the Storting has this opportunity to strengthen the rights of the child, it is at the same time difficult to understand why all the major parties, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, are in favour of the provision in the first paragraph which restricts the right of children to be heard, to questions relating to them directly. The alternative, such as The Greens are in favour of hearing the child about issues that concern it, even if the issue itself does not directly concern the child. That children are entitled to participation and influence is a central part of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and one of its four main principles. The most important decisions for the child often do not apply directly to the child, but it is affected because the questions relate to its parents, to its schooling or to its environment. I am uncertain – although this has now been put in as a comment – whether it is now unambiguous in the interpretation of our constitution that the child should be heard in such cases as well. Both human rights and the Constitution are legal tools, while they are also symbols of our key values, and this has been a recurring theme today. Values are – basically – the policy is about, and I rarely meet people who are concerned that the Storting spends too much time on principles, values and especially visions, that it is too often discussed what is most important to us as a society, or what gives citizens real security, pride and motivation to participate and influence. In a society that has long since surpassed itself in material prosperity, technological development and access to information, it may be the most basic values that need extra protection. By legislating the proposed human rights catalogue, we do two things at once. We give our most basic values – the ones we teach our children in the classroom, and the ones we promote internationally – the rank of the constitution. At the same time, we're doing the grip that's the real celebration of the Constitution's 200th anniversary, that's to make the Constitution closer, recognizable and tangible to the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1526	It has already been said several times, from several – and we agree – that the Constitution is Norway’s main legal document. It determines the basis of our legal order and of our legal status. But the Constitution is also an essential political document. It is the law of the people, which is to protect the individual from abuse by the rulers. It is also a document that will describe our society as it is today, and preferably also how we want it to be designed for the future. The changes we are about to make today are mostly about the latest – about the future. Democracy is the prerequisite for all of this. The Constitution of 1814 placed emphasis on the rule of the people, thus giving Norway a stable democracy. Now it's important and right to expand this perspective. The Constitution has also been crucial for the development of Norwegian society to become a humanistic society, and a society characterised by equivalency. It has not been in the way of political decisions that have given us the welfare society we live in today. The political, but just as much social and cultural, development in our country, has led us until this day, May 13, 2014, to what few – or maybe I can hardly say – with seriousity will claim not to be a good thing: that we have a society of small inequalities. The struggles and political disagreements between the right and the left have been many and large, without the Constitution having stood in the way of this. The fight between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy will continue with the changes to the Constitution that we are implementing today. For this development, the representatives of Eidsvoll, who themselves disagreed on the fundamental point, but who put the people in the centre, so that the people would choose their representatives with different views and solutions. The Constitution of 1814 laid the foundations of democracy and democracy. When we stand here today and we're going to implement the greatest constitutional change in 200 years, then it's a celebration, and that's what's called a historic moment. The Constitution has its new language. It was a big and important first step. With a modern language, we have brought the Constitution closer – or rather back – to the people. Through today's treatment, we are able to modernise the Constitution – not to the extent that the Workers' Party wants, but to the extent that the majority will vote in favour. Civil and political rights are intended to guarantee the fundamental rights of the individual, as we have in Norway today, but which we cannot guarantee for the future. These changes are made in order to safeguard the unconditional right of future generations to inviolable human rights, such as the right to life and freedom from slavery and torture, so that neither future nor future nor future Nordics can be imprisoned unconditionally, but be guaranteed an independent court and fair trial, in order not to be discriminated against, but to have freedom of thought, to join associations and to marry whomever they wish. Not least, I too, as several of my colleagues in the Grand Duchy have already done, would like to draw attention to the rights of children. It is high time that the Norwegian population brought children’s rights into the Constitution. For how important it is not to do this for the first time – to ensure them the right to the necessary social, economic and health protection, to guarantee our children freedom from violence, abuse, sexual exploitation and similar conditions, which can, of course, harm the children of future generations. I would also like to highlight the economic, social and cultural human rights, which are, of course, inseparably linked to the civilians. For how can we vote freely in elections if we cannot read? And how can we live freely and democratically without security for our health? I had hoped that when the day was over, we could say to each other that we had really fulfilled this, that we had as much power as the mariners. The Labour Party has taken its position, as it has already been explained in a very good and thorough manner by our main rapporteur, Mr. Jette Christensen. The fundamental view of the Workers' Party is, as it has emerged, that human rights are well safeguarded in our other legislation and through our acceptance and ratification of international conventions. But it is a rich and modern nation worthy that our own constitution also defines and determines human rights. I hear in the debate – not so much here today, but in many debates that have taken place before this debate – here in the United Kingdom votes that say that this cannot be so important, because we already have all these rights. I have three things to say to that argument: The first is that the development of politics and democracy is not just rational. Symbol and political will expressed through constitutional decisions, because they are political decisions and political opinions in our constitution, will be of great importance, including for the future. It's like it was said by a speaker right in front of me here, that if they had thought 100 pst. rationally at Eidsvoll, probably many of the formulations that came in had not come in, and we could get a whole different society. That is why I believe that there is a basis for pushing that argument back. It is important that the provisions are incorporated into the Constitution. The second is the substantial preparatory work done by the Wage Committee and the extensive work of the Control and Constitutional Committee now, but also during the previous period. I see that our Minister of Justice is present, and I allow myself to produce a homage to him because he was at the head of the previous preparation, which laid the foundation for what we are doing today. A more extensive preparatory work for a constitutional change may not have had this big change at any time. We are on a very solid basis when we are going to take these decisions — possibly reject them — at a later date today. The third is that the Constitution of 1814 decided and gave leadership to our 200-year history of constitution. It was not easy for a time-limited majority to determine another development. It's a little bit criticized, exactly that sentence. But isn't that what we have the Constitution for? Is that not what the Constitution intends – that it should just lay the foundations for society as it is today, and as it should be in the future, and that it should not be done at random by a majority? That's what the Constitution is all about. So I reject the criticism that arises in these areas, quite often. For as I have heard and understood the greatness of today, there is a broad consensus on the correctness and importance of human rights, but also on the core of the welfare state. The Right Party and the Progressive Party continue to stress that the welfare state and the welfare society are also their own work, and that they support it. But when they arrive at the moment, they fail at several points. Representatives of the Workers' Party are going to get closer to this, but I want to say it this way: we're coming up with the proposals for some of the civil and political rights and about our environment, work and education. But when the right parties oppose health, well-being and freedom for art and for science, it becomes only halfway – of course. What are the arguments? I don't understand them, at least not as they are written. And why such a random choice? Why education? Why not health? It has been mentioned in the debate. We don't get any answers. It would be good if, before we went to voting, we could get some final answers and some articulate, understandable arguments for exactly these random choices -- why they vote for something, and why not for other things. The Constitution shall describe today's society. Therefore, the Labour Party considers that the full scope of rights should be adopted. Neither is formulated as rights for the individual, but as a duty for the State. The working party has taken an overall position. It is that the civil and political rights are closely linked to the economic, social and cultural rights. They constitute a whole that is interdependent if individual human security and freedom are to be well ensured through the Constitution for future generations. It is quite clear from the setting where the separator lines are going. Now, as always, in individual cases and when the basis for the long development in Norway is to be determined, it is the centre-left that will, and the right-hand side that will not. This is – unfortunately – in line with Norwegian political tradition. But the important thing is that it repeats here today – that’s what’s important. Prominent representatives of the right-wing parties do not accept these fundamental contexts that I have outlined here, and as a majority of the majority in the Grand Duchy is behind them – because there is a majority in the Grand Duchy behind them. A little contemptuously, they don't want to legitimize social democracy. Well, it actually reveals their basic thinking about social, economic and cultural rights. It's the fear that the Constitution will stand in the way of the market-driven society that is their real reason and reluctance. There's the thing. I will characterize this with one word: immature. It is not the centre-left side that is immature in this room today – it is the right side that is immature. No pay didn't mean this. He stood at the head of a work that in any case will be going to put tracks behind him. I allow myself to say that my former colleague Per-Kristian Foss did not mean this either. He was enthusiastic about introducing these proposals. There are today's big crowd in the Right with Michael Tetzschner in the head who stop many of these important proposals, including: So the right to health. That the Stortinget today does not adopt a full revision of the Constitution, after so much preparation, and paradoxically not the Right-Man Inge Wohnen's thorough work, the Progress Party must – but it has always been that way with the Advance Party, so I can't say anything more about it – and above all take the current historical responsibility for it. That's the thing, I mean. At the end of my article, I'm going to deal with the minority proposals that we're alone about, and those that we're together with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1577	The representative Martin Kolberg has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1580	This is a historic day in many ways. 200 years after the owners made sure that we put in place one of the world's most liberal and progressive constitutions, we are now adopting an improved constitution in the same spirit. Knowing that I am going to join all the others in this room on the adoption of a new and improved constitution makes me very proud, and the whole Storting has every reason to feel proud today. We have put in place a paragraph that emphatically affirms the responsibility of the state to guarantee human rights. We get a paragraph in place that guarantees all people the right to life and protection against torture, slavery and other degrading treatment. We have in place a protection against disproportionate detention, protection against double penalties, we have to establish the presumption of innocence, we have to establish freedom of movement and other important principles of the rule of law. We have in place a protection against discrimination that ensures that no one is indiscriminately discriminated against, and we have in place a clarification of the freedom of organisation, assembly and protection against privacy violations. We're going to get a number of points about children's rights, for example. that children should be consulted on questions relating to themselves and that the best interests of children should be a fundamental consideration in matters relating to children. Children are also provided with the necessary economic, social and health protection. We clarify the responsibility of the state to safeguard the natural environment, and in particular we guarantee children's right to receive basic training, as well as access to higher and higher education. This becomes a constitution we can be very proud of. At the same time, I am pleased that the Constitution retains its mark of being a document that essentially regulates the relationship between state powers and limits the exercise of power by the state. It is in line with what the Constitution has been until now, and it is in line with what the Right believes that the Constitution should be. Then there are some people who have been problematizing that we are voting against some so-called ESC rights, among other things. this is about health care. It's about what view we have of the Constitution, simple and simple. The right has gone to the choice on - and won the choice on - among others. a better health care system, and we do not believe that the Constitution is a document for listing everything we are for. Then someone has said that we're going to work today to fail the future. It's incalculable and falling on its own unreasonableness. I also believe that it is the Workers' Party that has failed faith and confidence in the voters of the future and the politicians of the future. I firmly believe that future politicians can make good policy, and I believe that future voters will vote for those who make the best policy. Then there's someone who's been problematic about us being in favour of children's rights and the right to basic education. The last speaker, the representative of Kolberg, called it inconsistency and little in principle. It's not right, it's very consistent, and it's very much in principle, because we've been very busy ensuring that all people get equal opportunities in society -- opportunity -- a good start to life. Then a good growing-up environment and a right to basic education are very important in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1595	First of all, I want to commend the Human Rights Committee, led by now deceased Professor Inge Wohnning, for a thorough and good work on investigating and promoting proposals for a limited revision of the Constitution with the aim of giving the rank of fundamental human rights fundamental law, as is also evident from the report of the sample to the Stortinget, cf. Document 16 for 2011-2012. The report will also serve as a useful reference for, among other things. to see how human rights protection is handled in other institutions, how human rights are interpreted, what human rights are at the heart and which are judged to be more peripheral, etc. In the matters we are dealing with today, we are going to decide which human rights are to be legally strengthened by giving them the protection of the Constitution. For the sake of respect for the Constitution, the party of progress will not be filled in by vague, discretionary programme declarations without any real content. If they remain, they will either be seen as non-binding political programme declarations or, if the courts go in and give them content, i.e.: the legalisation of the provisions shall be outside the scope of the legislator. The whole point of including human rights in the Constitution is that the provisions should be difficult to transform. In practice, one then left to the courts to decide on these questions. So far, the Supreme Court has been careful to intervene or intervene in these provisions. But this can change in the future. As regards the protection of human rights under the Basic Law, this is already covered by the Basic Law, Section 2, which reads: «The basis of values remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’.» This clearly shows that the Constitution must guarantee human rights and that human rights are given status in line with democracy and the rule of law. In addition to this, there are today proposals for a new Section 92, which is an initial provision on human rights and is expected to receive the required two-thirds majority. These sounds: «The authorities of the Member States shall respect and ensure human rights as defined in this Constitution and in the Treaties on Human Rights binding on Norway.» For the Progress Party, it is this approach and respect for the Constitution that will govern our position as to whether or not the various proposals for constitutional protection should be accepted. The issues we are dealing with today are, on the one hand, a shortage of so-called civil and political human rights, on the other, a shortage of economic, social and cultural human rights, the so-called ESC rights. In addition, there are some other proposals that can also be seen as human rights, which we have to decide on. During the work of the Human Rights Committee, the committee member Carl Ivar Hagen took hers, and he announced that he could not join the selection's proposal for Sections 104, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 115 and 116. Paragraph 104 belongs to what is defined as civil and political rights, while the others belong to the ESC rights. I'd like to quote from Carl I. Hagen's special remark: ‘Human rights committee member Carl I. Hagen has long been uncertain as to the reasonableness and appropriateness of a multi-legislative law combining clear legal rules with non-binding programme declarations and symbolic long-term objectives.’ And on the other hand, ‘However, when the sample is to consider the introduction of central human rights, an active position needs to be taken and an assessment of the rights referred to in many conventions that are at the heart of it. It is also true that if a constitution is filled with idealistic objectives and programme declarations that most people consider to be unrealistic dreams without legal effects, this could lead to a weakening of central rights both in reputation and in real law.’ The Party of Progress agrees with these points of view. In the light of the opinion of the Progress Party, civil and political rights should be enshrined in fundamental law in particular. Basic legislation on ESC rights, if they are given real content, can provide the basis for a very expensive welfare country which can impose high taxes and taxes, which may once again stifle sensible economic developments. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it should be up to the legislator and the granting authorities to decide how far they will go and not to the courts to assess such issues. In the context of the Committee's work on the Constitution towards the anniversary of the Constitution, it is linguistic renewal and human rights that have been the subject. It's been natural to see this in context. In order to ensure a large majority for linguistic renewal of the Basic Law, the Progress Party has taken the initiative towards the other parties to try to gather around an alternative that can bring together a two-thirds majority, and we have thereby moved from our original position in four paragraphs to meet the wishes of the Christian People's Party, so that the Christian People's Party in turn could move from its original position on linguistic renewal to vote for the proposals made by the Progress Party. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party for good and constructive cooperation on these matters, as well as the other participating parties who saw that this was the solution to achieve a linguistic renewal and, in addition, to have a new Norwegian version. So over to the individual proposals, and I start with the civil and political rights. § 92, introductory provisions under civil and political rights: the Progress Party is in favour of Option 2 B, which reads: «The authorities of the Member States shall respect and ensure human rights as defined in this Constitution and in the Treaties on Human Rights binding on Norway.» This is one of the paragraphs on which we agreed with the Christian People's Party and others, by attaching the Constitution to the treaties on human rights that we have made binding on our country. § 94, Detention: The Advance Party shall vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation. § 95, Fair Courts/Independent Courts: The Advance Party votes in favour of the Committee's recommendation, i.e. Option 2B. § 96, the presumption of innocence/prohibition of double-punishment/protection against full renunciation of property: The party voting for the committee's recommendation. It should be noted here that the third paragraph is deferred by the Committee for further consideration, and we will therefore come back to this when it comes to reality. § 98, the principle of equality and non-discrimination: the party voting for the Committee's recommendation and voting for the second paragraph of option 1 and not accepting a new third paragraph, in accordance with the Committee's recommendation. § 99, freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief in life: The Progress Party votes in favour of the Committee's recommendation, i.e. the proposal for a new Section 99 is not accepted and the first sentence of Section 16 is not deleted. § 101, Freedom of association and assembly: The Progress Party shall vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation. § 102, privacy and data protection: The Progress Party votes in favour of the Committee's recommendation. § 104, children's rights: This is also a paragraph that is part of the agreement with the Christian People's Party and others, and we are in favour of option 1 B, first paragraph, which reads: ‘Children are entitled to respect for their human dignity. They have the right to be heard on questions relating to themselves, and their opinion shall be weighted in accordance with their age and development.» In the second paragraph, we follow the Committee's recommendation, which reads: ‘In actions and decisions relating to children, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental.’; In the third paragraph, we are included in minority proposals together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, which reads as follows: ‘Children have the right to protection of their personal integrity. State authorities shall facilitate the development of the child, including ensuring that the child is provided with the necessary economic, social and health protection, preferably within his or her own family.» § 114, right of appeal of the courts: the Committee has decided to postpone the examination of this paragraph to another meeting, and we will return to it then. § 49, free and secret elections: Here the Progress Party joins the Committee's recommendation. Then I'll go over to the ESC privileges. As mentioned at the outset, the member of the Human Rights Committee, Carl I. Hagen, was selected by not joining the proposals made under the ESC rights of Sections 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 115 and 116. The Progress Party has closed this gap and has therefore not accepted any of the proposals. It is noted that § 115 is deferred until later treatment, and we will return to this then. Finally, I would like to comment on proposals that have been put forward outside the civil and political rights and ESC rights. In Document 12:14 there is a proposal to legislate on the right to apply and to obtain asylum. I have explained this earlier as the rapporteur, and the Progress Party does not support the proposal. In Document 12:15 there is a proposal on freedom of expression and religion in Section 100. The proposal is to insert the word ‘religion’ as one of the areas in which one can express oneself. The Progress Party does not see that one should point to a particular area that can be externally addressed, as this is well covered by today’s legal text. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is not in favour of this proposal. In Document 12:32, 12:33 and 12:16 various variations of proposals for the right to life and the prohibition of the death penalty are made in Section 93. This is also a paragraph that is part of the agreement with the Christian People's Party, and the Advance Party is in favour of Option 1 B, as it appears in Document 12:33. This sounds like: «Every human being has the right to life. No one can be judged to death. No one shall be subjected to torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. No one shall be kept in slavery or forced labor. The authorities of the State shall protect the right to life and fight torture, slavery, forced labour and other forms of inhuman or degrading treatment.’;» Documents 12:34 and 12:35 propose the right to establish a family. This is also a paragraph which is part of the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party, and here goes the Progress Party together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party and forms minority proposals for the proposal in 12:34, which reads: ‘Family is a basic unit of society. Anyone who has reached the age of marriage has the right to form a family, to marry and to dissolve marriage in accordance with the provisions laid down by law. Marriage may be concluded only with the consent and free will of the spouses.» Finally, I would like to make it clear once again that when the Progress Party votes against a number of the proposed paragraphs, it is not because we disagree with the material content of the paragraph, but we disagree with the fundamental law of these in line with the reasons for the vote that we have initially given. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposals and other proposals on which we have been involved in these areas. I have previously mentioned our proposal in case No. 5, therefore, I refer to the proposals in case No. One, two, three, four, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1710	The representative Helge Thorheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1714	Our constitution is one of the oldest in the world. It stands well in our time as well. Every year it has been a symbol of freedom and independence. The Constitution has helped to bring together the nation of Norway across social teams and generations. It has been an important tool in Norway's struggle for freedom and for the establishment of modern democracy. For these reasons, the constitution of the future should make visible and ensure the general value base of the country, i.e. ensuring democracy, the rule of law and human rights, as formulated in the Constitutional Law, Section 2. In today's constitution, only some of the central human rights are involved. Those who read the Constitution can therefore get a distorted and deficient picture of the values on which the Norwegian society is based. For the Constitution to be a living document, all the central human rights must be secured. This has also been the background for the Christian People's Party's involvement in this important constitutional work. The Human Rights Committee, led by Inge Wohnung, has provided a very thorough work and provided the Stortinget with a good foundation to strengthen the position of human rights in national law by proposing to give the rank of fundamental human rights. The rights of the Basic Law should, as far as possible, reflect and realise the individual's freedom, equality and human dignity, as expressed in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC. It is important to take account of the importance of the Constitution as a symbol for the nation of Norway, but also as a legal and political document. It has been important, on the part of the Christian People's Party, to have central human rights with a content that can be tried on a principle basis, even if the meaning of the provisions will also be valuable and political. The Committee's position shows that the discussion of the political and civil rights to be included was marked by greater consensus than that of the economic and social rights, the so-called ESC rights. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have been concerned about a constitutional audit that has not been able to take the whole perspective seriously, as the Wage Committee suggested. We believe that the incorporation of only selected human rights into the Constitution that do not have the power to take this overall perspective can actually help to weaken the position of human rights in our country – which was hardly the intention. Because we're also going to say that a fundamental law of rights in line with the Wage Committee does not change the actual legal situation here in the country. The central rights have already been made into Norwegian law by the Human Rights Act of 1999. The scare picture that has been drawn by some that if central human rights were made into Norwegian law, a restriction on political power would probably hardly have been said to have turned on. It was feared that the judiciary would be dishonoured by lawsuits against the state because it does not discharge the right to work, education or social security, but we have not seen anything more about that – although this has been Norwegian law for 15 years. It is therefore difficult to understand the strong resistance of the Right Party and the Progressive Party to include in the Constitution central rights of an economic and social nature. Taking human rights into the Constitution means, first of all, that we stress basic moral requirements for the legal system and the individual's position. No one knows the future, but if it is to be challenging and influenced by a less democratic system, it is precisely the stability, clarity and power of a human law constitution that can prove to be very decisive. As was said by this speaker in the debate on the constitutional language a week ago, it has been important on the part of the Christian People's Party to clarify where to some extent one has seen these two issues in context, even though they are initially completely different. At some point, it was uncertain what and how many of the human rights proposals would have the necessary majority. From our point of view, it is essential that if human rights are to be incorporated into the Constitution, the central rights of both civil, political and economic-social nature should be included – and formulated in a way that leaves no doubt that they are closely linked to the international human rights conventions. When the Christian People's Party took an initiative to solve the language issue by contributing to a two-thirds majority for a language modernisation, it became interconnected in our view with important formulations in key paragraphs on human rights. The result of these discussions led the Christian People's Party, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Green Party, to a consensus on important principles. One of them, which is not the Green Party, is about the link between human rights in the Constitution and international human rights in a more clear and comprehensive way. This applies to § 92, Option 2 B. That the Left has also given its support to this option in the setting, and now, after the setting is given, the Right subsidiary also signals a vote that supports this, we will express joy over. This wording of the provision is important for several reasons. Firstly, it ensures that one avoids undermining the importance of human rights which are not specifically mentioned in the Constitution. Another important factor is to avoid different interpretations of the fundamental human rights in relation to the Treaty rights. The reference ‘binding Treaties’ helps to ensure that national law is closely linked to the law based on the international conventions. Internationally, it is a significant problem today that some countries do not provide for coherence in legislation. One experiences that some countries that have acceded to the International Conventions on Human Rights adopt laws that are in fact in clear contradiction with the Treaty provisions. Norway should seek clarity and coherence. Although the rights catalogue in the Basic Law is Norwegian, it is of great importance to highlight the link and coherence with the international universal human rights. It will also strengthen Norway’s legitimacy when applying the same treaties to other countries in order to make them respect human rights. A lack of links with the international treaties in our own rights catalogue could easily have been seen as relativising the content. It could weaken Norway’s role internationally and deprive Norway of the role we currently have internationally as a stabilising factor. This reference is also set out in § 110c of the Constitution of today. Disposing of this paragraph without preserving it in the new catalogue of rights could give a wrong signal. The demonstration of the Treaty contributes to home clarity and, at the same time, strengthens the protection of human rights outside. It is an important matter for the Christian People's Party to have an impact, and I will therefore underline the importance of the good cooperation that has been between these parties in order to put this in place. I would like to express my great pleasure at the fact that this wording has now received such broad support. The right to life is one of the most central human rights. The right to life and to personal freedom are also fundamental values in our Western cultural circle. From the point of view of the Christian People's Party, this is a principle which should also be reflected in the very Constitution. It is an important principle and will be necessary manifestation that respect for life and human dignity continue to shape our society. That's why it's positive that there's now a total accumulation that will have a constitutional rule on the right to life. The Christian People’s Party has promoted a proposal for the formulation of the principle that the right to life should apply to ‘from conception to natural death’ — a proposal that has also been promoted in several previous periods. With regard to our proposal for the formulation of the principle, modern science today can tell that the fetus is an individual of the human species from conception. From that moment on, the genetic code that governs the development of fully evolved human beings is in place, and given the right external conditions, the fertilized egg itself will control its development, the emergence of the organs and the further growth of the body. This is today, not a controversial assertion, but a biological fact. That is why unborn life also has a human dignity and needs legal protection because it is human. So how this is to be implemented in practice is a question that needs to be clarified in legislation in each field. Human dignity is not conditional on gender, ethnic origin, age, sexual orientation or functionality. All humans have the same human dignity. I'll go in to finish, and then I'll pick up a couple of things later. But once again, I would like to stress that we are very pleased today that we are gathered on many of the civil and political rights. We're sorry we're no longer here about economic and social issues. I take up all the minority proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1756	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the suggestions to which he has referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1759	My post will refer to the Basic Law § 100. One of the toughest national debates we've had since I got to the Stortinget, in 2005, has been about statements about religion. Some drawings that many of us did not understand the power of, aroused enormous emotions. Still, it's hard for many of us to understand how powerful some drawings can create. In Norway, we saw it in demonstrations by 2010. We experienced that our embassy in Syria was burned down. It was a very big debate. So the debate on freedom of expression and religion does not belong to the past, but remains highly relevant. Let me start a little bit with the picture that hangs behind us here. If we look at the door there, Nicolai Wergeland stands, and he who reads is the False. Both of them are champions of the Jewish paragraph. When the picture was painted, the son of Nicolai Wergeland, Henrik Wergeland, managed to fight through the fact that it was removed, before this picture was actually painted – in the 1880s. But our story of religious freedom does not end there. During World War II, Quisling reintroduced the Jewish paragraph illegally in 1942 – and was also condemned for it. I have even thought that this was in a way the end of constitutional discrimination, but the paragraph on Jesuits actually stood in the Constitution until the 1950s. It is not the distant past, so Section 16 that all residents have the right to free religious practice is very important. Religious freedom must, above all, guarantee the right of the minority to religious practice, and our own distant and close history shows the importance of that paragraph. But just as naturally as freedom of faith, I believe the right to express myself critically about religion is. § 100 ensures, as it is today, that right. The reason why the Center Party is not in favour of the change that has been proposed is not that we are opposed to opinion against religion, because it is a natural part of the social debate. But § 100 promises, as it stands today, a specific area to be dealt with against, namely the state administration – those who have the monopoly of power. But then it is also underlined in the paragraph that one can express oneself freely in any other area of society and on ‘any other object’, as it says in the language of the Constitution. We in the Center Party believe it is right to raise the government as one, clear element – those who sit with the monopoly of power – while being able to express themselves critically about all other areas. But we don't want to promote religion separately. That's why what we're voting against that change -- not because we're against religious criticism, because I think it's a very important natural part of a social debate, but we think it's important to raise the most important, freedom of expression for everyone, but point out that you can also be critical of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1774	From the change of lines, especially between myself and the representative Kolberg, you can get the impression that we are almost in a state of crisis. But it's not that bad. I refer to what the representative Kolberg said from the pulpit here a few minutes ago. I agree with the content that he brought forward here, and I also want to take the opportunity to commend the Workers' Party for their support and vote in favour of all the ESC provisions – with the exception of the one, where I hope they will turn around and vote against it, but I will do so afterwards. I would also like to thank the other rapporteurs for the other chapters. As far as human rights are concerned, which are categorised as civil and political rights, the Storting will, in effect, gather by at least two thirds of a majority in order to adopt them. It's both right and necessary to do, and that's what the Storting and the whole country can enjoy. As regards human rights categorised as economic, social and cultural rights, a number of provisions are not adopted. I think that's very bad, and there's really no valid reason to distinguish between these categories of human rights. What's being adopted, we're going to be happy, but unfortunately, we're not going to get all the way to the goal. We in the Left want, in principle, all these economic, social and cultural rights to be enshrined in the Constitution. In particular, there is a provision in the ESC rights to which I would like to draw the attention of Storting. That is the proposal for education. There are two proposals put forward there. One shows that children are obliged to be educated, the other that children have the right to be educated. We in the Left will vote in favour of the provision that children have the right to education. Here we are not going to vote subsidiaryly for duty. I believe that the other parties who are in favour of the obligation laid down in the wording should vote subsidiaryly in favour of the right to education. I'll explain my and the Left's vision. Firstly, I think it would be wrong that the Basic Law should lay down what the child's obligations are. The Constitution, which is thus the pact between the overthrown and the rulers, is not the place to establish the obligations of the citizens, at least not the obligations of children – the obligations of children under law. Furthermore, the obligation to train is incumbent on parents and the public. Should one first establish an obligation in the Basic Law on Education, it should have been with parents as subjects and not children. Furthermore, by stating that children are entitled to education under the Constitution, the obligation will also be implicit. In any case, the Committee's comments show this. The correct thing is that the Stortinget decides that children have the right to education, and that children have a right to it, and therefore this right must also be fulfilled. That's the one. There are also several proposals for new constitutional provisions which are intended not to be adopted. I mention a few here. It concerns the provision on asylum, the provision on whether freedom of expression – in addition to what has already been mentioned, i.e. government and everything else – should also be extended to explicitly religion, and that it should be stated in the Constitution that cohabitants are an indigenous people. I was in the change of line with the Progress Party that it should be explicitly stated in the Constitution that state authorities are to protect children from abuse, abuse and sexual assault. I find it remarkable, and especially with the Minister of Justice in the Chamber, I must be allowed to say that it is remarkable that the Progress Party will vote against the proposal for a new provision in the fourth paragraph of Section 104. It's like: «The authorities of the Member States shall take measures to protect the personal integrity of the child, including the protection against violence, abuse, sexual exploitation and other similar conditions which may harm the child.»; I do not understand it: how could it be that the Progress Party, which is a self-declared law-and-order party, should vote against this? I appeal to Per Sandberg, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Ulf Leirstein and Åse Michaelsen, who have for a number of years issued controversial opinions on how to punish criminals – chemical castration, etc. have been proposed, at least in the media. Where are these major representatives when this provision is now being debated and to be adopted? Are they going to sit in their offices and get up to vote with the rest of the Progress Party that we are not going to decide that the state should take action to protect children from sexual exploitation? I don't understand. It's not on your fingertips. The second thing I mentioned was whether the provision on freedom of expression should be extended to explicitly mention religion. Right now the head of the Center Party was up here. Here, therefore, both the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are voting against and possibly also right. The right may have turned the door on, but we'll have to wait and see when the tuning gets ready. The Progress Party is voting against even though their own Minister of Justice himself agreed to promote the proposal when he was sitting on the Stortinget in the previous period. You are voting against although Anders Anundsen himself promoted the proposal. Why they now choose different, it's not good to know. I suppose the Christian People's Party may vote against protecting its religion from criticism, but with all due respect to report, there is almost nothing left of Christianity to criticize or end. Everything has been debated, so to speak. What society is facing are other religions, and there are entirely other religions on the agenda. They require something quite different in terms of freedom of expression and protection against being debated – that is, the opposite of what freedom of expression applies. It was very good that the current Minister of Justice saw this and suggested that the word ‘religion’ be explicitly included in the Constitution, so that it says that criticism of government and religion is permitted. But now the Progress Party will not vote for it. It's kind of weird -- very weird. In particular, in the light of the caricature struggle and the debate that has taken place in society in recent years, it would be thought that the Constitution would highlight that not only bold statements about government but also whether religion is free and allowed. Thus, all the representatives and the president themselves, with the Constitution in hand, could also criticise religion and say that the Constitution gives this protection. Criticism of religion calls for anger, and even here at home people are afraid of reprisals if they criticize religious dogmas. We can't have it that way. This was what the current Minister of Justice of the Progress Party himself thought in the previous period. Some religions demand that people who make statements that some interpret as blasphemous should be punished. They require a ban. Nor can we have any of that in Norway. While it is clear that religion is also implicitly subject to today's freedom of expression provision, it is not explicitly stated, as is the case with criticism of the government. I want the Stortinget to be involved in doing what the former magnificent and the current Minister of Justice did, he suggested that religion be mentioned in the provision on freedom of expression. I do not know what has happened in the ranks of the Progress Party, but I hope it will be clarified during the debate. What I also want to take advantage of is to say a few sentences about today's Samer paragraph. The proposal that is being put forward today is whether or not to state in the Constitution that Samer is an indigenous person. It is already a provision in the Constitution that says that the Sami People's Group should be able to secure and develop its language and culture. I mean, and there are also other parties who believe that the Stortinget through the Constitution should establish that Samer is a native. This is what the Left believes is an important act that does not cost anything in the budget, but that will have an enormous symbolic value for our indigenous people. We, as big people, should avoid this. It's almost so it would be a little bit petty over it if we couldn't get two thirds majority for it. To the right I would like to say that Stortinget dealt with this question or something about it, if the representative Tetzschner got it with him, on 27 March of this year, i.e. less than two months ago, in the settings for Meldning. St. 48 on the activities of the Sameting. At that time, it was Røre’s representative, Bjørn Lødemel, who was the case rapporteur. It follows from the comments: ‘The majority of the Committee, all the non-participating members of the Progress Party, indicates that the State of Norway is originally established in the territory of two peoples, Samaritans and Nordics, and that both peoples have the same right and the same requirement to develop their culture and language. Samane is an indigenous people who have specific cultural protection requirements under international law.’ So, right with the case rapporteur and three other members from the Right, in March this year, Samer is an indigenous person – less than two months ago. Then we're going to legislate that Samer is a native. Only the supplement is to be included in the provision that already exists today. Then the Right won't follow it up. I'm not getting this to vote. They're part of the Storting today, these four big business representatives. They even had the case rapporteur. It's been less than two months. I would also like to say something about asylum. Peacekeeper Nansen, as I mentioned earlier, is one of our truly great national heroes. Because of his efforts for refugees in 1922, he was honored with what must be said to be one of the world's most prestigious awards, the Nobel Peace Prize. Now this big business can establish that people driven by refugees have the right to apply for asylum. The decision does not imply any amendment to the law that concerns whether or not you are allowed to stay in Norway. But it will be an important symbolic act in Nansen's spirit. For the Progress Party, it would be a feather in the hat if that party were in the process of legislating this. There are two parties that don't want to. At least I have noticed that it is the Right Party and the Advance Party. If the Progress Party had gone in to do this, I'm sure the Right would follow. But at least it would be a big feather in the hat of the Advance Party, which is sometimes wrongly held out as a foreign enemy party, etc. If you went in the breeze and said yes, okay, we've been thinking about, and after the break that's coming soon, we're going in to vote to take this into the Constitution. It's a convention we're bound by. There's a right that exists today, it's regulated in the law. But it's also something special that the Right doesn't want this, that they'll be with the Advance Party on this issue. Fixing rights also in the other ESC provisions – being the right to health care or the freedom of science – has made many comments. These are important and important symbolic decisions that say something about Norway as a nation, and that is what the Constitution should also do – say something about us as a nation. We want the Constitution to state that Norway is against the death penalty. Nowhere does Norway stand for the death penalty. Nevertheless, we will adopt it, because it is a heavy symbolism policy that it is specifically mentioned in the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway – our constitution. We adopt a lot of symbols because they matter. The fact that the Progress Party does not want to establish the rights of citizens to health care is also extremely unmusical in relation to what they have carried out in the social debate. I hope that the Storting and the respective parties, during the break that comes now, will be able to set aside all the party political prestige, with the setting we've made, to lower our shoulders a little bit and try to live at the moment we're in. Now we have the opportunity to seize the moment and uphold the proposals that have been made. In concrete terms, I would like to ask the representative Martin Kolberg regarding Section 116: You are alone about it. Two thirds of the Storting is against. Will the Workers' Party really be the party that wants to be able to set the Constitution aside? Is that really what you want? There is no one else who will, and the Legal Affairs Committee has also warned against it. Turn! Show way for the other games! If you can turn around, the others might also turn around in the other questions. To the Progress Party and the Right: Yes, at least – in addition to what you have already intended to vote in favour – you should vote in favour of the provision in the fourth paragraph of Section 104, which requires the State to ensure that children are not exposed to, for example: sexual abuse and other abuse. The provision on asylum, whether Samer, religion should be included in the freedom of expression paragraph, and health care should be enshrined in the Constitution. This is a minimum of what you should expect, and I really hope that today's big-time representatives will seize this day and pin down some stakes that stand for both our time and our afterlife. That way we get a modern law that stands out over time. I've already mentioned our suggestions before, so I'm not doing it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1829	The President is aware of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1832	First, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for a clarifying article. We've been told in recent years that the Christian People's Party's fight for the right of reservation for doctors is in no way a rematch on the right to self-determined abortion. In that case, it is a truth of modification, for rarely have I experienced such extreme resistance to the right to self-determined abortion contained in the proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party. Although the Christian People's Party says that the way to practice and enforce this must be clarified in ordinary law, the proposal of the Christian People's Party – if adopted – makes no form of self-determined abortion possible. So it's a straightforward clarification to get. From the outside, it seems that the processes of the Control and Constitutional Committee relating to the fundamental law-making of human rights have been – in order to paraphrase the Prime Minister – very special. This applies not only to the issues we are discussing today, but also to the language debate, which ended last week. The Right who went to the elections for new ideas and better solutions last year, the Right who adopted the welfare rhetoric of other parties and said that they would no longer be a cold right party – that party is in these debates, in these constitutional cases and in these absolutely decisive discussions about the values on which our country should build, replaced by a backward, conflict-seeking, polemic, yes, even reactionary Right. It is a Right that rejects the economic and social and cultural rights as completely fundamental human rights, and that, when they face opposition, tries to suggest an undertone of authoritarian swarms of their opponents. It's a Right that can't follow up the Wages Committee's recommendations, and that's putting itself in some weird and self-contradictive situations. It is a Right that warns against fundamental law establishing the right to a satisfactory standard of living and the need for health care, and argues that, as some have said, one should not ‘underlying social democracy’. It's an eye-catching, but straightforward clarification to get, that even the smallest, most fundamental demands of living standards, of access to culture, of respect for the freedom of science and art, of recognition of indigenous peoples and of politicizing the Constitution. I sincerely believed that these were obvious values on which we want to build our country, and on which one could join completely independent of political stand. It is revealing that even the most essential requirements for, for example: health care, rights we have joined in the international community, will be too strong a political diet for the Right. The same can be said about the right to asylum, which we are also dealing with today, as the government parties well know that we are obliged internationally to ensure: it too intends to vote against – as if there is some honour or a firmness of principle associated with highlighting its own lack of generosity. At all: it's a little strange to see the right side today defending its resistance to fundamental law-making of economic and cultural and social human rights with its alleged cleanness. This comes, first of all, from a party which, knowingly, agrees to legislate on some economic and social and cultural rights, so important can not be the principle argument, and which, second, marks its selective relationship with human rights not only with its argument here in the Chamber today, but above all in practice. This is the party that last week took dictates from China on human rights issues. It's sad that we're going to have to reduce so much of this process to a kind of reprisal of the archery of the past about the human rights between East and West, during the cold war, but that's perhaps where the Right Grandfathers' representatives are in this debate. When the representative Tetzschner in his reply with the representative Andersen suggests support for the despotic regimes in the East as a sort of motivation for SV's stand in this debate, he may be enthusiastic and amuse some local teams in the Young Right and the most extreme liberals in the think tank Civita, but he makes a substantive debate in this room about the inclusion of human rights in the Basic Law, rights that almost a whole world – including Norway – has included – as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1847	Former speakers from the Workers' Party have explained in detail the whole case complex very well on our behalf, so I want to link a reflection to another dimension of this matter, namely what Norway, with what we are about to do, looks like on the outside on this historic day. It struck me, and the last two days I've been visiting Palestine, which is a state that inspires to be recognized by the world, and where there are still some difficult steps towards it, that what they look for then, are modern examples of how the basic documents can be designed, so that there is confidence in what a modern state stands for – what obligations they have, what limitations it is for the power of the state, etc. They then look for natural reasons towards the Nordic countries, towards Europe. They look towards countries like Norway. There are long lines in the international community in the field of rights fixing — the political and civil rights and gradually, beyond the 20th century, including economic and social rights. I agree with what is said by some speakers, that it was a year, and there are times when dictatorships point to economic and social rights as an argument against imposing political and civil rights. We've stood up to those countries. We have taken the curtains aside and said that this is a false argument against giving people fundamental human rights – civil and political. But because we've stood up to it, it's an argument that bears bad for those who are dictatorships. You don't belong to it today. I agree with our main speaker, the representative Christensen, who says very clearly – and several speakers have repeated it – that there is no valid reason to separate them. They make up a whole. Then I believe that when we have started a job, under the direction of Inge Wohnung, to use the 200th anniversary, which in itself is an occasion – if it had come two years before or two years later, it would also be an opportunity – to ensure that our constitution is in line with our time, I regret that we do not have the ability to have a modern constitution that reflects both civil and political rights and economic and social rights, precisely because we could show the rest of the world that that balance is possible. One is not an excuse for the other. Here's the way this can be practiced. I was among those who were very excited about the work the Wage Committee was supposed to do, because I have also been struck by a respect for the Constitution that says that it is not just to go ahead as a kind of big audit facility. I am also of those who believe that we should fence up on Stortinget Square, the elected politicians who are responsible for making decisions that are appropriate in time. At the same time, however, I believe that the proposals we have made now – and some of them are therefore voted down – should not be an obstacle to the understanding of the role of the Greatness, the people elected, in our time. But it would be an opportunity to say that we have a constitution that is both historical and topical – so now we get a little bit more halfway, but it's historical, we have a lot of respect for it, we can even be happy with it, and it gets a lot of topicality. I think the linguistic form got better than it could be, but it's far from as modern as it should be. We're saying away that possibility, and I think that's sad. Finally, this, which is claimed to be fundamental to social democracy if we had introduced these rights, could we social democrats seem to be a nice statement to sunbathe in. But I think it's a sad statement in one day as a citizen for something else. We haven't glued labels on the proposals of the other parties, but we're invited to do so when that argument is used. These are parties that use most occasions — including this room — to say to social democrats that you have no exclusive right to talk about the social and economic rights and welfare state developed by Norway; it is a joint ownership. We can discuss that. But when we were to introduce it in a way that is recognizable, they put their feet down. Finally, I remember that in the last period I was a foreign minister of those who missed what we had in the period before that again, namely that Inge Wohnning entered the hall at the end of the foreign debate. Then he would like to put an atmosphere by focusing on the completely fundamental questions. I believe – and of course you have to be respectful and careful to say – that what we are adopting today follows the thorough work he and his colleagues carried out, but that is not quite clear. I also think he would think that there's no valid reason to divorce, but we're doing that today. It does something that's good, not quite as good as it could be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1866	Previous speakers, the representative Gahr Støre, undertook to tell us what Norway looks like from the outside. In the new capacity he will take over from 14 June, I think it might be an advantage if he also started to take an interest in what Norway looks like from the inside. What we are working on today is the Norwegian Constitution on the basis of which we have incorporated all the relevant human rights provisions: the Universal Declaration, the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Children's Convention and the Women's Discrimination Convention. The debate has gone as if this were a unique opportunity to change the legal situation in Norway, even more well started today by stating that what we are doing at best today is codifying unwritten constitutional law, and at some points some main provisions are being introduced. It is uncontroversial in terms of civil and political rights; it helps complete the rights protection that many have rightly claimed to have been somewhat flawed in the previous version of the Constitution. Then we've had a discussion about the economic, social and cultural rights. There's a difference between these rights, even though someone in this room has tried to break down the difference between them. The difference is simply that the first require freedom for the citizens through restraint from the state power. That is what has given us first the rule of law, later democracy, and after the development of democracy, we also got the welfare state – thanks to the real freedoms. But then it's an instinct that now, for security reasons, you have to lock up future resource competition in society through basic law. That's a completely different question. There are some who have said that the provisions of the Human Rights Act or of specific legislation do not matter. Actually, we're picking something away by adding provisions to the Constitution. Since the representative Karin Andersen was in and quoted Carsten Smith, I thought I'd draw attention to Carsten Smith's surviving script during the hearing. He says, ‘In entering the Constitution, human rights not only interfere with the relationship between citizen and state, but also intervene – as this one makes clear – in the distribution of power between our state bodies. Higher status rights increase the jurisdiction because the courts are to interpret and apply the higher rules that prevail in front of all others.» Then he has a critical objection when the Wage Committee says we're just making visible, we're just lifting the rules. Carsten Smith then says, with reference to the sample, that the proposal: ‘only promises the central rights already conferred by the Human Rights Act into the Constitution. But fundamental law is now a clear shift in power, if not in the quantity of rights, so because the law increases by virtue of the quality of rights". And he goes on to say, ‘The further assessment then applies to the reasons for such increased power in the courts. The Court of Justice here finds its reasons as independent counter-power.’ What is this counterpower counterpower to? It's this body, it's the Storting. That is what is now, as it were, the highest level of social policy progress. It is to raise a natural political debate that we have every harvest, when we allocate the resources of society to the Community solutions through the state budget, or operate with ordinary, ordinary legislation. It's lifting this out of the political sphere and into the jurisdictional sphere. That's when I think it gets a little bit hollow when I hear that this is the law of the people. It's the law of the people that's supposed to build a fence against the people's representatives. Now what is the logic of that? Let me go back to Carsten Smith, who later also says: "But if the courts are the guards, who are the guards? The courts may extend the protection of the rights too far, in a single case or perhaps in several cases. Yes, this is the price the political majority must pay if it has first accepted entry into the Constitution.’ Then I hear that it is going to be to misrepresent the legal situation when this comes from the country's former Supreme Justice. I believe this is a legal debate that is entirely legal to conduct, without one being told that one has deviated from the position of the Wage Committee. For it is not the right that deviates most from the wage selection settings. That's what the Workers' Party is doing, like, – they may also be able to explain – initially with the Right and the Wage Committee that the right of asylum should not be enshrined in the basic law. They have now turned that around in the committee. It is also so flawedly problematic how to codify the right to review, i.e. § 114, that it has to endure on this occasion. The same applies to the Workers' Party's wish for the general rule of exception, § 115. One has also deviated from the position by standing with the religious paragraph, in Section 16, that one had. And the demography, which was like a suggestion, is rightfully part of the Workers' Party, but it seems that a majority in this room is taking a distance from it, fortunately. In addition, Section 96 third paragraph is exposed. So it's clear that the Storting must be allowed to deal freely with this, because otherwise the Storting would have delegated away the real constitutional competence. In this context, I would like to conclude by explaining that the reason we do not have all sorts of abuses against children's rights is that we have an excellent criminal code. The Constitution does not contain sanctions, and that is why it falls within the scope of the Penal Code, and otherwise we agree on the fundamental law of children’s rights. As far as the right to life is concerned, we have been on ‘inhabitants’ for a long time, with reference to the fact that this has to do with universal human rights, but I still wonder that the Christian People's Party is promoting a constitutional bill that seeks to define life from conception to natural death. There are two very difficult discussions in one, on which it is not possible to get an acceptance through a basic law – this must be taken through the ordinary legislative work. If you had split that proposal in two, you would see that there would be many followers of the ban on active death aid, and that could have been a constitutional purpose to legislate, because it would have been a protection against a future effusion. So while in the first part, it would be recommended that the Stortinge adopts a constitutional law that cannot be lived up to, and that is to legalize the deviation from it by means of an ordinary law. That's not how the step height works. Since I see that Hans Olav Syversen is signed afterwards: I would like to have an explanation of this remarkableness. I also want to add that my personal view is that I would wish in many and many ways that we could work more towards this, but then we have to take this step by step; then we have to take it through the political development of society and not look at the Constitution as a driving force neither for abortion laws nor for other areas where one wants to change the legal status.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1910	The President will draw attention to the fact that the representative Hans Olav Syversen will not be given the floor until 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The decision was taken at the beginning of Stortinget today that this meeting would be cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 15 and then we'll be back at 3:00 p.m. 16 – this in order for the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to carry out a review of the wetting basis and the wetting system. - The meeting has thus been cancelled. I'll put it back at 0:00. Six o'clock and first talk. 16 is the representative of Hans Olav Syversen. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 15.03.20. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. Sixteen twenty-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1924	We resume the debates before the break, and the first speaker is the representative of Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1928	This is a debate where you can assess whether you should enjoy what is actually adopted, or whether you should use time and effort to get angry at what you would like to see adopted or what you would not like to see adopted, and focus on it. For me, it is primarily a great pleasure to join and vouch for more human rights in our constitution – also by giving them a separate, comprehensive chapter. It will remove the fragmentary and, in part, random expression that has shaped the protection of human rights in the Constitution of this day. I think one should assume that adopting an entire human rights chapter also has a strong symbolic function. Thus, we also say that human rights are an important part of the state administration and the fundamental values upon which we as a nation are based. It is no exaggeration to say that there has been a great deal of time for the human rights we are adopting today, through several changes in Norwegian legislation in the last 10–15 years – first through the Human Rights Act, and then with the reduction of the Wage Committee, which we are now concluding. The international recognition of human rights is, in most cases, one of the greatest advances in civilisation. When this also comes into our constitution, it has happened after a rather cautious beginning. The inclusion of international human rights laws in the Constitution will now indicate that Norway is not only a state of law but also a State of human rights. It will actually put the stamp of this century on the Constitution – it will have rules that will bring it into more direct contact with the lives of each citizen, and so it will become a living document. Then you can ask yourself how large the number of human rights to be included in the Constitution should be. It has given us our view of it, so I'm going to let it lie, but I want to promise it to me most important, namely that rights in the Constitution will provide greater security when there might have to be other times in this country. Only here are individuals and minorities guaranteed against varying political waves, as far as the rule of law can protect this. The National Government is instigated in the Constitution, which gives impetus to the will of the majority. In fact, human rights shall limit what the majority can decide. It's a protection, not for the majority, but for the minority. History has shown that a majority – including in our country – may lack tolerance and the will to share the social dimension of the minority, which must exist in a democracy. Human rights claim public authorities, and it is important that this should be re-checked by independent courts. I am very pleased with what we in sum adopt here today. So until the representative Tetzschner took up our proposal for a new Constitutional Paragraph and the right to life. I think it's an interesting input that the representative Tetzschner makes, namely to separate this – from conception to natural death – to see if it's possible on a later occasion to get the basis for a sufficient majority. So I would also say, this hall has also given legal protection to the unborn, but what we've disagreed about is when this legal protection is going to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1949	The size should today determine the fate of a large number of constitutional proposals, at least how we deal with the issues during this majority period. Most of today’s settings are based on Documents 16 for 2011–2012, referred to as the Human Rights Committee. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee presented constitutional proposals with different arguments and options in order to allow this increase to make its own assessments of the various constitutional proposals. Furthermore, the size has made it possible for us today to complete these constitutional proposals in good time before our national day, of which we are extra proud this year, as we are celebrating the anniversary of the Constitution. Mr. Stortingsretten Per Olaf Lundtigen has mentioned all our proposals, including our secondary votes, on behalf of the Central Party earlier in this debate. I will say a few words about the central party's position regarding the constitutional proposals §§ 103 and 104, in addition to the proposal for a new § 114 and the right to apply for asylum. The centre party supports the proposal for a new section 103, which starts with: «Family is a basic entity in society». 1 from the Inst minority. 183 S. The family forms a secure framework in the growth of children. We also want the family to have a strong position in Norwegian society in the future. I would like to stress that the Central Party has supported this option all the way through the Committee's treatment, regardless of what has been said and written about horse trafficking between different parties. We stand on this option and will vote for it later today. Furthermore, the Centerpartiet stands in the proposal for a new § 104 third paragraph – on children – behind proposal No. 7 from the minority. The reason for our position here is that we believe it is important to stress in the Constitution that ‘the child is given the necessary economic, social and health protection, preferably in his own family’. This has been our position throughout the treatment. The centre party will always work to ensure that children are as safe and well-growthed as possible. A child has a natural connection with his or her own family, and we believe that this should also be reflected in the Constitution. Various alternative constitutional proposals have been put forward on asylum. The centre party is against everyone. We argue in the innermost. 184 S, together with the members of the Right and the Advance Party, so that the Grand Duchy does not adopt provisions on asylum in the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway. The Human Rights Committee advised that the Stortinget attached the right to asylum and also the right to apply for asylum. The Central Party supports the sample, which considered it difficult to regulate the right to asylum in the Constitution, and points out that regulation of the right to asylum at the level of the Constitution could make the right of asylum less flexible for the actual changes that are taking place in this area. Although the principle of power-allocation requires the sharing of power between the legislator, the performer and the judge, there will always be differing views and assessments of how this distribution should be. The distribution has been changing, and it's the Storing that decides for itself whether we want to give up power. I will end by saying that the Central Party as a People's Party is strongly opposed to the eroding of the Government of Storting. Either Norwegian elected representatives lose influence in international and supranational courts or in the authority of supranational organisations, this is a weakening of the regime that we argue against. This has been our position when we have considered the proposed amendments to our constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e1968	The Constitution is an important document, we have said that many times today, but it is also an important document because we have always managed to change it with the challenges facing Norwegian society. The Norwegian Constitution is in a way such as the association statutes of an organisation. It's not there for everyday use, it's there to look up when you're not sure what the rules are, and it's there too to be able to deal with the bad days. We do not use the Constitution on a daily basis in the organisation of our rule of law, but the times when the rule of law is in crisis, and the times when the policy is in crisis, the Constitution should be there, and then it should be a good backbone to lean against in the way we organize our society. The Community is exposed to both good and bad days, and the Constitution is there for the bad days – the days we are going to keep the principles we have in good days, equally high. After July 22nd, we have experienced a period of trial and a court settlement that, when it was over, was something we were all very proud of, sail if there were many debates along the way about how it was to be done, if we had a sufficient law, and if we might have had other laws when you were exposed to such extremes. It is clear that the principles that were enshrined in our rule of law, in our democracy, in our principles of driving the rule of law after, are what we are proud of in retrospect. It's strange that there was also a cleansing process that was important for a nation to go through, because that's how the laws you make when you're in the middle of a conflict, often aren't as good as the ones you make out of principles, and that when you consider it possible for a conflict to happen. Therefore, the Constitution is our joint organisation's statutes for good and bad days. The reason why the Constitution is still important in Norway is that it has always been changed, that it has always been in front, that it has always been on its way. And if a constitutional protection of children’s rights is adopted today, Norway will be one of the world’s leading countries — perhaps the most important — in this area. It suits us. Norway was the first country to adopt inheritances for children — the Castberg Children’s Laws — and it is the laws that we introduced just after the turn of the century, but such as this. was introduced in Sweden in the 1970s and 1980s. We've been in front of a lot about children's rights in Norway, and it's only in their place that we're actually doing it today as well. The great wars on our continent have later created some fundamental debates on the principles on which we build our society. After World War I, there was talk of inter-national relations in the debate on the First League of Nations. But what happened after World War II, with the great weapons of mass destruction and the great mass killing camps that we saw in that war, was that human dignity was lifted up and would form a framework for rules on how we treat the individual – the individual's own values. The work that Eleanor Roosevelt did in the United Nations, as head of the committee that made what was our human rights charter, is quite unique, and it was a clear product of a war in which we saw that human dignity was drawn. The idea of having some universal values on which we build our community is that the majority can also be wrong. Winston Churchill said that the point of democracy is not that the majority has power, but that the minority has something to say. It is the very essence of implementing human rights in the Constitution. Because it's about every person having any inherent rights that not a majority in this hall can immediately take away from him. That means you have some inherent rights as an individual and a citizen of this society, which a majority in this room can't take away. There has been a great change from the previous period, and the Minister of Justice, who does not say anything in such debates, must probably think a little bit about it, because in the last period I experienced a Right who was on the team, in front, on the breadth of human rights, and said that one could not take out parts of them, while I experienced a Martin Kolberg who was very concerned that the right hysteria was about to undermine our society. I believe that it is a fundamental error to say that the right debate after the Power investigation has something to do with human rights. Because the challenges of the big rights hysteria, which we sometimes have in this room, are that we grant rights that only the richest with the most resources and our own lawyer can cash in. But human rights are something much more fundamental. Often, human rights are what the most disadvantaged in society can use to cash in their rights. I'll come back to examples of that. It's possible that it's awfully outrageous of me – just before the vote – to mention some examples of what I think a constitution of human rights can lead to. To the Central Party, I have to say that I have no need to make the right of asylum flexible. I need to say that the right to apply for asylum is a fundamental human right that every human being has, and I believe that it is such a fundamental right that we cannot, nor a majority in this room, take away from anyone overnight. There's no need for flexibility there. I understand the position of the Progress Party. The Progress Party is opposed to some of these conventions and is constantly having debates on it, but I do not understand that the Centre Party – with Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and the old people who have always been on the barricades with the Left – can say that there is a need for flexibility in the area of asylum. No, we need an additional constitutional protection attached to an important right that is under pressure, also in our society, and that is what we do with the Constitution. We provide an extra constitutional protection for rights that we actually believe should be protected. It means saying health care, because it's only been two weeks since we had a debate about some citizens in this country who received health care from Norwegian doctors, and whether or not they should be reported. Had we had a passport in the Norwegian Constitution that you had the right to health care, that debate would have been irrelevant, because then you could not have convicted a doctor to provide a citizen in this country with health care. So you could call it a "disney rule." For me it's quite as handy. So to the right to go to school, I'm not sure everyone in Norwegian society is going to school. I mean, we can't be sure of that. The fundamental part of having equal start in life is actually giving a real right that I don't believe today that everyone has. But it's not those with great lawyers and lots of opportunities to push through their rights in a rights hysteria that does. No, it's the weakest ones, the very lowest ones on the rank ladder, who can use the Constitution in such a context. So for freedom of expression: there are two countries that have tried a beggar ban, where the Supreme Court has lifted the beggar ban because it is actually not allowed to regulate people's opinions regarding the right to ask: Can I get money? There are no statements that are banned if you have absolute freedom of expression in the Constitution. These are not customs rules, but real debates in Norwegian society today. It's these rights that actually become more real, most often for all, the weakest in our society. So to the environment, we've never used the environmental paragraph. But if you travel around the world, if you look at all the major environmental measures that have been done in many countries, it is often the Constitution that has been used to get them to. If you're wondering why the tuk-tuks in India are going on gas and not on petrol, it's the Indian Supreme Court and people's right to breathe in the air, also in New Delhi, which is the basis for that change. It is not courageous parliamentarians, but parliamentarians who sometimes adopt principles that they agree with, but which they do not have guts to implement. We also have to remember that in that tense – what I tried to say when I had a reply to Tetzschner, but which he did not understand – and throughout the spectrum that Eleanor Roosevelt created for us, there are ESC rights on the one hand and citizens' rights on the other. There has always been a debate on which is the most important. I, as liberals, can never say that one right is above another. It's the same discussion I had with former representative Langeland when he nominated Castro for the Peace Prize because Castro had a good health system and a good fight against poverty. We can also discuss it, but that means that two rights are more important than the other rights. It is the same as saying in right-wing countries – I don't want to say extremes, but on the conservative side – that there are clear civil rights here, and it's not that important if you don't have the other rights. For me as a liberal, for me who comes from a center party, it's obvious that you can't rank the different human rights. Nor can you say that you are for some ideals, but not when it comes to a gray day. Then I want a parliament to have the opportunity to break those ideals. This is our safety valve. These are the statutes of the bad days. The bad days are going to come in this room, and then we have a safety valve called the Basic Law, which actually lays the groundwork for populist flows not to break the basic principles of a society being built on. So it's finally important to say that it's very good that is adopted today, sail if I wish we'd gone further in many areas. It has been flirted by the Left at least five grand, when we have proposed that the right to privacy should be enshrined in the Constitution. We've been all alone in most of the voting. We have put forward proposals on this occasion, again and again, at every turn. I'm not going to repeat the characteristics. I'm just very happy that there is now a broad consensus on the importance of privacy. Perhaps the events in recent years have also marked the debate in the other parties. Last, but not least, I have to underline once again the issue of children's rights. With this, Norway – a sea if I wish we had gone further – takes a very important step in the international arena to be at the forefront of children’s rights. You should know, President, that the Left loses today, we expect us to win in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2000	Today we are debating our constitution. We're going to vote on how we want it to be in the future, in a new time, and make a new story. This year we've been able to see 200 years back, but the most important thing for us is actually to have a constitution that not only carries backwards, but also carries forward. I can say it in another way: our constitution is the foundation or basement of the house of Norway, and today we are strengthening the cellar so that the house of Norway will stand better in the future. We put in human rights, freedom of expression, the right to family and the right to life, to mention something. The right to life, the fact that man has a self-esteem, regardless of inheritance, regardless of gender, regardless of mental or physical characteristics, age or skin color – that all humans have a value by virtue of being human – this is updated in the debate we have in our society today, and not just as it once was. I can give an example of what the debate is today about the right to life. It's about little Ole and his family. Ole has in a way given a face to the right to life, I think. His mother learned that Ole was not compatible with life. Ole shows us something else. «Every human being has the right to life» is what becomes the majority rule today. Ole joins in raising this question for us: is there such a society we want to build in the future, where we have space? So by being a human being, we have a self-esteem, even when we can't deliver as much as everyone else, whether it's from the beginning of life, we get sick in the middle of life, or we can't deliver as much as before because we're old and we're going to go to a natural death. It is also important for us as a nation, I think, and for the Christian People's Party, to have political governance and to set a direction for how we will manage all the new things that will come from technology, which can help expose the legacy and thus degrade the individual human being that is not yet born. Its human dignity is being degraded before it is born. Then we might have an attitude toward them when they're born. Just as the Christian People's Party is concerned with the right to life from the beginning to a natural death, so the human dignity is equal to the end of life. We can look at that proposal Tetzschner mentions, to share what has been our primary proposal and to base this with a natural death as well. For in essence, it is that man's value must be at the bottom of all our policies, so that man's value is equal to the beginning of life to a natural death, regardless of our physical and mental health or other capacity, because it is the value of being a human being who is the right to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2013	The Labour Party will support a new section 106 on the right to asylum. Establishing the right to asylum will not change today's legal status, but it will help to give this right a stronger protection. In the hearing, several pointed out that the right to asylum was under political pressure. Amnesty International pointed out that the right to seek asylum is one of the human rights challenges today. As a result, this right will be better protected against changing political flows if it is enshrined in the Constitution. That is why we in the Labour Party believe that this paragraph is so important. There are not multiples for this in the configuration, but we could hope that some from the Right and the Centre would join in supporting the proposal for a multiple here. We must also support Section 103 on family. There are two proposals there. The difference is whether the sentence that the family is a basic unit of society should be included or not. Otherwise, there's actually agreement about this one between all of you without the Right. For us in the Labour Party, this paragraph is so important that we have chosen to vote in a subsidiary way for the Christian People's Party's proposal, where this sentence is included. But it's unlikely that it's important to clarify the definition of family, as it also appears in the setting. Today's family life poses some challenges, one of which was previously unknown. Before we thought about the core family or the large family, while today family life is marked by much greater shortages. The many different family forms make it hard to say what is a family. For this reason, it is unlikely that the family involved covers many different types of life – couples with and without children, cohabitants with and without children, gay couples with and without children, single parents living with children, cohabiting parents, parents with foster children and single-minded single-parents etc. A large community cannot take the option of living a mature human being. We are also aware that the family is important for children’s growth and for their belongings. It is also important that it is not necessarily the primary family that is the best place for the children. Then there is Section 93 about the right to life. That's the first sentence of the paragraph that creates discussion. We're in favour of "every human being has the right to life." The majority do this too. Right handed in for the 'independent' right to life. The Christian People's Party even has a ‘from conception to natural death’. It is not entirely unproblematic to establish a fundamental right to life. There is broad agreement that life is a fundamental right, but there is political, professional and philosophical disunity about when the right to life occurs and what the right to life implies. For us in the Labour Party it has been unlikely to be important to ensure that the discussion of abortion is led by the Storting, and that the Constitution is not taken into account for anyone's eyesight. It is important to note that the Human Rights Committee clarifies that this paragraph will not affect the right to self-determined abortion, and there are a number of issues in the Committee. Hence, the Workers' Party is in favour of: ‘Every human being has the right to life.’ Right has entered to have with the word ‘independent’ – ‘independent right to life’. The pay-selection said it wouldn't affect the issue of abortion, but when the case was presented, members of the Janne Haaland Matlary selection expressed both verbally and in writing that the word "independent" could affect the question of right to free abortion. Therefore, the Workers' Party cannot be in the word "instructive", as it may create uncertainty about the abortion question. That we cannot be on the proposals of the Christian People's Party, that is understandable to everyone. Some have also asked if we can't drop the whole paragraph, but until that I have to say that as long as there is a proposal for the right to life and the prohibition of torture and the death penalty, yes, then it's hard to vote against it. Everyone's in favour of the right to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2037	The Human Rights Committee has proposed a new section 109 of the Constitution on the right to education. No paragraph in Grundlova regulates the education issue today. The right to education is enshrined in a number of conventions. Democracy continued participation by all. The centre party will be clear that if we are to achieve the Constitutional objective of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, education will be central. Education is a starting point for other basic legal rights, such as the right to work. That is why it is right for the Storting today to legislate on the right to education. The counterarguments do not stand 200 years after the mariners make our first constitution. The base law will not change the legal state, but will act as a legal constraint for the legislator. This will prevent the State from failing in future its responsibility to provide its citizens with education regardless of geography, economy or other circumstances. The Central Party supports the recommendation of the Human Rights Committee to the legal text, which first establishes that everyone has the right to education, then that children are obliged to receive basic training. Training shall develop the capacities of each child and take care of its needs and promote respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Governments shall ensure access to continuing training and equal access to higher education on the basis of qualifications. It's a big day when the Storting today basics that everyone has the right to education, and it's a pleasure to read out proposals for lawmaking in new Norse. The central part of the selection is in a note where an underscores that the phrase must be understood in such a way that there is no possibility of setting the conditions for the school money in the public base ball. We also underline in the setting that closer to the organisation and design of education, its content, the creation of a trade union and the needs of society must be fully supported by political understanding and priorities for any growth. Aaron Wildavsky, a well-known American scientist and statesman, is familiar with the so-called 10-90 rule. He states that health services can only repair 10 pst. of people’s health problems. The remaining 90 pst. has its roots in society and communities. Health is politics. Politics is about distributing. When the Storting allocates living conditions such as income, work, education, food and the environment, we also allocate framework conditions for health. Politics is to shape and manage a human vision and a social climate that has direct consequences for the human potential to preserve health. Ensuring prevention and health promotion is a state responsibility. Founder of social medicine, Rudolf Virchow, said it this way 150 years ago: "Politics is nothing but medicine in general." Of all the important issues that one considers to provide constitutional protection, the basic legislation of acceptable standard of living and health must be the most important. The central party believes that the Stortinget in new § 111 will decide that the government should respect and guarantee the right to a satisfactory standard of living. Similarly, government agencies shall promote public health and guarantee the right to the necessary health care. I'm surprised that it's only the Workers' Party and SV in addition to the Center Party that primarily supports the Constitutional Formulaion to this effect, that government powers are to promote public health. Both the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Green Party have omitted this wording in their option in the vote, and I want to ask them why. In my view, there is evidence of poor understanding of what affects health in a population, and lack of respect for the fact that the state has a fundamental responsibility for creating a society that is health-promoting. The fact that this should not be laid down in the Constitution – only that citizens should be entitled to health care, i.e. treatment – is not a constitutional renewal in 2014. Finally, I would like to congratulate the representative Tetzschner on his work against his own government and own a government platform on the symbolic policy that is currently being pursued in the field of health and care. The Government Platform states that statutory rights to welfare services, combined with freedom of establishment and a single price, should contribute to better services. In comments, both the Right Party and the Progress Party come with strong criticism of the law-based health policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2057	This is the second day we discuss the Constitution over a week. The last Tuesday felt perhaps the enthusiasm of this hall even more, then it was such that all the party was brilliantly satisfied with the result that came. Today, there is a more common debate that characterizes the hall. I don't want to comment at least on two things. One is the part that relates to family, and the other is the one that owes people rights. It is not only in this room that you have debated the Constitution. Today we can read in the Leadership Address Paper that the family should not be protected in the Constitution. The Christian People's Party believes the family – and then in a broad sense – should have a legal place in our central constitutional human rights rights, because the family's role as protection of children's education and growth in their well-being is both practical and fundamentally important. In the wake of the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, the presidency set up a selection to deal with and propose a limited revision of the Constitution with the aim of strengthening the position of human rights in national law. It's done by giving central human rights the legislating. It is an important job that we are considering today. In today's constitution, only some of the central human rights are included. Those who read the Constitution can therefore get a distorted and deficient picture of what values the Norwegian society is building on. In order for the Constitution to be a living document, all central human rights rights must be guaranteed in the Constitution. It has our background for the Christian People's Party's involvement in the important constitutional work. When the Christian People's Party took the initiative to solve language issues by contributing to two-thirds of the pluralities for language modernisation, it became interconnected with important formulations in key paragraphs on human rights. It has been important for the Christian People's Party, and I want to use this opportunity to give special thanks to the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party for the unity we got in place, and a special thank you to Martin Kolberg for his work to ensure this. As a result, there was a consensus on important principleal formulations that would allow the link between human rights in the Constitution and international human rights in a more clear and holistic way. First, it ensures that one avoids undermining the meaning of human rights that are not specifically mentioned in the Constitution. Another important factor is to avoid a different interpretation of the fundamental human rights in relation to the Treaty rights. By referring to binding treaties, national legislation is closely linked to legislation based on international conventions. I believe that the interpretation of human rights in Grundlova should also contain wording on the role of the family in society. The role of the family in protecting children's well-being and growth is, in principle, important. That is exactly why the family is included in the International Conventions on Human Rights. Today’s family outreach poses a number of challenges that a formerly unknown one was facing. While one is predestined at the core family or the large family, family life today is marked by a greater number of shortages. This is reflected in the proposal, which today is also opposed by Addressavisa. In the proposal, the family is defined broadly – as couples with and without children, co-workers with and without children, gay couples with and without children, single parents living with children, co-parents, parents with foster children, single-parents, etc. A more inclusive family definition should be searched for a long time. In those words, I would say that in the Christian People's Party, we are very happy that we have just got the important work done around human rights. We feel that the solution that was clearly debated last week is producing good results today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2074	We never get a perfect foundation -- lucky for you. Constitutions shall always be developed. She's the closest thing we have that's almost written in stone, but at the same time it's always going to be in critical development. The goal is to promote and protect good in good and, not least, bad days. The Constitution itself is the social contract that binds Norway together. It's our common moral logic. While others view human rights as part of our common morality, the right-hand side makes a difference to what they call civil and social rights. When I hear Tetzschner, I get the impression that there is still a blow between the right-hand side and the left-hand side about which permissions are most important. Do we see a new Right Growth, digging up from the past, that sees human rights divided into the civil rights on one side and the social democratic values on the other? At the same time, we see other people this in context. Freedom and justice are two sides of the same coin: without social security no political freedom. In other areas, the right side shows a mysterious logic in its attempts to find out what is protective and what is not fully protective. On the one hand, education shall be a right, while free research shall not be. Nor should the art be protected – nor should the right to asylum be protected. The good should be a moan in the mountains, the bad should be a write in the snow. The human rights that were created after the horrors of the Second World War can be called the foundation of the world society. The principle of popular sovereignty then took its place in two of the most central conventions on human rights: the Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Both are introduced with the same article: ‘All peoples have the right to self-determination. By virtue of this right, they freely determine their political position and freely promote their own economic, social and cultural development.» In 2007, the UN General Assembly adopted an identical wording on indigenous peoples at the time of the adoption of the Declaration on the Courts of the indigenous peoples. Article 3 reads as follows: ‘Urbans have the right to self-determination. By virtue of this right, they freely determine their political position and freely promote their own economic, social and cultural development.» Despite the fact that the principle of co-operative self-determination is a topic today, there is little room for discussion in Norwegian public opinion. Some people prefer to meet the theme with conspiracy theories, and so on. Saman's right of self-determination is no threat to this state, unless the state has elevated the understanding of the past in the mountains. As state power and government found new forms of improvement at the beginning of the 800s, there is still room for improvement in our time. In contrast to 1814, democracy today needs to recognise the existence of and the space of poverty and indigenous peoples. Majority democracy can and should be replaced by a lack of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2095	In today's debate, there has been a continuous red thread, that is, if human rights can be ranked – and if so, how to rank them. Several different divisions have continued, but in particular the divisions that deal with the existence of some ‘freedoms from’ and some ‘freedoms from’ have been most represented, or – as the representative Tetzschner said – freedom by being detained. He said that there is also a distinct difference between these, because the latter – i.e. the ‘freedoms of’ – has meaning for the future resource competition in society. I understand the analytical division, but I'm not in agreement with the political consequences. That's for two reasons. The first reason is that it should be quite poor in a country if one is not to be able to fulfil the minimum rights referred to here, economic, social and cultural rights, such as the right to a satisfactory standard of living or the right to necessary health care. What else is going to be the responsibility of the state, if it's not to guarantee its citizens these completely basic minimum ratios? If there is still a need for it – but I do not think so – for the judgements of the courts as to what political space exists when it comes to economic, social and cultural rights, I would like to make it clear that the political space for action is significant, and that, of course, it will also be possible in the future if the people choose a conservative government, that a person practices the right to work and the right to education in a politically conservative way. The same would be true of the decisions that Right chose to oppose. The second reason why I do not agree with the political consequences that are being outlined is that the civil and political rights, as the representative Tetzschner mentioned as not requiring resources for the future, are not free of charge either. But because we have a fairly well-developed and modern society, we forget that the right to a fair trial and freedom from torture – building and keeping by a well-functioning police, a prison system and a court system that lasts these basic dishes – costs a lot of money. We give priority to civil and political rights, even if it costs a lot of money. We lift them into the Constitution anyway, because we think they're important enough to do that. At the end of the day, this is what it is all about: Are economic, social and cultural dishes important enough? Right doesn't mean that. In any case, the representative Tetzschner has said in the debate that economic, social and cultural rights are at the very periphery of what the Constitution is going to do. He has argued that they do not belong to the height of the steps laid down by the Constitution, but that they rather belong in ordinary law. It is not in line with modern human rights considerations. I'd like to spend some time justifying it. Both types are aimed at everyone in society, but only economic, social and cultural rights make human rights accessible, possible and real to everyone. For example, a first freedom of expression — a civil and political right — and if one also has education, an economic, social and cultural right. It's a thought that's evolved over time. The language of human rights can be traced back to the period of notice, and individual rights can be traced back even longer in time. Civil and political rights can in particular be traced back to the democratic revolutions in Europe and the United States at the end of the 1700s. The awareness of economic, social and cultural rights first emerged in the late 1900s, as work on social injustice and on welfare and labour rights strengthened. This does not mean, however, that economic, social and cultural rights were first invented long after the civil and political rights – on the contrary. Already in constitutions from the 1800s in different European countries, there are traces of economic, social and cultural rights. Some dishes can be argued again for having elements of both categories. There is an example already in § 101 of the 1814 Constitution on the right to property. Many people regard that right as an inconclusive civil right, and then as the right to own and have the right to possess the product of what one has created through his own work. But one sees that the destination also has an economic dimension, for example. there are cases in the EMD where countries have been fielded in order not to actively secure the right to property. For example, in one of the cases, Öneryldiz versus Turkey in 2002, it deals with: about the home of a slumbuar, where the world was also involved in waste management. There the state of Turkey was convicted of not having done enough to avoid the destruction of that world. If so, the Court of Justice shall, inter alia: emphasis on the balance between the interests of society and the interests of the individual, and the Court also emphasises the legitimate expectations of its authorities. For the sake of order, when I refer to the EMD, it's just to show that the right to property can also be seen legally and actually as more than just a freedom from right, and that in some context, too, it's a freedom from right. In other words, the division used by the representative Tetzschner, although theoretically understandable, is not sufficiently precise to defend the stubborn insistence that civil and political justice is something quite different from economic and social, and must therefore be treated substantially differently. The 1993 Vienna Declaration states emphatically: «All human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent and interrelated. The international community must treat human rights globally in a fair and equal manner, on the same footer, and with the same expatriation.» So it says that all the human rights have to be handled on the same foot and at the same pressure. This clarification came in 1993 because it was discovered that the economic, social and cultural rights of some were tried to rank lower than the civil and political ones. The Vienna Conference was the first conference of human rights after the Cold War, and it took place among others. to take a declaration with the rhetoric of the cold war around human rights. Then the West stood to the East, the United States to the Soviets, and the idea of economic, social and cultural dishes as something communist became more widespread, and thus there was also a question of political identity. This show is in all respects wrong, and we might even see it more clearly if we go a little bit back in time, to the 1948 Declaration of Human Rights and the 1966 UN Conventions. In those documents, the world community tried to learn from World War II. Under the Nazi regime, it was precisely how systematic indoctrination in education and coercion and discrimination in areas such as work, living standards and health made it possible to commit abuses and to legitimise violations of all other courts. In other words, the violation of economic, social and cultural rights was in many ways a barometer for what came next. It's a little bit of prehistory. I wish it were just that, history, not to mention, that there was a debate that at least didn't go on now, too fully in Norway in 2014, 200 years after we got our constitution, and many years after the human rights as a legal concept were developed, because the distinction between the civil and political rights on one side and the economic, social and cultural rights on the other is only theoretical, analytical and historically interesting. The modern, progressive and solidarity is to see that these dishes are mutually dependent on each other. The statement we have in our big business today is a statement one has had on a number of international arenas through the course of history. Given that we have today, more than anything else comes from a central misconception, that one can be free without having firm ground under their feet, strong without having support, and a participant without having access to knowledge. At this historic crossroads where for the first time in Norway's history we have a holistic discussion about what human rights are going to enter our constitution, I am proud to listen to a party and a movement that underpins modern, progressive and solidarity. History will show that we were right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2126	The Constitution is the law of the people. That's the way it was when it was adopted 200 years ago, and that's the way it is today. It laid the foundation for our rule of the people and our democracy. The Constitution asserted emphatically that power derives from the people, and that all the exercise of power had to have legitimacy in the people, but it was also an important contribution to recognising the people as the turning point of society. That we chose to build our nation on values like humanism and equivalency tells something about the recognition of the individual human being and of the people as the bearer of society. Thus, the Basic Law is not only a manifestation of our rights as citizens, our freedom and our inviolability; it is also the starting point for a modern human vision. The Constitution gives us freedom, but it also gives us the right to exercise our freedom. Writing «freedom» on a paper does not make any fries. It is when, as citizens, we are given the opportunity and the right to exercise freedom, that the freedom we have been given is real. Therefore, it is natural that the Constitution also includes social, economic and cultural rights. These are rights that oblige the state to facilitate citizens to live good lives, rights that give citizens more freedom. It strengthens the Constitution, it strengthens the people, and it strengthens us as a nation. Modern Norway is a multicultural Norway. Multiculture is not new in our country, but it is relatively new to give multicultural status and recognition. It's not least something the Sami population has experienced now, after many decades of hard-to-reach, that hit a people, but that also hit individuals, in the form that children were sent away to boarding school to learn Norwegian, that people were forced to change surnames in order to get permission to own land, and that many people saw having to distance themselves from the language, denied their background, in order to find a place in Norwegian society. The head of the Human Rights Committee, Inge Wohnung, and the rest of the selection, presented a proposal for the renewal of the Constitution § 108, on the right to Sami language, culture and social life, so that it would be explicit that together is a people or indigenous people. The reason was and is that the weight has shifted from group as a minority to group as an indigenous person, which was first presented and discussed in detail in the first study of the Joint Court Committee in 1984. It is a pity that such a recognition of togetherness as people or indigenous people does not get a majority in this Chamber today, because the Right Party and the Advance Party are voting against. It stands in very clear contrast to the King's very clear statement when he opened the Sameting in 1997, when he concluded that the state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, namely the North and Samer. I believe that first and foremost the Right, who has stood in the front, in fact, for a paragraph that recognises together as people or indigenous people in the Human Rights Committee, and then added it as a constitution proposal in the previous period, to say no to it, has a big explanation problem. It says something about the Court's fundamental conservative society's view when they today refuse to state that the state authorities should facilitate the cooperation as indigenous peoples to secure and develop their language, culture and social life. A constitution shall reflect its time. Modern Norwegian common policies are based on the fact that communities have indigenous status nationally and internationally, and it is a pity that the Right Party and the Progressive Party do not contribute to a constitution in the pact with our time in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2145	When we're asked what's the most important invention in history, we tend to answer a technology: the wheel, the electricity, or maybe the computer. In the Marxist spirit, getting a victory, we give primacy to the material. But a very good candidate to be the most important invention in history, I believe are human rights. In order for human rights to exist as a whole, we humans must have an idea of the individual as something autonomous and completely owned. And we're not going that far back – at least if one thinks that 700-800 years isn't that far back – until there really wasn't a clear and clear idea that man was whole and full himself and inviolably. Although there may be different views of it, one might say that it was broken up from the middle age that created that idea in different ways. The renaissance, the idea that through science and thinking we can actually find our own best -- it's not given us -- put the individual in the center. It also rebelled against religion. It was not God-given, but should be more of a relationship between the individual and God – one had to find the true say. From the information period, it crystallizes what I want to say is three different types of ideas that, in sum, form the basis for what we understand today as human rights. The first is the idea that man is free and inviolable and should get thought and express himself freely. Especially the 17th century philosopher Voltaire and before he John Locke are important exponents of this vision. The second is the idea that there is a contract between man and the ruler – that we have a responsibility for more than ourselves in a community. If I'm going to get my rights met, it must be a collective that cares for it. The first one to put it clearly is perhaps the French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau — also in the 1700s. I'm referring to this in particular, because there seem to be a lot of people who think of it as ideas that we have a responsibility for the individual through the community first arose once in the last hundred years, but that, among other things, we have a responsibility for the individual through the community. The representative Tajik was in the room, there are clear traces of this in early constitutions, and it goes back to the ideas from the information period. The third is the idea that there is right and wrong – that through our senses we can distinguish between good and bad actions. Especially Immanuel Kant is an exponent for this with its moral philosophy. So these ideas spread gradually outwards, and in my view they merge into human rights. The fact that we have universal human rights laws today – that we have managed to concrete and gather about them globally, and even to implement them to a great extent in many countries – is a great step forward for human beings. Maybe that's the greatest progress we've made in organizing ourselves rationally, where we actually take responsibility for each other. Many of the dishes we're discussing today are in this picture. The whole reason why we can have them is the idea that something is right and something is wrong. We have an idea that torture is wrong and is capable of putting him into life. The second thing I want to call the individual dishes. Some people here call them the civil courts, the right to express themselves freely or what we are doing today a great deal of progress, that is, the rights of our children. There is someone who treats them as civilian, civil courts that do not have costs. It's completely incomprehensible to me. Many of those dishes — not least children’s rights — have a huge cost to society. So as a society, we take on a huge burden through them as well. So it's part of the dishes we're dealing with today, which is about the relationship between the individual and society. Again, someone is talking about those who are the state's responsibility to man. But they link us individually into a community and share responsibility, for the only way we can ensure good education, good help when we are sick, worthy living conditions and the right to asylum, is that we do it in a form of community. That's why, in my view, it's also very artificial to separate them into two categories. They are part of the whole, just as they are expressed in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Perhaps I had wanted a debate today that was more of a conversation than he has been shown to be. Not least, I might have wanted a debate with even greater progress. However, I think it is important to celebrate that we are making important progress. Right's historical role is to preserve. They'll keep doing that, but we'll win in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2173	I am going to address some of the points that have emerged in the debate, but first I have to make a presentation to the President-in-Office. We're also talking to future lawmakers, so I have to clarify something in Section 101, second paragraph. That section says that house search must not take place except in criminal cases. I just have to stress that the term ‘criminal cases’ here should not be restricted to police work to prevent, avert or solve crime. This means that ‘in criminal cases’, pre-positioning should not be understood as a purely thematic reference to the fight against crime, without imposing a specific requirement for the criminal boundary to be violated. It is natural, of course, to give detailed provisions on this limitation in the form of other ordinary law. During the exchange of replies concerning § 116 after my post, it seemed that the representatives from the Left considered demography and constitutional emergency law to be a whole new idea in Norway. It's not. It's part of our constitutional practice, it's part of the EMK, and several other institutions have such a provision. Questions were raised when it occurred. What is a state of war or crisis? It has been discussed in the form of a note, in the preparatory work here and also by the Human Rights Committee: ‘There must be a state of emergency threatening the country; the derogation from the right must be necessary to ensure the country from an imminent danger and the derogation must be of a temporary nature. Emergency conditions are to be read here as a crisis that threatens larger parts of the population, the basic structures of society or the existence of the kingdom.» The representative Rotevatn raised the question of whether the event on July 22 was such an event. It discusses the Human Rights Committee very thoroughly and says it was not such an event. In such a state it is not certain that the decision can be taken in Stortinget, because it is not certain that the Stortinget is able to be taken. But the new thing about incorporating that provision is that the decisions can be made by politicians, not just by courts like today. In addition, it is important to establish that something is inevitable. It's important, because it's about something as important as the right to life, the prohibition of torture, the imposition of a sentence for punishment and the prohibition of retaliation. In the debate that has taken place today, we have heard Right-wing defenders of central rights differing from anything – in contrast to the rights that Right-wing have designated as rights with a ‘flash factor’. It is a little difficult to identify the criteria to be met in order to be included in this category – the category of ‘disney provisions’ that representatives from the Right have also designated these rights as. Similarly, the ‘slag’ of the Constitution has also been a term used for economic, social and cultural rights. In his article, the representative Tetzschner signed between them and what he calls the real rights. What's the difference between that and that? What is the difference in principle between basic health care and education and the responsibility of the State for it? What are you going to do with general support if you don't have the resources to heal your health if you're sick? The right argued that they are in order to include provisions on education in the Constitution in order to create equality of opportunity. In particular, if the possibility is important for a batch, basic health care needs to be provided and considered important. There's something that provides the basis for probability. In a law where health care is not important, but education is important, there is a logical flaw. It's impossible, even after many hours of debate, to understand how that logic works. If the politicians of the future are not to be concerned with safeguarding the health of the population, what are they going to do about it? Right-wing confidence in the politicians of the future can be heard in the debate today. I do, too, but today we have the opportunity to protect ourselves against those who gain power and turn that power against those who have given it to them, against the people who have given them confidence. History is full of such examples. The right-hand side also presents something else that I do not understand either. In his speech on economic, social and cultural rights, the rapporteur, Mr Tetzschner, said that fundamental laws on economic, social and cultural rights would have the effect of weakening central rights. To that I have a few questions: What are the central rights in this regard? The right has promoted education as a central right, while fundamental health is not a central right. What's the principal difference between the two? I see that the representative Tetzschner points to the civil and political rights when he mentions the central rights here. But what is the empirical evidence that the rights are weakened by the inclusion of economic, social and cultural rights in the Constitution? Where is the proof that it can happen? Why has it not occurred in other countries with a long tradition for both types of rights? Germany is such an example. There has been a good discussion of children's rights in the debate. It's very good in a day like this. The best interests of children shall always be in front of their parents' rights. Parents are not entitled to their children, but children are entitled to the security and absence of violence. It has been elevated above biological association and other parental affiliations. Security is the child’s own independent right for which society has a duty to protect. It is something we can be proud of today, that we finally – and overtime – make it clear in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2202	I think I'll start by thanking you for the interest in my posts. It's always satisfying. So I think we're going to take things a little bit more accurately than some people have done when they've referred to me, because they've done some shortcuts. At the opening today, I tried to sketch out what I thought was good law. The fact that some of the human rights regulations that have been proposed did not satisfy what I am claiming as a legal requirement is not the same as that all attempts in that direction have failed. So it's not a general characteristic of rights regulations as useless in the law. What I've been up to, on the other hand, is to argue that certain choices are made that have consequences, when we promise provisions that are part of our welfare legislation, into the Constitution. The interesting thing was that we got a long and great review of former cultural miner Hadia Tajik, and there was a lot I agreed with. But what I seem to have gleaned with his absence, and it is also sweeping from some other speakers, is that they have not at all taken up the challenge of excluding some legal application from this Chamber, from the Storting, from the ongoing political debate, from democracy, and bringing it into another department where there are the courts and their understanding of the purpose paragraphs that will prevail. It's a legal act. I also spent time in a previous post today quoting the country's former Supreme Justice Justice who just pointed out that development. It wasn't a scare image. From a lawyer's point of view, it was rather a desirable and beautiful development because you may not always have the same confidence in the politicians. But there are some of us who may feel that politicians deserve better. Even though I realize that I have a big task, I have to try again – as far as human rights are concerned – to say: what made me take a little repetition of it, was not least Solhjell's posts that contained very much right, except that some of the most ancient in the theory of law is the idea of a social contract. There's also someone else who's been using it here. It's really an early phase of human rights. It's a development stage we're no longer in. Historically, I don't think anyone can deny that human rights are individual rights that belong to any individual human being and that are intended to represent a defence against a strong administrative power, whatever its form. Traditionally, this has been the Church and the King, but the central government has gradually taken over the role of the greatest threat to the integrity of the individual. The deciduous greatest threat to the individual has not been other individuals. There have been state powers that have gone mad. The purpose of the fundamental law establishing rights is to remove certain issues from the political debate, where the point is that the State should be cut off from making certain balances of interest to the State or the Community should not be allowed to make. You should not be allowed to arbitrarily internalise certain citizens, even if you believe that this should be done. There is therefore a need for certain rights to be enshrined in fundamental law when the State or the Community is at risk of going beyond the unenforceable limit expressed in the German Constitution of 1949, Article 1, which was also referred to earlier, correctly in another provision. It is not difficult to see that the ESC rights do not fit into this picture. These rights set no limit on what state power can do. On the contrary, they impose on the State a task of making arrangements that will lead to a certain result, even if we can agree with the desirability of these results. They impose trade obligations no matter how discretionary and vague they may be. But that's the task we have politicians to do for us. I also want to give an example where the sample has also dealt with the problem of precise legal definitions. For example, under culture, it says read: ‘The concept of culture is broad. It includes all manifestations of human existence, such as: ways of living in, language, oral or written literature, music and song, non-verbal communication, religion and belief systems, rites and ceremonies, sports and games, production methods and technologies, the natural and cultural environment, food, clothing and buildings, and art, customs and traditions. Culture creates and reflects values about what is a good life and the economic, social and political life of individuals, groups and society.» When it comes to having this as a background to introducing certain legal consequences of the concept of culture to legislation, it is clear that it will be highly discretionary. It becomes an impossible task, and it is a task we should not impose on the courts of the country: to fill in a more detailed, concrete content of these very vague, open and, in the case of borders, totally contourless terms. This is the task of policy. I also noticed that the representative Hareide was so pleased with the Christian People's Party's work on family matters. Yes, of course it is an achievement to have the Workers' Party write something about the family, but in legal terms it is not much to go with. It's a family concept that's completely watered down to the unrecognizable, as you've agreed that the family concept is based on some of the challenges you've known in the past. While family life is now more diverse than that of the nuclear family or the large family. The many different family forms make it hard to say what is a family. The Committee would stress that the concept of a family includes many different types of life: married couples with and without children, cohabitants with and without children, gay couples with and without children, single parents living with children, cohabiting parents, single parents with foster children and single residents, etc. So after having a very rough definition, you're not able to say that this unit is the basic unit of society. That's where we've allowed ourselves to look at what EMK writes about this. Without problemating it out in the parody, they have actually been able to say that the family is the basic unit — the basic unit. Then we think it's better said than to have a Norwegian variant with a weakened family concept. Then you get to think about why the Christian People's Party of all are the ones who are satisfied with this heavily washed-out form of family definition, which is not supposed to be used for anything – it has no legal successor. Then we realize that this is bad lawmaking. Then what I have in another context called filling – in the sense of filling words – maybe ‘slag’, and the Constitution loses its value, because it becomes a conspiracy of serious thought rights for citizens, on the basis of which they can sue, and political statements that are not worth anything, if you try to assert their right. I would like to end by saying that Helga Pedersen could not have been here earlier today, or perhaps not listened to the debate, when she says that we are going against the rights of our fellows. We want to keep today's description of the people's group. There is no one who has contradicted me about the fact that there is not one person out or one person in, whether we use one or the other name. The rule of law is described as exactly the same, and the advantage of using the old wording is that we can then, in full boldness, continue to build on the NOU, the position of the Joint Court Committee itself, because we have not changed the concept. This is very important, because it means that § 110 still, in its present and future form, could have a very rich motif material from that investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2231	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2234	In a schoolbook that I found, I could read: «Over 2000 ago, a Roman poet named Lucircle lived. He wrote a text that said that religion made humans unhappy and rescued. They were plagued by believing in the sinister gods which they had created." It went on to say: ‘This is an example of ancient religious criticism.’ Freedom of expression, of course, also applies to religion. But we in the Workers' Party would like to strengthen it by getting religion into Section 100, so that he becomes: ‘Everyone has the right to express himself boldly on government, religion and any other subject.’ Real freedom of expression is a fundamental element of a democratic society. Power politics cannot be used to stifle free debate. Therefore, strong legal protection of freedom of expression is important. The right to express itself freely about religion is covered by the general freedom of expression, and one may, of course, say that «any other subject» prevails religion. We in the Labour Party will, however, raise it and clarify freedom of expression, so that he includes the right to religious criticism. It is that religious institutions can often have a particular impact on individuals, and hence religion may be an area where freedom of expression is particularly important. Even if not all statements are equally valuable, and there should be a balance between what one should say, and respect for the religion of man, yet religious criticism must, of course, be a part of the public debate. Therefore, the Workers' Party will support the change of Section 100. I want to end by saying that I thought it was a nice week, only when we adopted the new one for a week ago. Today we take a good step, we get children's courts into the Constitution, we get the right to education, the right to work and nutrition, and many more. It's positive, but I should like us to come a little further. I had hoped that the Right could have turned into some things, so maybe we could have got multiples, for example. for asylum, standard of living and health. But anyway, I thought we should be happy about what we're getting, and bet the rest is coming soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2258	There are many communities in our society. However, some are of the opinion that community is something created by politicians. It may be, but there are so many other important communities in society that are not state-driven or political. One of these communities is the family, as the very foundation of the many communities we have in society. We in the Right believe that the family is a natural, valuable and fundamental element of society, which forms an important framework for children's growth and future. We believe that the position of the family in Norwegian society needs to be strengthened, rather than that the public is increasingly making decisions on behalf of the family. The family as a community and pillar of all its variations in a modern society, to which many have referred today, is committed to the European Convention on Human Rights, to which Norway has committed itself. It says here that the family is the basic unit of society. In the proposal to amend Section 103 on which the minority now refers, it states: ‘Family is a fundamental entity of society’. In our view, this is a weaker wording than that of the European Convention on Human Rights, because it does not point in particular to the family as the basic unit of society. The reason why I take the floor in this case is that someone has said that the right is weakening the family position by not voting with the minority regarding § 103. In my opinion, it is wrong. In fact, the minority is doing this with their wording, because as long as we have the European Convention of Human Rights and an ordinary law, the convention overrides the law. If we include this in the Constitution, the Constitution does not override the Convention. So that's the opposite of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2274	The Christian People's Party has for several periods proposed changes to the Constitution on the right to life. The right to life is the most fundamental of all human rights. What is more natural than that this court also becomes part of our constitution? Respect for life and human dignity is one of the fundamental principles of our cultural heritage and characterizes our society through both legislation and ethical standards. All humans have an inviolable value in being human. Human dignity cannot be graduated, therefore, this right is the starting point for the Christian People's Party's policy – that human life has infinite value in all phases of life, from the beginning, conception, to a natural death. Human dignity is not conditional on gender, race, age, sexual orientation, health or functioning. The development of medicine is constantly facing new problems and challenges, especially in the first and final stages of life. Human dignity shall not be graduated – not according to the age of the foetus, not according to characteristics and disease. Who is going to talk about the case of the fetus if we politicians, who are set to administer the law, are going to do so? Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the right to life must become a reality even from the time of the conception of. Our society is becoming increasingly complicated, not least in the field of technology. Biotechnology gives us opportunities and can do a lot for us humans. Researchers are constantly demonstrating their innovations, and part of this research is taking place in the borderline between life and death, and the challenges are that we are at risk of crossing important ethical boundaries. Biotechnology also touches on values that are central to our society – the value of man and a society with space for all. On the other side of the life cycle, we will promote the right to live. Even if you are 80 years old and you may have had a heart attack or a heart attack, you have to get as much treatment as possible, and in the final phase of life, you have to focus on dignity and relief. The Christian People's Party believes that more than ever we need a tabular paragraph in our most fundamental law that promises the right to life highly – not because such a paragraph alone will lead to so much concrete in the short term, but because for the future it will be an important signal to remind everyone and everyone, not least the legislators, if the fundamental values of our society and our law are built on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2289	In my opinion, the representative Skei Grande made a very thoughtful article here a while ago. She brought up a principle that is very important in the context of constitutional treatment here today, to which I too will draw attention, and that is what is attached to minority rights. Unfortunately, it is – and it has become very clear in the debate – that the right-wing parties are preventing a comprehensive and good solution here today. But I almost want to say it this way – to make it very clear: all in all, the worst thing is that they don't support a new paragraph that deals with the situation of the group. I think that's the worst part. In fact, in connection with the 200th anniversary, we should have made sure that together got this right and the place in the Constitution that they really deserve. I hear representatives Michael Tetzschner's legal considerations about this, and I say that maybe – maybe – I can't measure myself with Michael Tetzschner in terms of legal interpretations and understandings, but when it comes to politics, I'm not that bad. And this is about politics, this is about the fact that there is a proposal on the table that has been drawn up and that has been prepared for years, that together should have the paragraph that connects with either the indigenous people or the Sami people. But it's also blocked by the right parties. That's very regrettable, because there's something Michael Tetzschner doesn't have the power to explain at all, is that it would be contrary to the legal understanding of the Constitution that you don't take care of minorities. In any case, he has not been able to explain that with his legal wording. The policy in this is quite obvious: they do not want it for different political reasons. It is so new, and it is completely contrary to what the Right has meant earlier. It's unfortunate, but I keep this post as I do now. The last thing that time allows – to the extent that I am able to say it so quickly – is, of course, related to this that has to do with the other understanding of the law of the representative Tetzschner. I'm just saying – for the time being, no more is allowed: in all the hearings, in all the understandings we've met from the legal environment, Michael Tetzschner and the Røjres Storingsgruppe are alone about that understanding. There is no one else in our hearings who has said that the insertion of economic and social rights is a deterioration of the Constitution. On the contrary, it is said that it is a strengthening of the Constitution and that it does not interfere with the Legal Authority of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2298	First to the representative of the Christian People's Party: it is now assumed that we protect the right to life, but it will not be the version of the Christian People's Party, which would reopen an abortion debate that the majority obviously does not want, and which should be rejected. So I ask that it not be produced as if the right to life is not protected by the majority, because it is. So to the economic and social rights, which are not, as the representative Tetzschner says, in the periphery of human rights. The note from the Association of Advocates for examination in the Committee states: ‘Today, international human rights are a matter of course also covering economic, social and cultural rights.’ The Helsinki Committee says that this has been a unit from the very beginning, that it is the same rights, that it strengthens and balances each other, that, in this view, human rights are above ideological priorities of rights, that the different rights are part of an overall protection of human fundamental dignity, and that the rights of the World Declaration and subsequent documents are not a buffet table to be chosen and rejected – as Right does today. Finally, we have chosen selectively to extract quotations from the country's former Supreme Court Justice, Carsten Smith, from whom I have also quoted. I will complete what Carsten Smith says, and as Tetzschner chooses not to say, namely: ‘Secondly, I point out that this Convention was one of the two main conventions developed by the United Nations to implement the World Declaration. I believe that precisely Norway — of all countries — should be able to give some of the welfare country’s rights the highest rank through the Constitution.’ And... ‘Degrading these’, i.e. the social and economic rights, ‘to a B team would be a breach of the vision of the coherence and universality of the rights’. With regard to the power of the courts, it's the way we actually adopt these laws that the courts are going to use, and it's the way that it's a counter-power, as Carsten Smith says, that is. counter-power against the governmental bodies which will take decisions which are contrary to human rights. Human rights shall provide protection against acts and omissions primarily from public authorities and primarily from minorities and those who cannot defend those rights. So the core of human rights is that we are willing to legalise them, and that we are willing to control the political priorities we are making, including economic and social.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2324	The principle of legality has been proposed in a new section 113: «The intervention of the authorities towards each person must be based on law.» The term «individual» can be regarded as unlucky, for the requirement of law in force today includes not only intervention against the individual but also against legal persons. The Committee's proceedings have not established any circumstances in which it is intended that the legal situation should be changed. Therefore, I would like to stress that the intervention by the authorities towards the individual in the view of the Centre party should be understood in such a way that the term in new Section 113 also includes legal persons, as it is understood today. The centre party is strongly attached to today's § 110, on the right to work. The centre party also supports new § 111 on standard of living and health. After hearing the debate today, I do not see that there are any changes in the parties' voting regarding the new section 111. This does not mean that this paragraph will have the required two-thirds majority. The wording of the first paragraph of Section 111 of Option 1 B is: «The authorities of the Member States shall respect and ensure the right to a satisfactory standard of living». I'd like to say, look at this background, the Central Party of the Inst. 187 S will subsidize proposal No. 7 to § 110, first paragraph, option 1 B, the last sentence of which is: «The person who is unable to provide his own living shall have the right to public support.» Thus, the Central Party will contribute to a necessary constitutional change in this area, seas if § 111 is not adopted. So to § 108, about Sami language and culture, which the representative Kolberg was also involved in. I would also like to stress that the Sami people, with their language and culture, must now have the place they deserve. I referred to Norway as a national state being established in the territory of two peoples – the Norwegian people and the Sami people. The term ‘people’ is much clearer and stronger both in national and international legislation than the term ‘ur people’. The term ‘people’ therefore has a much stronger position than ‘ur people’. We have support among our most well-recognized co-political acquaintances, among others. Ole Henrik Magga, who has also been involved in developing the understanding and basic recognition of the Center Party on this important topic. To the representative, Mr Tetzschner, I would like to say: the representative, Mr Tetzschner, wanted to keep the term ‘Samian People's Groups’, with reference to the position of the Committee on Civil Liberties. I would just like to point out that, in the 1984 Joint Court Committee's first interim position on the legal status of a group, it was concluded that, in all respects, cooperation is to be regarded as a people. Therefore, everything should be in the right to vote subsidiaryly for groups like people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2335	The right to health care is one of the pillars of our health and social legislation. Over the years, the right has fought for patient rights here in Stortinget. At the NRK last night, the representative Christensen said that what she and the Workers' Party are concerned about is the citizens of the future. Of course, it is affordable and necessary to be concerned with those who come after us; it is a generational perspective we should all have in our political function. However, she also admitted that the changes proposed in the field of health will not change the legal state of the day. Historically, the Labour Party has been held back — some may call them backward - in introducing important new patient rights, patient rights that many of us today take not only for granted but are crucial for rapid treatment and important health care. Rights such as free hospital choice and individual medical deadlines and rights have taken time before the Workers' Party has given its support. Now they are clearly opposed to giving patients the right to free treatment. There is a fundamentally important difference between the Workers' Party and the Right in this matter. I therefore have little understanding of the sharp criticism of the Workers' Party that I have read – that we are failing the future. The right is constantly working to establish rights through the law that are relevant to patients in their lives now and in the future, while the Workers' Party is more concerned with adopting symbolic formulations in the Constitution that they themselves admit will have no impact on patients' rights or health care. I therefore support my party's conservative attitude not to change the Constitution in terms of wording around health that can help to create interpretation and doubt. We should be aware that there can always be a discussion about compliance with the rules, and it is important that it is the Storting itself that determines how we fulfil these health rights, which we have already taken on by the Human Rights Act. It's not a matter for the courts. I am proud that the Right and Government continuously improve patients' rights through current legislation, in line with the needs of our citizens and our ever stronger ability to weave a secure and strong social security network.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2349	Policy shall be pursued in this Chamber. Policy needs to be pursued by politicians – today and also in the future. As I said yesterday, and as it was referred to here, these constitutional changes are not going to change the legal state of the day. That's absolutely right. Because today, as elected politicians, we have to make political decisions here. What these Constitutional provisions are meant to be, is a direction, an objective, for policy in the future, a designation of some responsibilities that future politicians cannot give away from, a responsibility that future politicians cannot ignore. There is no misinterpretation of a provision such as: «the authorities of the Member States shall provide the public with the necessary health care». How to achieve that goal is up to the politicians, of course, but that right is just as important to the Workers' Party as the right to higher education, the right to higher education and the right to school that Right is in. That's the difference between the two I can't see. For both of them, fundamental rights. Both are fundamental potential pillars for a human being to survive and enjoy all the other freedoms, all the other provisions that we are adopting today, and all the other provisions that we already have in the Constitution. They are important for the Constitution to apply to absolutely all people, including in the future. The representative, Tetzschner, said in his statement that it is impossible for the courts to fill in a concrete content of the term ‘culture’. It could be. That is why the Committee has done so. In annotated form, the Committee states: ‘The majority consider this provision not to be a unilateral right for individuals, but an obligation for the authorities of the State to respect and facilitate the ability of individuals to take part in cultural life. Tests may be made on whether there is an early involvement in which cultural activities may be involved and how culture should be expressed.’;» That's why we want to legislate on this – in order to give these rights a framework in the Constitution, so that we can provide the courts with a political interpretation basis, a missing interpretation basis, and an interpretative basis that can be given to the future by legislating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2363	Before I explain why I am voting as I am going to do, I want to say briefly what I think of the public debate that has been. Once you have been able to read in the paper that representatives from my party and the Progress Party have gone to work today to fail the future, you have to ask yourself if that is the kind of debate you would like to have about the Constitution. What should have been a thorough debate has become a tabloid debate. Was that how we wanted to celebrate our anniversary? Was it one party's desire to get a new moment in its history story about Norway, as they see it, that would be climaxing in the 200th anniversary? I am among those who believe that a good debate on the Constitution should not be sacrificed on the altar of self-satisfaction. It also means that I protest against the idea that I see that someone has argued, that the Right is not concerned with economic and social rights. There's a big difference between that and wanting it into the country's constitution. Overall, I would like to say that I am surprised at how little public debate there has been on this revision – the biggest since 1814. Perhaps, as some have pointed out, it may be worth recalling the Constitution § 112. Can we say with our heart that the 2013 elections had a real and informed influence on whether and how the Constitution was to be revised when choosing which party to vote on? I don't think so. It has been used as a point to review the Constitution in the year of the anniversary. Could it be that the weight you put on that point has had consequences for the processing? Could it be that questions of interpretation have not been adequately addressed and assessed? I don't think we should stress the demands that you normally make for thoroughness less when you are going to review the Constitution than when you are going to make law decisions. There is a fundamental distinction between the positive and the negative freedoms. The fact that I mean it does not mean that I am not concerned with the right to health. I'm clear about it, and that's how we organize ourselves in society today, all parties agree on it without it being stated in the Constitution. It is a democratic and political decision. The Constitution tells us where the power of the state stops. It tells us about the distribution of power and the rights we have in power of being human. It describes freedom from the rights, which is the basis for us to politically introduce freedom to rights in ordinary law. If we include the ESC rights in the Constitution, we introduce a different concept of rights than what it already says. For me, personally, it concerns all the ESC rights, and that means that I am going to vote against all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2378	This is an exciting day. I have to admit that after more than seven months of work, I still think it is great to be allowed into this room, completely independent of the case, but of course it is a special privilege to be allowed to participate in changes to the Norwegian constitution. I believe that the work we are all doing here in our daily work is based on a genuine desire for the best for the individual and the community of Norway. That's why it's a little sad when some big-time colleagues think that the Right Representatives will stand up in the morning with a desire to fail the future. I have the assumption that no matter how much disagreement I disagree with my colleagues, regardless of the party, every proposal – and I really believe that – has its origin in a desire to do well. I have so far actually believed that one of the strengths of Norwegian democracy is the mutual respect between the parties. A constitution shall be an ideal for us in terms of fundamental human rights such as voting rights, freedom of expression, freedom of organisation and equality. Nevertheless, what we call fundamental democratic rights, often in turn. Regular intervals are discussed, for example: the right to express itself, such as: in connection with the cartoons in 2006 or the Snowden revelations last year. At least sometimes we like to compare ourselves to, like the United Kingdom and the United States, using terrorist acts as a basis for a national crisis awareness to override privacy and freedom of expression. That is why I am, among other things, pleased that the derogation paragraph does not appear to have the necessary majority. My point is that we see that many current day debates are sometimes brought with them high noise levels and low precision levels. Therefore, it is important that the Basic Law is not just an ideal we are reaching for, but a robust and solid foundation for decisions that should last over time. It also concerns the debate on social, cultural and economic rights. I am surprised at the willingness to transfer power from this hall to interpretation in the courts. Because there is a distinction between political ambitions and what are fundamental rights and driving rules for democracy. Even the class struggle has seen this and today writes: «The Law regulates the functioning of this community, but the social objectives that can be achieved at any time are determined by social development.» I didn't see it coming. Why should a satisfactory standard of living be a more important prerequisite for using freedoms other than for example. to legislate on the right of access to the Internet? Some people always refer to teens' Constitutional Understanding as the reason for writing about the Constitution, but I would think that for some teenagers it would also be incomprehensible that not access to Facebook is a human right, so I don't think that's a particularly good reason. Anyway, I'm happy for tonight's vote. The constitution we've had up until today has led us to the top of the list of the world's most democratic countries. I feel a little sorry for those who believe that today's decision is possibly a betrayal of the future. That statement I think will hardly stand over time. I think today's decision will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2396	I understand that the representative Tetzschner was not quite happy that I did not address two problem settings that he had raised before, so I would like to use the opportunity to do so now. One was that the representative Tetzschner believes that the legal definitions in part of the economic, social and cultural rights are not precise enough for one to take them into the Constitution. The second is that one by taking them in there, moving power. First of all, I would like to point out that the definitions are precise enough to allow the Right to give them priority in Norwegian law – that is, not only does one have it in ordinary law, but one thinks that they are so central and so important – and clearly also precise and good enough – that one will give them priority in Norwegian law. In that case, the legal definitions used by the representative, Mr Tetzschner, are difficult to achieve. The consequences that the representative is concerned about may already be few. I understand that he was afraid that someone could demand their dishes when the legal definitions were so imprecise, and what would that mean? There's something on your mind that can already happen, because a lot of this already exists in different ways in Norwegian law, and then there's no legal sequence the representative is concerned about, but the height of the step, because there's something we're doing here. So one might say that when one changes the height of a step, one also changes the legal sequences, but it's hard to follow that reasoning when one sees that other European countries that have incorporated economic, social and cultural rights into their basic laws have not gained the experience that the representative here is concerned about. The second is moving power from politicians to the court. Yes, we do. By including this in the Constitution, we limit political power. But first of all, it's a wanted delimitation, and it's a marginal delimitation. It's the outer edges of the Constitutional Society, and what we might look at as of course today, we have no guarantees for being viewed as of course in the future. Then it's an honest thing to say that one will not bind future politicians to minimum standards – minimum standards of freedom and dignity. But we will. We don't think the minimum standards are up for discussion. So it's not about detailed descriptions that bind democratically elected governments to choose one or the other solution. The political space for action is quite large. But that's the perimeter that we're defining. We use the civilised society as a security valve, simply the power distribution principle, and we say that there are some dishes that are so central, so important, that we don't want them to be simple for politicians to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2407	I also want to say something about these social and cultural rights that someone wants to get into the Constitution. Like the representative Tetzschner, I believe that this is wishful thinking. The rights of the Constitution must be universal, and the Constitution is, unlike the representative of Tajik, something other than the regular law. The fundamental rights are the rights you have by virtue of being human, as it has also been said from this pulpit. Let's go back in time. It would be unthinkable to have social and cultural rights adopted in the Constitution 50 years ago – 20 and 30 years ago also, for that matter, not because it was not willing to do so, but because the cash register was empty. There was no money in the cash register to pay for it. The state is nothing but you and me, the state is the collective we have together, which is going to pay for the benefits and the rights we adopt here. So you move politics from the main hall to the courtroom. You do it knowingly and willfully. So you can't go to elections on other priorities. If the right to education has been adopted — yes, the right to education has been adopted. Then you can't go to the elections to privatize the school. Now no one wants to privatize the school, but it could be possible that in the future someone would go to the elections to privatize the school, and that not the public paid the school, but that each one would pay. If you get this into the Constitution, you can't go to the elections. It will then be decided in the courtroom, and it is already decided in the Constitution. But why stop there? Can't we go a little bit further? Why not adopt 1 million. In social security? Why not adopt 14 weeks' vacation? Why not adopt four hours of work day? That would have been excellent. We can also put that into the Constitution, and then we would have secured all of these amazing rights. But these are, in fact, political priorities – we must not legislate for these things. For the policy is simply a matter of policy priorities. To the representative of Kolberg, who says he's good at politics, and I'm not in doubt about: he says that this is politics. No, it's not politics. The rights of the Constitution are not politics; it is far more important than politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2425	I asked for the word because I think it was interesting and at the same time, I have to say, a little specifically when the representative Tetzschner characterises the family formula in Section 103 as ‘slag’, if I understood it correctly. For me, slag is something that one wants to get rid of, something that one wants to throw at the boat. It's said that it's uninteresting to support because it can't be tried in court. The wording proposed by the Wages and Wages Committee and the previous one, ‘the family is a basic unit’, is strongly attacked by Tetzschner because it wants the wording ‘the basic unit’. I'm going to agree that it might have been an even better formulation. But then one has to ask why not the Right suggested a different wording in the previous enlargement period if one was busy with the family, as I clearly feel that one says both in comments and otherwise, and here has not suggested it as a real wish. Then I would like to ask further: What about the ESC rights that are supported by the Right? The right to work, how shall it be subject to judicial review? Is it also ‘slag’, but one still chooses to support. On me, the thinking from the Right seems a little bit consistent. I think it can be seen that the Right, despite good remarks about the family's function in society as an institution, today, through its vote, signals that the family does not have a place in the Constitution and thus in practice helps to reduce rather than strengthen the family's importance in society. The central human rights should have a content that should not only be subject to legal review, but I also thought we agreed that they should have a valuable and political function that signals something about how we want to build this society. It seems to me that the right here chooses to ignore a very important aspect of incorporating human rights into the Constitution. Finally, I'm glad that we are now involved in integrating central human rights into the Constitution. We could have thought even more, but we still believe that in this way we are part of and equip ourselves as human beings and societies to meet all that had to threaten human rights in the present and future. Then I'll just finally clarify that in Innst. 186 S is a Christian People's Party by mistake not included in the majority of the Committee on Section 104, fourth paragraph. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Christian People's Party will be part of this majority and support this proposal. We should have been written into this majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2442	The representative Martin Kolberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2445	It's a sentence or two I'll say before my speaking time is over. It was the representative Tetzschner – again – who said in his previous post that the Workers' Party had in many ways abandoned the wording and intentions of the Wage Committee. I strongly protest that. The purpose of the Wage Committee was to create a comprehensive package of civil and economic human rights. That's what's going to be broken, and that's what's standing for. That is what is sad when we are now going to vote: we are not getting a whole solution, we are getting half a solution, and I repeat what I said before, namely that this must be the right hand party and the Progress Party also take responsibility for in the historical perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2452	I am absolutely sure that all the representatives and all my colleagues on the Stortinget today are doing well. Whatever case we're arguing about, I'm sure that absolutely everyone here is doing their very best and what they think is best for those we're going to represent. But it's not sure it's going to be like that forever. We have no guarantee of that. Once it may be that someone comes to power, who uses it in a way that is not just wrong, but who is against those who have given them that power. We have been given the opportunity to be a legal state with social responsibility. I think we should take that responsibility, and that is in the picture that the newspaper essay that has been referred to here has come. I believe that taking responsibility, because we do not know the future, by legislating the right to necessary health care is important and essential for the human rights that we are now taking in, and those that are there from before, to apply to everyone, for the sake of democracy and for the same reason that the Right believes we should establish the fundamental right to education. Then I can comfort the representative Tybring-Greed that it is fully possible in the future to go to the elections to privatize the school. This constitutional amendment does not stop anyone from doing so. But what the Constitutional Amendment does is to make sure there's someone there at the other end. If there's a built in a hundred years that only has private schools, there must be a guarantee that if they go bankrupt, there must be someone there at the other end to ensure that the children get education. Those who have to be there at the other end to ensure it, shall be us, the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2461	Earlier this week, I visited a school class in connection with the Constitutional Jubilee. Then I asked if there was anyone who knew what the Constitution really is for something. Then there was a girl who had read her lesson well, who said it's the most, the most important law we have, and it says about all of our, the most important rights. That's a simple and straightforward way of saying it, but it probably isn't quite accurate. First of all, there's a bit of a banal description of the basic law's position and function, but in addition, it's not quite right that all of the most important rights have been enshrined in the Constitution. Today, we will adopt some significant amendments to the Constitution. Some important fundamental rights are finally to be incorporated into the law. We're going to take a step in the right direction, and that's why this is a happy day. The very most important right, what is it? My answer is the right to life. That is why I am pleased that today there are many who will end up getting it into the Constitution, but I find it regrettable that the Christian People's Party's proposal to legislate the right to life from conception to natural death will not get the necessary majority. We are living in a time of enormous technological progress, and in the years and decades to come, we will see technological breakthroughs that we are not able to visualize today. These advances give us enormous opportunities, but they will also challenge us both in terms of value and ethics. Human dignity is not conditional on gender, ethnic origin, age, sexual orientation or functionality. I hope there's not a controversial statement in this room. It should not, in my opinion, be controversial to say that unborn life should not be sorted out by characteristics. But in the fight against sorting unborn life, the Christian People's Party is unfortunately quite alone. I believe that we need a foundation on which we can stand safe when we face different opportunities and ethical challenges and dilemmas in the future, and I wish that this foundation could be a constitutional right to life from conception to natural death.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2477	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2480	The representative Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen from the Right had a bold, warm defense for Right's practice in health matters, giving some groups of people ever more rights through the law. At the same time, the Right is added to a note on page 13 of the setting, where it says: «In the public sector, doubts are raised as to whether this really produces satisfactory results in the form of more and better services.» The representative Wilhelmsen Trøen then tried to explain why the Right is against § 111 of the Constitution: «Unlikely, the national authorities shall promote the health of the population and ensure the right to the necessary health care.» In my opinion, this is a very special argument when this is seen in the context. The only rational, logical explanation is that right-wing votes against § 111 because of the wording ‘enhancing the health of the population’. This does not promise good for the Community’s preventive public health work in the future. In other ways, I cannot see the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2495	I just want to point out to the previous speaker that we spend 100 billion dollars. NOK in order to run our health business. What made me take the floor was the following unexplained recordings, among others. by the representative of Gruvan: it is not right that the family review itself is difficult to imagine in the Constitution. What's the problem is that the family review that's standing there is weaker than the one in the EMK, and it doesn't have legal effects either. This is not to mention the fact that you have done a blow to your family. Another problem is that one is also unable to define more precisely, at least for legal use, what one means by ‘family’. That was also my objection to the proposal. Otherwise, I think we in many ways share the view that the family is the basic unit of society. Then to Kolberg. It is not going to be much more than that in order to produce a mole mood with the representative, Mr Kolberg, but I can say that, of course, we are taking responsibility for the proposals we have, and for the votes we support the various proposals. I'm assuming that all of the games do. But what has been a little tiring in this debate is that some, perhaps especially represented by the representative of Kolberg, have taken on a kind of moral right of punishment. I think it would be better to use the time to address the challenges that could perhaps be overcome by dialogue, because that is very exciting in what we do not agree on, namely the legal policy in Norway. In fact, I look forward to the debate we have had today, which is really a very exciting legal debate, being carried on, so that we can become more clear and conscious of the quality of law in our ordinary work. Otherwise, I would say that today's inventory also has to be that the representative Jette Christensen no longer says that opponents of opinion go on the Storting every day to lay plans for the future, but that we actually trust good intentions on behalf of the people we serve, in every way we do. If the debate can sound like that, it's not against me. Otherwise, the representative of Kolberg will be so far out of educational reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2506	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2509	Rule of the people gives impetus to the will of the majority, and human rights set limits, fences or walls for a majority on wrong roads. So there has to be a choice between making sure you can rock some of the human rights. Therefore, there is special protection when they are inserted into our constitution. That's the whole point. What society achieves by paying this price, that is, by law, is a development with greater security and protection for the individual and minority, and that must be important. And because restrictions on the government's authority are the very meaning of human rights – the core is to bind the policy as far as these rights reach – it cannot be said that both human rights and the legalisation of the same issues are being violated. If you want human rights, you follow them, you follow them, you follow them, you follow them, you follow them, you follow them, you follow them, you follow them, you follow them, you follow them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2516	First of all, I have been allowed to follow this debate throughout the day, and I think there have been a lot of good posts. The debate also shows that there is a great deal of commitment around our Constitution, and it should be. Our basic law is the guiding principle for, among other things. the activities we have to carry out in this room. But there have also been some uncertainties. The debate can almost be seen in such a way that you try to attribute other opinions that you actually don't have, that you also try to interpret yourself out of a number of decisions because you think that the other one says is something different than what we actually have to decide on. In this context, I would like to refer to the debate related to the concept of ‘family’, because it may seem that some are trying to attribute the concept of ‘family’ to something other than what we are actually going to adopt today. For the family concept that we are to decide on, is not what the Progress Party has said, the Christian People's Party has said, the Labour Party has said or the Left has said. The family concept that we are considering today is what is in the setting. That's the document we have to deal with, that's the term and the interpretation we put into it. It's not that we can put our own thoughts into it, because here it's done a thorough job, and that's what we're going to decide. For the Advancement Party, the family is important. I'm sure it's for most people, if not everyone sitting in this room. That is why we believe that time is ripe. We have said that we want to go into parts of it, within Section 103, as the right to establish a family, and we then vote in favour of proposal No. 1 in this connection. The Constitution is the general and governing principle for many of us. I'm basically very constitutional conservative. What we're changing today, we can change, but to go even further than what it's added up to, at least don't want to sign because much of this, especially in terms of economic, social and cultural rights, is to be covered by laws other than the Constitution itself. The Constitution is for me a document, a law, that I don't want us to put too many details into, but the document that is here today, and what can be obtained for a majority, is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2529	Carsten Smith has been drawn into the debate by Michael Tetzschner, and I tried to remember what Carsten Smith said in the meeting with us. But in order not to quote him wrong, I was able to find out his script. He refers to Carl I. Hagen, who took a dissertation when it came to this with economic and social rights, because according to Carl I. Hagen, it could form a basis for a very precious welfare state that can impose high taxes and taxes. Carsten Smith answered this: «In part, we have a bit of experience. It was before the Law on Human Rights the opposition of the Public Prosecutor to the incorporation of the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, having regard to the corresponding view that the Convention as a law would involve an excessive transfer to the courts of the management of resource use. In any case, in the fifteen years that the Convention has acted as a law, such forecasts have to a very small extent been realised. Secondly, I point out that this Convention was one of the two main conventions developed by the United Nations to implement the World Declaration. I believe that Norway – of all countries – should be able to give some of the welfare country’s rights the highest rank by the Constitution. In the World Declaration itself, economic, social and cultural rights form an essential part of its content. Degrading these to a B-layer would be a breach of the vision of the coherence and universality of the rights.’ So what he's saying is that he wants this in, he's arguing for -- not the way Michael Tetzschner used him in part, if I understood it correctly. In addition, I want to bring forward the amazing effort that Carsten Smith has been making for decades for the rights of his fellowman. That you use Carsten Smith not to agree to any rights, I think it's very inappropriate. I refer to what I said in previous articles, that I do not understand the relationship between four of the Right Representatives less than two months ago writing in a position in this big thing that Samer is looking at as an indigenous person – and now you don't want to have this in the Constitution anyway. I do not see this, and I have not seen that I have received an answer to this either. That's why I've used the opportunity to first show that Carsten Smith wanted the ESC regulations into the Constitution. Furthermore, he has also wanted to decide that Samer is a native. I believe that the debate in this room should have some effect – not that they have written in the setting and made up in the back room. It has to stand out anyway. You have to be allowed to change your mind. And it has to be allowed, after hearing the debate, to say that we see the point, and perhaps we are now going to vote for the provision to include that Samer is a native, in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2547	I am the last recorded, so those sitting in the office can start going, because I'm not going to add up and provoke anyone to a new debate. I intend to have a reflection that I hope the Control Committee can take with me in the further work. I was on the control committee in the last period and I was involved in promoting a number of these proposals. Some of the point of making proposals during one major period and adopting them in another is that the people should know in elections which representatives they are going to vote on in order to get in touch with different issues. If I had been an up-and-coming citizen who followed the debate in the previous period, I would have thought that if I were to have the ESC in the Constitution, I would not have voted for the Workers' Party, but I would have voted for the Right. Based on the debates held in the United Kingdom in the previous period, it is clear to draw a conclusion from the role of Per-Kristian Foss and the role of Martin Kolberg. Now it turns out that those roles have changed. Now the Workers' Party is the foremost, warm one, and I think there are a great many posts they've held about the ESC's important part of human rights – while the Right has turned around. Then I ask, is our point of having a choice between promotion and voting really right then, when people could have chosen from what case you have gone to, and what position did you have when things were promoted in Stortinget – when it doesn't reflect and we get a total change? I would like the Committee of Inquiry to take this into account in the further work, also in relation to the promotion of the next period. At least as far as the big, important and decisive issues are concerned, people, if the point is to be a period between promotion and voting, must also have the opportunity to know what the parties mean over time, in order to know what they will vote on in elections in order to get the result they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2560	I have another errand too. Now I see that someone from the Progress Party is in the hall. In the past, it was only those of the Control Committee – and as far as that is concerned. Now I see that the representative Ulf Leirstein is among us. He is one of the four I have tried to call earlier, get up from the office to take the floor and try to explain to me, because I don't understand this. The representative, Leirstein, is one of the four I mentioned, in addition to Per Sandberg, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Åse Michaelsen, who has been the strongest speakers in the Stortinget in order to have the strongest possible legislation against those who commit sexual assault. They have undertaken to be a law-and-order party. Now there is a provision that we can vote for in the Constitution, which says something about the state taking measures to ensure that children are protected against just sexual abuse. Then I don't get this to vote. Why should the Progress Party vote against this – why should you vote against this? I need an explanation. I didn't get that. I believe that when you have to have such an important provision and you don't want to vote for it, you should at least be able to give a good explanation about it. The second, which I have not received an answer to either, is that when the Minister of Justice was not the Minister of Justice, but was a representative here in the United Kingdom, he agreed to propose that the freedom of expression clause should explicitly mention religion. The Group of the Progressive Party has now said that they are going to vote against what their own Minister of Justice agreed to promote as a magnificence representative. With what justification? We have not received that either. It should, of course, be possible to provide a justification. I may not be coming up again, but I may be returning. But if I don't return, at least I want to say that...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2573	...we'll probably live with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2576	Yes. We often get the impression that everyone is following what's going on in here, but I've been getting more and more the impression that that's not the way reality is. But some people may come along, and they may be left with the impression that we're not adopting anything, and that we let this moment go away. [[Laughter]] The debate may have a bit of an impact on it. So we have to remember that we're also doing something amazing today. Although we would like to go the extra meters, both in the Left and in the other parties, which are too few more regulations, it is a great deal that will be adopted – it is the right to life or many of the civil and political rights. Just that Norway adopts and will be the nation that will be among the few who have the rights of a child under law in the way we do, where the best of the child is expressed, is something we can really be proud of, both as a magnification and as a nation. We have to bring that with us, so it doesn't get the impression that we missed the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2586	It's going to be short. It was to the two left-wing representatives who were stunned that it was possible that a proposal could be delivered for one period, and then representatives from that party could have a different opinion in the period after. With regard to the concept of Sámi rights in the Constitution, it is actually that from the time it was promoted in the last period, there has been a debate in my country. What concept they use of those rights is a frequent debate in Finnmark. I find it a little strange that the representative Raja believes that if you agree with him, you should not be able to change your mind if you think the opposite is the case. It also surprises me that the representative, Mrs Grande, believes that such a proposal should not be promoted, debated, and then ends up with a different conclusion from the one drawn in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2597	First of all, I want to complain that the representative Raja does not understand the Stortinget, but it is not, in fact, the Stortinget’s problem – that is the representative’s problem. I do not know whether the representative is aware that there has been an ongoing debate in Finnmark on Sami rights – the indigenous debate – for more than 25 years. The studies that have been carried out are, in fact, of such a nature that the large proportion of the population in Finnmark have been against the various proposals that have been trodden down over their heads each time. Regardless of whether you refer to Carsten Smith or Professor Fleischer, there are many different perceptions, and when you talk about the fact that a constitution should also in itself bring the population together, it is quick that in this situation you can decide – if you follow the Raja proposal – that you actually split the population instead of collecting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2606	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2612	We are then ready to go to voting. It's going to be an extensive and quite long voting, so I hope we keep calm and the concentration around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2620	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 7, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 1 by Michael Tetzschner, on behalf of the Right and the Green Group in the European Parliament 3, by Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament 6, by Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament. 5, by Per Olaf Lundtigen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 4, by Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 2, from Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2647	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: «We Current Section 92 is moved to new Subpart F and is given a new paragraph number. Paragraph 110(c) is currently being deleted. Section 92 is replaced by the following: Option 4 B [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2683	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘XIII
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2722	Alternatively, between the Committee's configuration of A and N and proposal No. 3, from the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, which reads: ‘Section 16 of Section 16 is deleted. The current section 99 is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2758	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 102 of XVII is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2793	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 102 of XVII is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2830	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section XVIII § 104 is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2872	It is promoted by the Labour Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens. Consequently, it is reasonable to assume that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2885	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘XX
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e2925	It is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party that are behind the vote. It is therefore assumed that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3310	Twelve proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 7, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party, the Left and the Environment Party The Green proposal No. 9, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 1, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 5, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right and Left proposal No. 12, by Martin Kolberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Green Group in the European Parliament 6, by Martin Kolberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 10, by Hans Fredrik Groevan on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Environment Party The Green proposal No. 2, by Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Green Party on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament. 4, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 3, by Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 8 and 11, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Current Section 107 moves to new Subpart F and receives a new paragraph number.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3378	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Current Section 107 moves to new Subpart F and receives a new paragraph number.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3408	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Current Section 107 moves to new Subpart F and receives a new paragraph number.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3473	It is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party which is behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3507	It is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party that are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3520	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «III Current Section 108 is moved to new Subpart F and is given a new paragraph number. The current Section 110a becomes Section 108 of the new Chapter E and is replaced by the following: Option 2B [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. We vote by roll call and start with representative no. 8 from Rogaland County, Tina Bru. Those who vote in favour of the proposal answer yes and those who vote against the proposal answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3586	It is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party that are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3599	Following the rejection of the Committee's position on D, proposal No. 5, from the Right and the Left, which is an alternative to D. The proposal reads as follows: «IV Current Section 109 is moved to new Chapter F and is given a new paragraph number.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3646	There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which is behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3659	So let's start with a couple of minority proposals, and we'll start with proposal number. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘VI
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3685	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, which reads: ‘VI
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3714	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Green Party, which reads: ‘VI
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3759	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party, which reads: «VII Current Section 111 is moved to new Subpart F and is given a new paragraph number.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3792	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Green Party, which reads: «VII Current Section 111 is moved to new Subpart F and is given a new paragraph number.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3835	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on G and proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, which reads: «VII Current Section 111 is moved to new Subpart F and is given a new paragraph number.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3875	Thus, neither the suspension nor the proposal received a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3909	The whole committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, is behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3930	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on I and proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party and the Green Party, which reads: ‘X
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3967	Thus, neither the suspension nor the proposal received a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3981	This is a proxy for Stortinget to edit, if necessary, following the changes made to the Constitution today. However, this authorisation was adopted in the previous case, so that J in this setting lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e3991	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's: proposal No 1, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4050	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on III and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, which reads: ‘Document 12:16 [[protection of life from conception to death]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4091	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right, which reads: ‘Document 12:32 [[right to life and prohibition of capital punishment, torture and slavery]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4140	It's going to wrestle over you. The right has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4154	It shall be counted against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4167	During the debate, Helge Thorheim has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4194	It is the Labour Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party that are behind the vote. We vote by roll call and start with representative no. 6 for Eastfold County, Stein Erik Lauvås. The voters will reply yes. The votes against the configuration answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4219	We shall then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:34 [[right to establish a family, etc.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4275	When both options presented are not accepted in the previous votes, it follows that the second part of the vote is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4302	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party are behind the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4334	The Labour Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party are behind the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-13.ana.ud1674e4486	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
