ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e22	Representatives Ingebjørg Godskesen, Lise Christoffersen, Morten Wold, Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, Helge André Njåstad, Tore Hagebakken, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Kristian Norheim, Kent Gudmundsen, Frank J. Jensen, Snorre Serigstad Valen, Ingerd Schou and Stein Erik Lauvås, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called for the alternates, for the Nord-Trøndelag counties of Jorid Holstad Nordmelan and for the South-Trøndelag counties of Audun Otterstad, have taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Eirin Sund from 23 April until further notice. At the request of the President, a unanimous decision was taken: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Øystein Hansen, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e91	Øystein Hansen is present and will take the seat. From the Workers' Group there is an application to amend the convening of the meeting of the alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Audun Otterstad, to apply from 23 April to 20 June, under the granted leave of the representative Karianne Tung. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e109	On Wednesday 16 April, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Minister of State Jan Tore Sanner, Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende and the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from the representative Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e116	Before Easter, it was known that there was a green light for starting a Muslim elementary school in Oslo. The working party both in Oslo and in Stortinget is very sceptical about this, partly because the environment behind the school has tried to run school before, with very poor results, but also because we fear a development where more and more children are sorted in different schools according to religious background. It damages the possibility of a good integration policy and a good school policy. In the last spontaneous morning before Easter, Erna Solberg and Right went a long way in defending the approval. Immediately afterwards, the Swedish Minister of Knowledge wrote a text message to the school agency in Oslo, warning him not to file an appeal. There he writes: "Then you make this a political matter, and you know we can't take the complaint to heart. It will only prolong a bad case for us." Now I am going to be the last to criticize the use of SMS in the administration. It can be an effective form of communication. [[Laughter]] However, I record that Røe Isaksen, as a result of his preliminary conclusion, has declared himself incapacitated in the handling of the complaint. My question is therefore about the last part of Røe Isaksen’s answer: ‘It will only prolong a bad case for us.’ I agree that this is a bad case, because a development where the kids are sorted into schools according to religious background creates a poorer society with less inclusion, and it creates poorer schools with less diversity. It would be interesting to hear the Red Isaac explain why he also believes that this is a bad case. Now that he has been exempted from the review of the case, he is free to perform his role as Minister of Knowledge and can express his opinion in a very important political matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e128	First of all, I do not think I should go into the details of an SMS exchange that was obviously a bad assessment by my side. But I can say a little general about the private school law, also the religious schools, because I think it's a starting point in today's law that you have the opportunity to set up private schools on a religious basis. Discrimination on the basis of what religious basis it is does not give the law any opening for, and of course the government cannot do that either. In all cases, then, there are a number of quality criteria and other criteria on which to assess whether a private school should be allowed to start. I must also be allowed not to just return the question, but to say that I think it is worth travelling as a problem that the private school law we have today is the private school law we have had since the red-green government changed Kristin Clement's private school law, and I am familiar with this so-called private school settlement, which took place here on Stortinget, where the opposition parties – the current opposition parties – thus the red-green government joined the Christian People's Party to create a new private school law. The private school law has been a large majority for the Stortinget – it has been a majority for it together with the Christian People's Party. There's also been a majority on the Stortinget, I'm familiar with all the parties, because you want an opportunity to start religious private schools. You have to start wondering what has happened, since the Workers' Party is all of a sudden now wondering whether the private school law they've been running for eight years, which they have a binding settlement with the Christian People's Party, is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e135	I find that the Council of State did not exactly use the opportunity to clarify why this was a bad case. However, I also note that Oslo, across the clear Council of State, has appealed the case. The City Council, led by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, but also with the warm support of a whole city government, I think, including the Workers' Party, have complained about the approval for government, both because you are concerned about the quality of the school, and because you are concerned about an enhanced development where you sort the students. Now the government has announced, at the latest in the proposition just before Easter, that it is to be introduced. ‘right of authorisation for applicants meeting the content and quality requirements, unless this has a negative impact on public school provision after an overall assessment’. In other words, the possibility of different religious or ethnic schools should be extended. We know that Drammen is talking about a Turkish school, and Somali parents send kids to Somalia. There may be a desire for more and more schools of that type, and my question to the Council of State is: When this is the reality, does one not see the need to stop the path that the government is warning with an extended right to start private schools – with state aid, well to mark?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e145	The first thing, and that's that I think we have to recognise as a society that there may be some integration dilemmas in starting religious schools. I am a strong supporter of having a strong public school, where people can meet, and where they are going, most of the children in Norway. But then there has been agreement in this room, and the red-green parties have also been involved, that there should be a safety valve also in a liberal democracy, and that the safety valve should mean that for some parents, for some environments, one should have an opportunity to set up a private school, and then one should receive state support, so that one should not get a private school system where the wallet decides, and where only the richest can afford to go to private school, but it should be for everyone. Then there is a balance, of course, integration versus the other. And then it's important to say that when today's private school law gives a right to approval, it gives at least a right to fill given criteria, and that right we propose to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e150	There will be follow-up questions – first Christian Thinning Bjørnø.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e153	State councils have stated that a change to the private school law would involve a more stringent practice than the old law on free schooling of the Right. The 2003 Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rights of Presi­dency of Presi­dents for Presi­dents and Presi­dents of Presi­dents and Presi­dents. The right of authorisation shall apply if the establishment will not have a negative impact on the host municipality. I Prop. 75 L for 2013–2014, Changes in private school law, which were sent from the State Council to Stortinget just before Easter, says in a quote: ‘Schools which fulfil the conditions shall be entitled to be approved, unless an overall assessment indicates that approval will have a negative impact on the public school offer.’ Can the Council of State explain to me why one sentence provides a basis for more stringent practices than the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e165	There's two things we're talking about. One is the dispensation provision now under consideration in Stortinget. It's, as I've stressed several times, a very narrow dispensation rule. It does not automatically grant an authorisation right, and the purpose of it is to gain experience, inter alia. on which actors and which schools will apply when a new private school law comes. These include: Based on the fact that we think it is strange that in today’s Norway you have the opportunity to start a private high-school sports gym, but if you want to start a real-school gym or a plumbing gym or a food and restaurant school, you don’t get a chance to do so. The leading point here – the crucial point – is the difference between ‘negative consequences’ and ‘substantial negative consequences’. In the government platform, there is an intensification by not saying ‘significantly negative consequences’, but ‘negative consequences’. There is something that the government will come back to Stortinget with when we present proposals for new private school law, free school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e172	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e175	The Muslim school in Oslo has been approved on the basis of today's private school law, such as: The working party and the Christian People's Party are behind it. The law emphasises the right of parents to choose a type of school for their children other than that offered by the public. on the basis of religion. Then I record that Trond Giske is now about to leave this principle, and I want to commend the Minister of Knowledge on following a principleal approach on this issue. But then I share Trond Giske's and the Workers' Party's concern that we will have a flowering of many new private schools in Norway in the future. What I'm asking is what kind of brake council wants to enter a new private school law when purpose management is removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e183	There are many possibilities for what kind of ‘brake’ the representative calls it, which you can put in. I have already mentioned one, and that is the difference between ‘substantially negative’ and ‘negative’. I said earlier, also in this Chamber, that there are other things you can look at. But I think it's neatest that we wait to say what a new private school law is going to be like, until we actually put the private school law forward. Then I very much agree with the point the representative has, that it is terribly difficult to know what the Labour Party's private school policy is at the moment. The Workers' Party has an agreement with the Christian People's Party, which is today's private school law, which opens up religious schools. In a recent debate, the representative Marianne Aasen said that the Workers' Party was not a stranger to see if one could have several types of purpose in today's private school law, i.e. a type of liberalisation of the law, while the representative Giske is talking about a tightening of the law, i.e. a breach of the agreement with the Christian People's Party. But the government can't clean it up, it has to clean up the opposition itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e190	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e193	As we have heard, today's private school law gives limited access to starting private schools with state subsidies. For the Centre Party, it is important to protect parental rights while maintaining school as a central common arena. Now we have heard that in Oslo, the City Council has not advised approval of an application for Muslim school, not on the basis on which the school is to be run, but on the basis of concerns about the consequences it will have for the public school if the school starts and the school has to cease its operation. Then it's the municipality that's left with the responsibility to give the students a place to school. If one approves schools and then finishes them, it could be a demanding task for the municipalities, but also for the county municipalities. For example, an application in Lillehammer City could have a significant impact on the surrounding country far outside Lillehammer. I wonder to what extent the Council of State believes that consideration should be given to other schooling in the municipalities, but also in the county municipalities, when approving private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e202	The specific matter in Oslo I have expressed my support, so I cannot comment on it. But I can say something about the other questions that the representative raises. It's a real problem that if the private school has to go down during the school year, it's the public school that has to take the students in. But there are two important things that we need to take care of that is in today's private school law. One is thorough preliminary assessments, that you check that here are the serious actors, serious environments, who have a real chance of running the schools they're actually applying for. The second thing is that municipalities and county councils are hearing bodies, and part of the negative impact that they can point to is, for example, the fact that they are hearing bodies. that it has major consequences for their own schooling. For example, it will. This means — in thoughtful examples — that if there are very significant consequences, perhaps that a school needs to be laid down or something like that, there will be a serious reason why the school might not be approved to start up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e209	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e212	Some of the first minister did when he joined was to impose an emergency law, where the minister gets the opportunity to dispensate from the requirements of the private school law. History we know: All the schools that Kristin Klemet approved after the 2005 big shot, which have started, have been taken for fraud. In 2012, the Akademiet schools and Bergen Private Gymnas were taken for fraud of 12.7 million. kr, and there are probably more things under the cushion. When the Minister wants to rush through several private schools, several commercial actors, already before the summer, and we are going to deal with a new case over the New Year, has the Minister made any thoughts about how to prevent this from leading to illegal profits? And does he have any thoughts about what types of organization of control this...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e217	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e220	I disagree a little with one of the premises for the question, and that is that we have proposed urgent action on private school applications. We have not proposed that. If the Stortinge adopts the derogation scheme that we have proposed until the new private school law comes into force, the procedure will be as thorough and as accurate as in all other matters, i.e. as in today's law, which is the red-green private school law. So here it's not about cutting any turns or hasty treatment in any way. I also disagree with the very colorful description that everyone is taken for cheating. I don't think that's right. Here it is also possible that there are complaints. But in general, it is important to say that this is the way to follow the legislation, and if you do not follow the legislation, there will be penalties. The fact that you have good controls is something that this government is concerned about and will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e227	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e230	The need for special school education continues to grow, and we are using more and more resources to provide special education to the older students. Today, the NRK tells of parents who hire private companies to provide special education to the children, because it takes too much time before they get the help they need at school. On the other hand, the Education Association is critical that much of the special education provided at school is provided by unskilled assistants. It is important that all those in need of special education receive the help they need as soon as the need arises. At the same time, however, it must be a goal that more people get satisfactory learning outcomes from ordinary school education. Then early effort is a keyword. But it is important that this term is filled with concrete content. A possible early effort may be to increase the teacher's density in primary school and to have more teachers inside the classroom at the same time as the smallest children. This will make it easier to provide well-adapted education both for the weakest students and for the strongest students. In Sweden, the government has now added 2 billion. kr on the table to do just that in the three lowest class steps, and at the same time set a new goal for all students to learn to read and understand simple texts before the end of the first class. My question is whether the Minister of Knowledge is inspired by his Swedish colleague, and whether the government will consider measures to increase the teacher's density and have more teachers inside the classroom of the smallest children in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e237	It's not that often I get questions about whether I want to be inspired by Sweden in school policy; I think it's actually the first time. Teacher density is also important, just to say that, and we're going to need more teachers, just because the kid's coals are getting bigger. Then we're going to need more teachers, if not fewer teachers per student. But the great effort of this government has not been to increase the teacher's density. It's not that teacher's density can have no effect on learning. It's obvious. Most people who have been in a classroom realize that if you have a little more teachers, it might help, but if you just uncritically put in more teachers without changing the teaching system and adapting it more to the individual student, you often get little out of it, and that's a bit of the problem. But the government has, among other things, kept the 600 additional teaching positions that came under the previous government and which would contribute to higher teacher density, as a contribution to this. Then I believe the representative raises a very important question about special education. It is quite right that if you look at the curve in Norway, our special education comes very heavy, very late, and not only that, but as a result of a change that was made some years ago, it is also more formalized and opened so that so-called unskilled, non-qualified, can conduct special education. I fully agree with the representative that it is an objective that special education should be introduced in the past, and it is also an objective that we should be able to meet the different needs of the students in the classroom as far as possible. It is worth mentioning that there are several municipalities in Norway that have taken very active action, as it is called, to bring down special education and instead use these resources inside the classroom, where all the students are.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e249	I would like to thank you for your answer. As far as school is concerned, that's one of the areas where we can actually enjoy beating the Swedes. So what the state council should be inspired by is what Sweden is now doing to improve quality. We see the challenges they face in Sweden, and we have many of the same challenges in Norway, and I think that many of the same solutions can also work well in Norwegian school. In the last ten years, the need for special education has increased. At the same time, group sizes in schools have also increased. I believe that we need to be able to get more resources from special education to regular education, and reducing the size of the group is an important tool. I wonder if the Council of State thinks there might be any connection here. Does the Council of State think it is positive that the group size in school has increased, or is it negative? And if he thinks that this is negative, what will the government do in that case to reverse that process?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e258	I fully agree that the goal should be both to bring down the special education and to get more of that education in the classroom. If you get what many municipalities have done, you will also release resources, for example. to get more teachers into the classroom. So it's a goal. At the same time, it could help to strengthen special education early for those who actually need it. So I just have to repeat that although it's a good intention to have a big effort on teacher density, we've chosen to give priority to other things first. It's because we mean to have good research evidence to say that what's most important for students to learn more – and that's what's the goal – is that you have good teachers, teachers who get professional replenishment, close team construction, that's cooperation, good professional fellowship at school, and that you have clear learning goals. In real science, among other things, we see that we need an extra boost, because that's where we're depending on a lot of countries we like to compare with. That's the lines we're going to continue to work for in future budgets as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e265	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e268	Being a municipal politician or a school teacher challenges us. We see kids who have special needs, and we want to solve it. There are many examples in School-Norway of engaged teachers who have made projects to help those who are struggling the most, for example. by resolving the read code. One of the projects is SOL, a systematic observation of reading, which is currently used by 130,000 students in school in Norway. Then I and the Christian People's Party wonder what the Council of State will do to allow more students to participate in such good projects, which have grown from below, and which work – and actually use them more than in a few schools in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e275	I believe that the commitment to basic skills, reading, writing and billing, which came with the knowledge promise of Kristin Clemet and Bondevik II government, was absolutely crucial and very important. It can also be seen that the reading effort in Norwegian school has most likely been successful. The reading results in Norwegian school were coming down, now they have gone up. If you look at international studies, they've unfortunately stabilized a little bit above average, so that's not good enough, but we have a positive development, and that's good. Then I believe that in addition to the state instruments, such as continuing training, the National Centre for Reading and Reading Research and several other centres that are going to drive and motivate the schools to work with, for example. reading, is the most important thing we can do, demanding the municipalities as good school owners. I believe that one of the most important things to get a good school locally is that you have active and engaged local school owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e282	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e285	While some areas of school policy create a great deal of controversy, such as the previous issue of private schools, this is an area in which the government will have broad support in the Stortinge if one wants to continue and reinforce the efforts that have been made early. In our time in government, we presented our own forecast of early efforts, with a number of measures that we now see working. It's right that, for example, the number of bad readers in the 5th class has fallen sharply. School is getting better, and we're getting better results. Increased teacher density is one of the tools, and enhanced and eaten teacher training. Good municipal economy is not least important, and good school management. From the Labour Party's side, we thought in the election campaign that it was important to go a step further, put in offensive efforts early, such as. finders do, almost give young people a read, write and calculate guarantee, where resources from 1 to 4 are used massively. class so that you get everyone up to a basic good level. I am absolutely convinced of these resources that when students come to high school, they will be saved. And it's true as the Council of State describes, that we use more and more special education as the students get older and it's hard to help them. We have to turn that effort in against the youngest students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e292	Now a new government has come, so now we have the chance to implement part of what the Right Party and the Advance Party have talked about in opposition. And instead of driving polemics against warranty concepts and such, I think the most crucial question to ask is: Who has the obligation to comply with this guarantee? If you interpret the Workers' Party to that point that we must make clearer demands on the school owner – from the state, we must follow up, but also clear demands on the school owner – we must also make visible and show which municipalities and which schools achieve their goal. It's not because we're going to hang someone out, but simply because we're going to make the simple fact that if you have a school where 20-25 pst. by the six-year-olds who begin there, do not learn to read and write, there is something that should worry everyone in this room – and something that also concerns the Workers' Party. So having clarity, visibility and long-termity and also following up the municipalities that are not doing their job is something this government is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e297	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e300	I hear the council is concerned that the municipalities are going to be good school owners. We've had some examples lately, for example. Sogn and Fjordane counties, which have many municipalities with very many good school owners. In my own home country, Dovre has been promoted as such a good school owner. So they've halved the use of special classes in the last few years, and they've done it, among other things. by introducing two first- and second-class teachers as well as in the upper-level basic subjects. They also have a maximum limit of 12 to 15 students in the context of more practical activities. I wonder if the council will give the municipalities the financial opportunity to be good school owners and do as their sister party in Sweden, where Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt has said that each teacher will have more time for each student, and the students will notice that they will have more time with their teacher, and that hopefully this will mean a calmer learning situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e309	At least the government – I do not control the municipal budget – will ensure that we have a good municipal economy. I expect that it is also important for municipalities to be good school owners, although it is important to say that the local economy is not always such that any local government believes they have been given enough, is no excuse not to be a good school owner and not to be a good school owner. If it was so simple that we could just spend more money at school and then get better results again, Norway would already be at the top of the world. We spend more money per student than almost any other country in the world, so we don't have equivalent results. So I mean we're going to be inspired by Dovre. I believe that we need a critical review of the use of special education in Norway. I believe that Dovre is a very good example of a municipality that has done something smart. It has gone through critically and thought about how to bring down special education. But then we have to reinforce the follow-up of the individual in the classroom at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e317	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e320	There is a broad consensus that we want to reduce the use of special education and that we want to bet on early action. But regardless of that, there is a great need for specialist educators out in the municipalities. So I want to ask the council how he sees himself that he can help to ensure that these special pedagogues, who are currently out in the municipalities, can spend the most of their time in classrooms, along with the students, instead of spending valuable time on reports and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e325	I am always concerned that time should be spent on what is important, and not on unnecessary reporting and bureaucracy. There is probably a problem in the whole public sector — perhaps in parts of the private sector too — that too much time goes away to unnecessary reporting, measurement that does not intend to improve or provide valuable information. I know that the Minister of State is also very concerned about that. It is precisely, under the previous government, a major review and major reorganization of Statped, which is the state's instrument for those students who need extra follow-up. We have continued this conversion, and the ambition is that it should lead to the representative asking for more time per student, and that Statped should become a clearer driver as well – that one should not just wait for the municipalities to ask for help. Then we'll put a foot in the ground in a few years and see if it actually worked-- and if not, we'll have to go back and do something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e332	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e335	After Easter we have been able to read that the Minister of Knowledge is warning ‘a large-scale review of today’s profession. The aim is to get more students to take a professional course and to implement several of them’. The party very much agrees that it is important to review the very structure of supply in the individual professions. In particular, we have arranged for the sharing of building and civil engineering techniques, and also TIP recruits more than 60 apprenticeships. This is why last year the Stortinget decided to review the different programmes. What worries me is that it is manufactured as if the professions are to be reviewed, shaken and evaluated again. A broad research-based evaluation of the position of professionals following the introduction of the Knowledge Lift was presented before the launch of the Storing Communication. I'm afraid of, among other things, The Council of State is concerned and unclear about the way in which we talk about the professions. It seems to have caused most people a kind of collective welding flash that has made many people not really realize that the Storting has already made the biggest changes in the professions since Reform 94. I just want to repeat briefly some of what was adopted last year on the proposal of the red-green government. Everyone with a degree letter is now entitled to study specialisation. Several TAF races shall be offered. The Community shall be professionally trained. The exchange model with the opportunity to learn from the first year shall be available. Several alternative training courses should be provided in enterprises, so we need to review the supply structure in cooperation with the social partners. Vocational training has already been widely adopted. So now we're going to have some implementation. My question is: Can the Council of States confirm – and clarify – that there is a review of the supply structure to be made now? And can the State Council confirm that the secondary schools now have financial autonomy to implement the decisions taken by the Stortinget last summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e348	I can confirm that we will follow up on what the Storting has decided. It is also very well in line with – it also shows the comments and support for the proposals – that both the Progress Party and the Right have thought in the past. And so I think it's natural that when there's a new government, it's also important to show that we're busy implementing policies. And then I have no problem saying that this big message was presented under Kristin Halvorsen, and that it got a lot of excitement in Stortinget. That's what we're going to assume. Then I fully agree that all of these things that the representative mentioned, among other things. right to build, we funded in the 2014 budget. We're going to have a more practical alternative race for those who want it. We're going to have a review of the study structure, as the Stortinget has decided, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e357	Thanks for the answer. I think it is very good that the Council of State admits that here it is a follow-up of what the Stortinget has already done. I think it's incredibly important that we get it, so most people realize that now it's actually great opportunities in the professional fields to get the flexibility that we've wanted, and that the schools have also wanted for many years. So there's something about it that we know that we're taking a lot of things into high school. That means we have to take action in high school. A number of measures have also been taken in the past by the red-green government. We have introduced electoral discipline, which we have heard a lot about. Then there's another subject that we've heard a little bit less about, and it's called employment. It can now be offered by all schools. So it's a mini-professional. It's just an offer we have there, but we don't have a mandatory directive that the schools should be able to offer it. I wonder if the Council of State would like to take initiatives towards the schools and say that they should have a mandatory offer on the subject of working life in high school, so that students also get a taste in the professions before they actually choose the one they want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e364	We have also chosen to continue youth action, among other things, although I have to admit that there are questions about some of the priorities of the previous government, precisely because much of the follow-up comes very late in the course, while some of the problem when you see that the drop-off is high in higher education, of course, is that many people leave primary school and lack very basic skills. If you have almost physical characteristics in mathematics, the functional illiteracy, as it is often called – i.e. you have problems with basic understanding of the content of a newspaper or writing a job application – is going to cause problems in higher education. In the last six months of high school, entering school won't necessarily solve it. So, work experience has been given very shared assessments. It has probably been a subject that has worked very well in some places, elsewhere not so well. The schools may continue to do so, but I do not intend to make it a compulsory subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e371	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e374	My supplementary question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Although the professional responsibility for primary and secondary education lies with the Ministry of Knowledge, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation must ensure that municipalities and county councils have sufficient framework to enable them to implement the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Last year, a number of measures were adopted in the field of vocational training in order to reduce secondary school dropouts. I understand that there is a cross-political consensus that the drop-out in higher education, especially in the professional disciplines, is one of the greatest challenges in the education process. As mentioned above, there is the possibility of a diploma, etc. The municipal bill will come in three weeks, and then we'll have to figure out if the framework is being met. I fear that a new investigation into a topic that has been so thoroughly addressed through the Storing Communication is just an excuse to camouflage that the measures will not be fully funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e381	Neither in this area do I share the fear of the Center Party. On the other hand, I have strong confidence that we will receive a good funding from both municipalities and counties in the coming year. I refer you to the municipal scheme for 2014, which was on the level of what the previous government had proposed. So neither did the Central Party's terror propaganda in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e387	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e390	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. It is about vocational training also taking place in the labour market – in close cooperation with the social partners. Unfortunately, developments in the labour market, especially in the construction sector, are heading towards several unprofessional actors. Subcontractors — including those who are serious and in public tenders — are a lot of use and do not take social responsibility in the same way as we are used to. The industry is experiencing tax fraud, serious breaches of the Working Environment Act and – incredibly – slave-like contracts. These enterprises are not particularly concerned with apprentices — unlike the serious part of working life. In total, this is likely to pose a greater threat to vocational training than the way we organise the school. It seems less attractive to work in this industry the more unprofessional it becomes. In addition, we get too few apprentices. Is this on the list of measures envisaged by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e399	The answer to that is yes. I fully agree with the description of reality, although I would warn you a little against saying that you are a subcontractor, in itself makes you unprofessional. I am absolutely sure that the representative did not think so either. But it is quite obvious that we see the contours of a working life where – not to an enormous extent, but to some extent – some actors come in that are unprofessional. It's a problem because they compete on unfair terms, it's a problem for the Norwegian working life model, and it's also quite right because these companies rarely or do not take in apprentices. I believe it is an objective, as the Minister of Labour has said on several occasions, that action is clear and clear on measures to combat unprofessional actors in the labour market. I think that's something we have to bring with us when we're going to try to get even more companies to take in apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e404	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e407	Good vocational training is important for business. Not least, it is important for the maritime industry. Now the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry have been visiting the maritime industry at Sunnmøre. There they addressed this with challenges related to education, not least vocational training. In the past, several Right-wing Representatives have called for their own notification of a strengthened maritime education. That also requires the industry itself. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is whether he wants to take the initiative for a big message about a strengthened maritime education – an overall review?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e414	There are many wise representatives among the Right People, so I tend to listen to them and listen carefully to what they have to say. The answer to that is that I can't promise it, but it's definitely an idea I'm not a stranger to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e421	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e424	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. After the pediatric agreement, we see that all of them, most of them kids go to kindergarten. It's a very positive development. Where I live, in the municipality of Stavanger, we have long had a goal that all 5-year-olds should go to kindergarten for at least one year before they start school. We have worked with that in a targeted way, and it was largely also successful. But in order for the kindergarten to have the function we want it to have, that there should be a safe place for the kids to be while mother and father are at work, and that there should be a place for learning, development and early effort, we need to have high quality in our kindergartens. The quality key is kindergartens with many qualified staff. We have a lot of good carers employed in our kindergartens today, and they're doing a really good job. But we lack very many employees with pediatric competence. In 2011, there were 40,000 employees without children’s professional competence in kindergartens, and in addition – a little depending on how we calculate – we lack at least 4,000 kindergarten teachers and even more if we are to have a slightly more ambitious recruitment standard. The government platform says that the government will raise the quality of kindergartens, strengthen continuing education and training so that more employees are given child-care skills, and train more educators – important ambitions, with which the Left fully agrees. My question to the Council of State is: What concrete measures will the government take to achieve these objectives, and when does the Council of State think that there will be any impact of government child care policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e437	There are two things you need to have in order to get an effect. One is money, and the money is in place in the 2014 budget, where we, together with, among others, The left has secured a budget where we spend more on quality and content in kindergarten than ever before. So that's how to follow up this. It doesn't keep giving money if it doesn't get any effect. Then I think that next to recruiting – that’s important, now recruiting numbers are coming soon for kindergarten teachers, and then you can see if there’s any good news there – we have to bet on those who have already chosen kindergarten as a job. What we intend to use in the budget agreement and in the government are, among other things, what we intend to use these quality resources for. to ensure that several of those who work in kindergarten and are unskilled can take a letter. They then receive a contribution from the country – help to do so. You also have to make sure that those who have a letter can take further training to kindergarten teachers so that you can obtain the standard of education, because I agree with the representative that it is the key when we talk about quality in kindergarten, that is absolutely crucial. Kindergarten is a huge investment in good performance in school and in children who make it even better than those who haven't gone to kindergarten. If we are to do this, the standard of education, i.e. enough kindergarten teachers, is absolutely crucial. It is also stated in the platform that we must have a standard of manpower, but it says 2020. In the 37 seconds I have left, I want to mention one last thing that I think is important, and that is to strengthen the rulers of kindergartens. We have to start thinking about kindergarten a little bit the same way we think about school. The principal of a school is also a pedagogical leader. A pedagogical director must also have overall responsibility for pedagogics. You have a lot of responsibility, you have to run the store, keep the accounts in order, take care of all these things, but also have an overall responsibility for the pedagogical. Having good training and good training also for managers, I believe that quality is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e450	I thank you for your answer. I fully agree with the Council of State that both the pedagogical management of a board of directors and the pedagogical work of the other employees are essential for a good offer. It's not that pedagogics get easier because the kids are smaller – on the contrary, many say. It is important that as many young as possible go to kindergarten. It is good for each young person, it is good for development, it is good for society from a gender perspective, from a poverty perspective, etc. Today it's like 96.6 pst. of all 3 to 5 year-olds in Norway are in kindergarten. That means 3 to 4 pst. by young people in this age group do not go to kindergarten, and we know that there are young people with low-educated and low-income parents who use kindergarten at least. One of the things that makes them use the offer little is the cost. Does the Council agree with the Left that having free core time will help make these parents choose kindergarten for their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e459	I've been very positive about the trials that have been with free core time. They have been limited, among other things. have been in some parts of Oslo, but the research results suggest that this has an effect. So I'm a little bit more skeptical about expanding it to absolutely everybody. The Left Party has also proposed another tool, which I believe is almost as good, and it is more grading the nursery price. We know that when the maximum price came, it was really like this for some municipalities that those who had the worst income had to pay more for the kindergartens. The fact that they have been kept in doubt on the maximum price principle has made very many people with poor finances pay too much for kindergartens in the government's opinion. It can also – although there are only a few percent – that some of them do not have children in kindergarten. So having more graduation of the nursery rate I think I could help get more people in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e467	There will be follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e470	Now led the Council of State's response to the fact that I really wanted to follow up with the Minister of State, sail if that's not what I had thought. So I'm going to follow up with a question to the municipal minister, because right now the Minister of Knowledge said that the Left's proposal to grade the payment within kindergarten and the SFO is very focused on reaching them with the worst advice. I'm really glad to hear that's a good idea. Today, almost no municipalities – there are probably three to four municipalities – have graduated in payment for SFO. That's about. 100 municipalities that have graduated payment in respect of kindergartens. So my question is, if this is a very good idea, what kind of instruments does the prime minister actually have to get to the grip we want, namely, greater use of graduated payment – not focus on max price, which makes it cheaper for them with best advice, but how can we reach the poorest families, those who don't use those offers and who would really do it? We have to make it cheaper for those who can afford the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e479	This is an area where the Progress Party, the Right and the Left have agreed over many years, namely that grading the special nursery price is a right and targeted measure to reach families with the worst of advice. Our opinion has also been that the maximum price has benefited them in particular with good advice, and that it is important and right to obtain a graduation of the nursery price in order to reach the families with the worst advice. It's also an ambition in the Sundvolden statement, and we're now working with different tools to put it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e486	Tone Merete Sønsterud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e489	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge again. Research shows that there is a strong link between children who have gone to kindergarten and good school results. Governments themselves have underlined the importance of this in their response earlier today. But does the Council of State think that the cut in the state budget from the government in 4,000 kindergartens and the increase in cash support are good knowledge policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e496	First for research: when you look at trials with free core time in Oslo, there is a lot of evidence that being in a kindergarten itself has had a good effect, especially for children with a minority background. But of course, it also has something to say about the quality of kindergarten. Therefore, the most important effort of this government is content and quality in kindergarten. So to the main question, after the budget agreement, we've done a technical calculation of what's going to be the effect of increasing cash support and babysitting. Of course, it's also in the word 'calculation' itself that you never know exactly what reality will be, but that it's a calculation, and we used the exact same method that previous governments have used to figure out what the effect is on kindergartens. Then we'll have to follow the situation now, have good dialogue with KS, and see how this turns out. But the government is still committed to strengthening the quality of the nursery. It is also important to say that children who have the right to a nursery place should still have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e505	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e508	I want to follow up on some of the government council's estimates, which had been made after increasing the cash support to NOK 6000. There is now a concern that these estimates have failed, and that there are more than the government had estimated, who choose kindergarten instead of cash support. The concern, which also KS now shares, is that if there are no additional appropriations, the quality of kindergartens will just be affected. My question is: can the Council of State guarantee that we will see in the revised budget that the government is correcting, so that we do not get a situation in the municipalities where you either have to cut in kindergartens or that it goes beyond quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e515	I have three points. The first is – just to repeat it – that this is a technical calculation. When you calculate, sometimes the municipalities get overcompensated. Sometimes it turns out that reality wasn't exactly as calculated. So point 2: It's also important to stress, not to create uncertainty out there, that those who have the right to babysitting have the right to babysitting – point. The municipalities then have an obligation to set up also with those kindergartens. So to point 3: I'm probably not so unique and special as the Council of State that I'll be the first to guarantee or say anything about what will come into a revised budget – you'll have to wait and see until the budget comes. But I am concerned that we are going to have a good dialogue with the municipalities, and of course I am busy seeing how this turns out in practice as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e526	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e529	The kindergarten reform has been a huge success and has given all young children’s parents greater freedom of choice. The first thing the new government did was cut into two annual recordings of minus 241 million. kr. Then you went to the Storting and you were going to get a budget settlement, and the next government did, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, was cut by 344 million. kr in the appropriations for kindergarten because it was thought there would be fewer children in kindergarten. So you chose to cut at the base of 600 million. kr in the kindergarten bet in its first budget. And of course, when the Council of State correctly stresses that it's a right, and that the municipalities must therefore have an obligation to give those places, it's going to go beyond quality if you cut almost 600 million. kr and you are to place more children in kindergartens and do not have the money in place. So I repeat the question: if you set the quality highest, will you make additional appropriations in the RNB, and can the Council of State hereby confirm that you were wrong, and so will you make a correction in the RNB, and with more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e537	Let me first congratulate the representative on the work of the party leader. I can confirm that we've done a calculation, and I can confirm that we've done that calculation using the exact same method that previous governments have also done their calculations with. The red-green government also provided cash support and increased it, among other things. also, for example: Enthusiasm of the Central Party. At that time, the demand for kindergartens was assessed — estimated. We used the same method when we were to count on this year's budget agreement. I'm very concerned that a calculation of course is a calculation. Then we have to have close dialogue with the municipalities and see if this calculation is correct or not – the fasitite only gets us when we see how people actually behave – and then we have to use new experience in future calculations. I think it is quite obvious that if our calculations are not good enough, we must – in future calculations, new policy changes – use new ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e546	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e549	I have to say that it is especially right that the maximum price largely benefits the rich, as was said here instead. One has massively cut child care costs for parents all over Norway, and the increase that now came notices ordinary young children’s parents in the economy – something that tax haven’t done, mainly. What I would like to ask is, however, the commitment to quality. The Minister of Knowledge said there are two things that must be present, and one of them is money. What was present in the 2014 budget was 10 million. kr extra from the new government, so one – as the previous questioner said – cuts hundreds of millions to kindergartens in other fields. My question is simply: are we going to see a quality bet, even in economic terms, which is close to the quality bet that is in school – and which is commendable – or will the quality bet in kindergarten be sacrificed for other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e558	I'm going to jump over the question a little bit. Let me put it this way: in the budget we inherited, there was a great commitment to quality, and I think the red-greens should recognise that in our last budget, we had a big commitment to quality. Then we took that bet on quality, and then we passed it on, and then we put on a little bit more on top – and why? Because we have said that the most important bet with regard to kindergartens in the future is content and quality, among other things. to bring in more kindergarten teachers, and then we have to make sure that unskilled people can take professional letters, that those with a letter can become kindergarten teachers, we have to have training for managers, etc. We are also going to review the framework plan and kindergarten law to see if we can get more learning into the kindergarten, but without the kindergarten becoming a school. Then I can promise that the bet on quality in kindergarten will continue. Then I will finally say this about the maximum price: I understand that the maximum price is important to many. My point was that when it came, it meant increased expenses for many with poor advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e565	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e568	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘It is important to stand up for the values we believe in. Human rights are not a Western value, but a universal value," said Jan Tore Sanner to the NRK after his proposal, Liu Xiaobo, had won the Peace Prize. ‘I believe that it is central to ask whether there are commercial interests that make Norway afraid to stand up to China’, said Jan Tore Sanner to the Evening Post in October 2011 after calling for more clear Norwegian condemnations of human rights violations in China. ‘It is important that Norway is able to stand up for human rights even when it is demanding. You can't just be for human rights when it doesn't cost anything," said Jan Tore Sanner to Today's Business the same month, October 2011, when the Right criticized a diplomatic advance from the previous government towards China. That's all well said! In relation to China, we're now being tested. What is most important to us – is it human rights or is it commercial interests? And how will a small country act when we are pressed by a big – is it wise to be pushed, or is it important to be firm? In SV we believe that the last is the only thing we can stand for. But it's been getting so quiet from the Right lately, and that's why I'm picking up quotes from Jan Tore Sanner from 2010 and 2011, for comfort and inspiration. There has been a debate at Stortinget about how the Dalai Lama is to be welcomed here on the house, and SV has criticized the President's handling of that case. Now everyone is waiting for clarification about the government's handling of the Dalai Lama's visit. When Dalai Lama was in Norway in 2005, the Prime Minister welcomed him. Kjell Magne Bondevik then said that he had a principle of accepting former Peace Prize winners. Will this government abide by the same principle and ensure that members of the government meet the Dalai Lama when he comes to Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e577	I am the first to admit that this is a difficult matter, and it contains demanding dilemmas. We have to weigh different considerations against each other. The goal must be that in Norway we are able to normalise our bilateral relationship with China. It's very bad, almost non-existent, in the situation we've been in. There has been no political contact between Norway and China since 2010, and on many important issues – not just about climate change, not just about how to design global poverty policy, but also about human rights – it is crucial for Norway to have direct dialogue with China. We have to be prepared that if the Norwegian authorities accept the Dalai Lama, it will make it difficult for us to normalize our bilateral relationship, and I think we have to be honest and open about that. The government takes this matter seriously. It's important that we now, in the future, come back in a situation where we can take up human rights directly, as we could do in the past. It is important that we intervene with a nation that has the key to the solutions to many of the major global challenges. There are these considerations that the government will make, in a serious and proper way, and we have not yet reached a conclusion on whether representatives from the Norwegian authorities will meet the Dalai Lama.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e584	Human rights tend to lose out on business interests. We see this clearly both in the relationship of nations and companies with the human rights violations in China. If we are only concerned with securing Norwegian business interests, and do not make clear demands on our trading partners in this area, we are making serious mistakes. This was also a quote, and this time I got a little bit better on the dialect, because this was something Erna Solberg wrote in his book, «People, not billions», in the last period. And that is well said! I respect the fact that the government will spend time on its decision, but it is starting to rush, and the signals coming from the Right team in the debate may cause fear that the government can make a serious mistake – as Erna Solberg would say – in this matter. Norway cannot allow itself to be dictated by the Communist Party in exchange for market access for salmon. There are greater values than money, and this is a good opportunity to show it. I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how the government will make sure to show that what Erna Solberg wrote about the relationship with China still applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e593	As I said in my first answer, Norway is in a uniquely difficult situation with regard to the relationship with China. I don't know about any other Western country that hasn't had political contact with China in nearly four years. I don't know about any other Western country that can't directly address human rights with China. I don't know about any other Western country that can't now discuss the major climate challenges with China. I do not know about any other Western country that cannot sit down with China – as a permanent member of the Security Council – and discuss the challenges in Syria, how to address hunger in Sahel, how to deal with the nuclear programme in different countries and disarmament issues. Our starting point is that we now want to focus on normalizing the relationship with China. And the representative has also noticed that I have so far not mentioned this with financial interests at all. I do not hide the fact that the free trade agreement that the previous government had started was iced as a result of what happened in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e600	Board Vegar Solhjell – for first follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e603	It is crucial for Norway to have a good relationship with China again – mainly because they are important in almost every process we want to affect in the world. It's easy to understand. It is also easy to understand that China prefers Norway not to meet the Dalai Lama rather than meet him. But it's hard to understand, in my view, that it's going to be a resilient way for Norway – and other small countries – to meet the situation we're in with China, with less than usual to address issues of human rights and democracy, or to meet the Dalai Lama. A useful test of whether our own action and our own thinking are correct is often to ask: if others did like us, if others followed our example, how would it work? Let us test: if other small countries occupied by human rights and democracy were to be pushed to the point where their leading parliamentarians did not meet the Dalai Lama, and perhaps government members did not meet the Dalai Lama: Would it be good or bad for the human rights situation in China and Tibet? So let me ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: if other countries were to do like the Norwegian prime minister, not to meet the Dalai Lama, and to doubt whether one was going to meet him at government level: if many countries did, would it be good for human rights in China or bad for human rights in China?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e613	I have great respect for the fact that different conclusions can be drawn in this matter and, as I said, it has many dilemmas and it is difficult. What makes the case very special is that Norway has not had any contact with China in almost four years. The government is now working to normalize this relationship, and we have to be prepared that if we meet the Dalai Lama at government level, that process will take much longer. It's these considerations that we now have to make, and we have to be open around them. I think there are arguments that argue that we also get an impact on human rights in the human rights dialogue we had with China before 2010. At that time Norwegian politicians were in Beijing and took up Tibet's situation, took up freedom of speech, freedom of assembly in China. We don't have this dialogue at all now, and we have to normalize the bilateral relationship. That dilemma is what Norway is facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e620	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e623	I guess it's not quite gone from the Right. I think Right-Ideologist Michael Tetzschner has said very wisely about this issue. I agree that there is a difficult problem, but we cannot see completely black-and-white on this either. When we see the SSB numbers from last year, exports to China from Norway are increasing. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Norway has had a tradition of meeting people and groups with different views and standings. It has enabled us to play a central role in many conflicts. Is it not important that we last precisely the foreign policy thinking that has influenced Norway, and that we might meet different people with different places of stand? I understand that the government has not taken a decision on this. When will the government decide on the visit from the Dalai Lama?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e634	The representative has a very important role to play in this regard, including the role of Norway. in peace and reconciliation processes. We have made an effort in the Middle East, and we are now playing a role in Colombia. In many of the issues that lie at the heart of Norway, as well as these: poverty reduction, the design of the new sustainability targets and the Millennium Goals up to 2030, we will need a bilateral and direct intervention with China if we are to have a political influence and influence. Norway has ambitions in that kind of context, and we have reason to believe that if the Norwegian authorities meet the Dalai Lama, it will postpone a normalisation of the relationship, with the consequences it entails. That's why we have to make those kind of adjustments, and we'll conclude at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e643	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e646	First of all, I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for dealing with the situation in Crimea and for having been so clear about Russia's annexation of Crimea, as he himself has said. If we subtract the parallel back to the 1950s, we have to say that some of the same thing happened to China's invasion of Tibet. My question is, is this a conflict that is somehow forgotten and that you have given up? The Foreign Minister says «heart closest»: 15 years ago he was head of the Tibet Committee of the Great Britain, and perhaps it was a long time ago that he had an interest in that conflict. Is that a lost cause?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e657	In the 1990s, Norway had direct dialogue with China on human rights in general, but the issue of Tibet was also addressed. There has been broad consensus in Norway, and Norway has recognised Tibet as part of China. It has been and is Norwegian official policy. We're going to continue our strong commitment to human rights in the future. What I tried to do today was share with the Storting the dilemmas we face when Norway is in a particularly difficult situation, because we have no dialogue with one of the nations that have the greatest influence on matters that matter much to Norway in the future and today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e664	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e667	It's embarrassing to notice the Right's twist in this case. The Dalai Lama, as a former winner of peace prizes, should be honoured in Norway, as former peace prize winners have otherwise been. As a forming party, the Right should have been part of a worthy country of friendship. It didn't seem like that. I'm wondering every idea not to use the main entrance to Stortinget and not to use the laying room. I would therefore like to ask the Foreign Minister the following questions: Has the government or parts of the government advised the Stortinget not to meet the Dalai Lama as the presidency's guest, and has it given advice on what framework such a visit would have, if it were to find its place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e678	In one of my previous answers, I concluded that I have great respect for the fact that different conclusions can be drawn in this case. We are in a very special situation in Norway. I don't know any other Western country that has no dialogue with, and that has no bilateral relationship with China. We have to take that into account and take it into account the difficult balances we are now making. The government has enough to make the choices for the Norwegian authorities, and I have great faith that the Stortinget is able to make the decisions that are right for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e687	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e691	The Green Party recognises that this is a complex matter, and we appreciate the honest efforts of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to give reasoned answers to the questions that are being asked, but the problem is, as many people point out, that this is a matter that raises very difficult questions. Does this mean that we are looking at a policy that is guiding how we should act against representatives who are critical to countries that are important trading partners for Norway? Does this mean anything about how we're going to deal with Nobel Prize winners from problematic places? But the most important thing is the signal effect, and the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How will the government ensure that China and the rest of the world do not see the position of the government, at least the current position, as an incentive to continue this type of press release to Norway – and to other countries – as an appropriate tool to influence Norwegian policy, having seen how effectively Chinese press policy works to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e704	First, I would like to thank you for the words that express recognition that we have to make some adjustments in this matter. But it is not that Norway does not address human rights issues with China. Before Christmas, Norway raised several questions regarding human rights violations committed in China at the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva. Our challenge is that we no longer have the opportunity to address those kinds of questions directly and bilaterally with the Chinese – as well as other questions we cannot address with them. In addition, Norway is isolated in important international processes if we cannot have a dialogue and a relationship with the Chinese. That's the dilemma. I think many people recognize that Norway is in a special situation now, as I do not know about other Western countries that have not had one real political meeting with dialogue in nearly four years with the world's most populous country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e713	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e716	I want to go back to the theme that was related to kindergarten admissions. In these days, there are a lot of parents who get answers to their applications for kindergarten. Fortunately, after the arrival of 60,000 new kindergartens in the previous period, there are many parents who agree to the request for kindergarten. Nevertheless, we see – at the latest in the study referred to here earlier – that in many municipalities there is now a false assumption that parents are applying for cash support instead of applying for nursery places. In the budget, the government aged its budget by cutting 4 100 kindergartens. Now we see that there is expected to be an increase of approx. 500 in the estimates made by KS. That means we're missing out on 5,000 kindergartens, which are not funded in the municipal sector as of today. Then my question to the Minister of Knowledge is: What is his advice to the municipalities that are currently sitting with a bunch of kindergarten applications that they are going to sign out? Are you going to sign out and say yes to child care applications that cannot be financed, or are you going to send a letter to your parents and say that they do not have kindergarten places, because you have less money from the government to finance kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e729	Thank you for the question. I almost have to repeat the background for this. After the budget agreement at Stortinget, a calculation is made. When the cash support increases, a calculation is made of the effects of this. It's a calculation you do, simply because you never know what the future will bring, and then you have to rely on the best available calculation methods to figure out how the policy will work. We have used exactly the same calculation methods as the red-green government to figure out what kind of effect this has on kindergartens, similar to what the red-greens did when they put in government and increased the cash support. In order not to create uncertainty, it is also important to find that those who are children with rights, i.e. those who are entitled to children's playgrounds, still have the right to children's playgrounds – as before – and that has an obligation for municipalities to offer. I believe that it would be inexorable if I, as the Council of State, were to go in and give advice to another level of government, but I would like to repeat what I have said earlier: we are concerned both to follow the situation carefully and to have a good dialogue with the KS. We have seen what KS has pointed out in the last few days – both in dialogue with the government and in the media – and we will follow the situation closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e736	I thank you for your answer. I have heard the Council of State several times refer to how the Red-Green Government made its calculations. That's what Red Isaac says, but he forgets to take into account the knowledge that came very soon afterwards, in the revised national budget. Then we saw that the theoretical calculation models didn't work, so we had to change the calculations very briefly afterwards. That's why my first question is to the Red Isaac: why haven't you taken into account the new knowledge that came after, when you did your estimation? So to my next question. There are almost 5000 children's playgrounds too small, and you count NOK 100000 in grants per nursery, so the municipalities are now having uncertainties about large amounts. How is this to be financed? Should you take it from what might be nearby? Schools and kindergartens are funded together. Is that where you have to do the cuts to maintain the nursery places?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e747	If the calculations over time do not work – if the calculation methods are not good enough – I think it is an important lesson to adapt them, of course. One of the reasons we're now going to follow the situation carefully is to see if we have to calculate in future policy combinations another way. But we don't know this yet. We have some indications. They point in a slightly different direction, but that's exactly why we're closely following the situation, and having good dialogue with KS about it. I believe that one of the cores of local democracy is that local politicians make local priorities. As a knowledge minister, I believe kindergartens and school are very important priorities, and I hope, of course, that as many as possible remember it. I also believe that the municipal scheme in 2014 is more than strong enough to allow an offensive commitment to quality in kindergarten, in particular with the funds put into the budget by the government, and to have an offensive investment in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e754	It opens for follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e757	My question goes to the Minister of State. Before last year's elections, the Right promised a heavy bet both on quality and on continuous admission to the kindergarten sector. These are tasks for which the municipalities should be responsible. When the budget came this year, the government had, on the contrary, budgeted with fewer kindergartens and instead increased the cash support. The Minister of Knowledge has here repeatedly referred to technical calculations, but for all the municipalities concerned, it involves a cut in the kindergarten area of several hundred million kroner. However, responsible local politicians around the country have now ensured that places are maintained and that they are not cut, in competition with other important tasks for which municipalities are also responsible. Now, the revision is about to be presented, and then my question is to the Minister for Municipalities: Will the Council of State ensure that municipalities are compensated for the increased demand for childcare facilities so that local politicians do not cut in old age care, health and other important welfare tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e764	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the opinion of the representative Helga Pedersen that both quality in kindergartens and ongoing admission require a good community economy. We're concerned that municipalities are going to have a good economy. For the current year, I would say that it is tight, but robust. There is a growth in the free income that is at the level of what the previous government proposed, and that means that the municipalities have managed to re-prioritize. Some have invested more in kindergartens than others. With regard to the question of what comes into the revised national budget, my answer is naturally the same as the Minister of Knowledge has given: Revised national budgets are presented in the middle of May, and then also the answer to what the government will propose in terms of possible compensation to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e771	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e775	When the red-green government asked for the cash support from NOK 3 300 to NOK 5000 for the smallest children, it based it on a calculation of how many people would use the cash support. That calculation proved to be wrong. There were more people who used cash support than we thought. Therefore, we had to increase the allocation of cash support in the revised national budget, because we saw that there was increased demand. We saw that the facts didn't agree with the calculation, and we increased the allocation. My question to Jan Tore Sanner is: When you see that there are fewer people using the cash support than you have calculated, and you see that child care expenditure is going up, isn't it logical to use the same logic as the red-green government and correct the budget with a revision in the revised national budget, adjusted the reality at that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e782	Now, the representative Battle Violence Vedum has noticed that we do not always base the red-green logic on our actions, and it is natural enough that this is a new government with new priorities. Violence Vedum also has government experience, and he knows that there is a emptiness of government governments and governments to leak from budgets before they are presented. So the representative, Mr Vedum, also has to settle for the revised national budget to be presented in the middle of May.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e787	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e790	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The situation we've been in now, after the government wanted fewer children in kindergarten, but where the people's sentence was more children in kindergarten, and one has not taken over the experience of a revised budget in 2012, is quite surprising. I'll take note of that. In discussions we've had here before today, the Minister of Knowledge said something that I'm very much in agreement with, and it's that kindergartens are a very good and important investment in quality in school. My simple question to the knowledge minister Røe Isaksen is: why cash support then?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e797	In addition to our support for and our commitment to quality in kindergarten – we have never spent more money than now, but that in itself is not enough, because we also have to make sure that the money is spent properly – the government believes that families should have freedom of choice: the option to choose, during the time when the children are the youngest, to spend a little more time with them. It is the freedom of choice that cash support provides. I believe that there is a slightly artificial contrast between cash support and kindergarten, precisely because we know that the cash support is not for all kindergartens, and that among the 5 year olds in Norway – if I do not remember completely wrong – it is about 97-98 pst. who goes to kindergarten. In other words, we do not have to bet on quality in kindergarten because we have cash support, nor is it the case that children do not go to kindergarten. Most start even though they have had cash support in the first few years, just a little later. The government's commitment to the quality of kindergarten will continue independently of the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e804	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-23.ana.ud2491e817	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
