ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e59	Representatives Hans Andreas Limi, Gunvor Eldegard, Jørund Rytman, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Knut Arild Hareide, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Geir S. Tuskedal, Elin Rodum Agdestein, Sonja Mandt, Sven Roald Hansen and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e119	Preparedness means being prepared for any emergency situation or other adverse events in a society. The Prime Minister has set up an emergency element at the Prime Minister's office, and I interpret it as the Prime Minister's desire to focus more on preparedness, coordination and coordination of preparedness in a broad sense. That's why I'm lifting this interpellation to look more comprehensively at the readiness, look at the part that's rarely lifted up. There is an incredibly large and important effort being made by voluntary emergency services in Norway. It is also natural to raise this as it approaches Easter, as we all go up the Easter mountain to enjoy the last snow, while very many other Norwegians go up to the mountain to watch out for us – and we take it almost for granted. When it happens a step, or when some of us go away, or if we were to get hurt, we take it for granted that we get help, almost wherever we are in this country. Every day 12,000 volunteers stand ready to help us if any of us should disappear, walk away or need help for other reasons, yes, sail when the major accidents occur, such as. in Laerdal, or in search of hit cases, such as: on Aksla. There were the volunteers who helped the police, and it was the volunteers who saved lives. If we go beyond the scope, we expect someone to look for us, and it is often not the state that does – but the volunteers. But in the media, there is often a focus on the top end of the effort: the large public institutions that contribute. But what is usually behind a rescue operation is hours of preparation and years of hard work. The voluntary element of preparedness is often the difference between life and death — one sitting on enormous local knowledge — and it was established long before we got public institutions. ‘Dognad’ and ‘go mangard’ are words and expressions that have been found much longer than the Norwegian Constitution and the Norwegian State as an institution. Therefore, it is important that voluntary rescue resources have both good conditions and receive attention and feel that they are valued by society. I am really sure that the Prime Minister agrees with me that they are important, and that there is a broad political consensus on that, but nevertheless it is a very small part of the public debate. That is why I want to have a bit of a broad debate on the voluntary part. Preparedness is also more than search and rescue. The preparedness work carried out within everything from the Red Cross and the Rescue Company to rescue dogs and Norwegian Public Aid is much more than just search and rescue. There is also a need for non-governmental organisations to carry out all the other tasks. Often volunteers are very quickly in place when different situations arise. An example from recent times is how the Norwegian people stood up and in a short time sent huge amounts of clothes and baby carriages to Lærdal, because it was known that many had lost their homes. It is also appropriate to make it clear that the first care that is often offered to those affected by an accident is given by volunteers, for example. the first place to be offered for assembly. The first to help with practical tasks and the first to open their homes when crises and disasters occur are voluntary — often organised by voluntary organisations. An important part of our emergency work is not only to extinguish fires, find missing persons and take perpetrators – there is also a presence for each other before, during and after a disaster. It is now ten years since Odd Einar Dørum launched the WHAT IF project, which was to look at the rescue service in a 20-year perspective. That project had many proposals with measures, both economic and practical. I think there is a need to look again at whether there are measures we should take to improve this. Based on that statement, volunteers have been given access to the emergency network in the last 10 years, we have increased the grant to the volunteers, and the costs they receive during ongoing actions are now covered by the state, at up-to-date rates. That's good. At the same time, voluntary organisations report that there are several actions, increased equipment requirements and not least increased training requirements. It presents challenges for the future financial framework. We have had many major public investigations, such as: Now 2013: 5 When it's real, looking at reinforcement resources – the civil defence, the police reserve and the Home Office. At the same time, the sample delivered by the NOU is clear that there should have been a separate review of the framework conditions for the voluntary rescue services. There are up to 500 operational units, but they are constantly challenged by new ideas and thoughts in the state about what is required. The workforce of voluntary organisations is expected to have a high level of competence – they do – and they also have very good motivation for their job, and they have extremely short response time. This isn't really just about resources, but it's an important part of it, because we expect to have the best training and the best equipment. The nine organisations that I have been in contact with say that there is a need for increased resources to acquire equipment, professional development and recruitment, better prevention, involvement of young people in rescue services, courses and exercises. There's not much money here, but it's about facilitating the volunteer we're so addicted to. All investigations have focused on the need for increased use of exercises, and there is increasing pressure on organisations. It is also important to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about the coordination of public preparedness and voluntary preparedness. Since 22 July many aspects of Norwegian preparedness have been debated. We have received a police study, a fire study, and we have received a review of the reinforcement resources, but we must not forget the voluntary resources in this context. There is a need for a comprehensive national preparedness both before, during and after a crisis, and then for volunteers to be included in all preparedness work. Police must have good knowledge of how to use volunteers, how to motivate volunteers, and how to lead volunteers, and that should be part of basic training for the police. We also see that weather and terrain, more extreme weather and climate change, will lead to more extreme rescue operations where there is a greater need to have a different kind of knowledge of weather and terrain, and where one becomes very dependent on having resources distributed locally. This applies primarily outside the Oslo area. Large amounts of rainfall can give us landslides, snow slides and floods. It challenges how we think about preparedness in Norway, and local capacity will become more important in the future. After July 22nd, we've often talked about the resources that didn't meet. Not integrating the voluntary part of the preparedness will really be about not letting the resources meet. It is important that many non-governmental organisations today take on a large number of coordination tasks in crisis situations, that they manage daily telephones that monitor needs, and that they ensure that qualified staff contribute where the needs are greatest. In Norway, we have organised the Norwegian rescue service as a cooperative between public actors, voluntary actors and private individuals. It's the local rescue team that allows us to invite tourists to experience sea and mountain, stay decentralised, and have important jobs on the sea and on the mountains. After the tragic incident on 22 July, everything that went wrong in the police department has been focused. It has been right and important to prepare, and there have been major investigations, but we have not yet seen what is going on in order to contribute and strengthen the voluntary part of our rescue service. My question to the Prime Minister is: How will the government facilitate municipalities to exploit the capacity and competence of voluntary organisations before, during and after the major or small disaster?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e165	I would first like to thank the representative, Trine Skei Grande, for the interpellation. I fully agree with Skei Grande that the voluntary organisations are a carrier in Norwegian readiness. Norway is a long-distance country with scattered settlements. It makes it impossible for all rescue and preparedness work in all local environments to be covered by the public. At the same time, Norway is on the verge of volunteering. We depend entirely on the local contribution and the local knowledge they represent when crises, accidents or disasters occur. It is therefore important to have the voluntary capacity of training in advance, crisis management and follow-up. The three large voluntary organisations – Red Cross, Norwegian Public Aid and the Rescue Company – cover a very wide range of national rescue and preparedness work. I will praise them for an invaluable effort, an effort all year round, of which there is great respect. However, there are also many other organisations that contribute to the security of their neighbourhoods and that contribute to the security of individual areas in the field of preparedness. Only this winter could all of Norway see the importance of local volunteering in both Flatanger and Lærdal. It is usually the local population that is closest, that reacts first, and that has the best local knowledge. In a short time, many Northmen travel on Easter holidays. Then it's very good for us to know that many volunteers are sacrificing their holiday just to be there in readiness to save us if the accident is first out, whether it's on the mountain or at sea. It is an obvious task for the government to contribute to creating security in everyday life. I also believe that everyone has come to realize that this government is taking prevention, preparedness and crisis management for the most serious reason. We must ensure that Norway is equipped to deal with future crises. We need to see the whole area of social security and preparedness as a whole. We must be able to think more comprehensively and ensure that political decisions are translated into action. Because of these principles, it is important for the government to involve volunteers in the widest possible range of areas in order to create good interaction. When it is those who have the best local knowledge, yes, they must be involved in the planning from day one. Let me draw out the rescue service as an example. The service consists of a cooperative between a number of public, voluntary and private actors. Their volunteers are part of the plan for all the country's rescue centers. The Norwegian rescue service is simply considered a national service. The combination of professionalism and the high level of competence of volunteers is quite unique for the Norwegian rescue service. It's something to be proud of. There was also broad agreement to increase the allocation to the Rescue Company by 20 million. kr during the budget procedure of the harvest. In addition, the government has strengthened the Main Rescue Center by 9 million. kr. We are now in the midst of a commitment to better communication solutions to strengthen preparedness and better interaction between emergency situations. Emergency networks are under step-by-step development and deployment across the country and shall be nationwide by the end of 2015. This will provide a clear boost to preparedness and crisis management by allowing emergency and emergency missions across the country to operate on the same communication platform. The large voluntary rescue actors are already included in the Emergency Network, but the government has now decided to open up more non-governmental organisations that can contribute to social security to access the Emergency Network so that we can ensure that their competence is taken into account. The investment in the Emergency Network is one of the biggest efforts in civil society security ever. This will strengthen the capacity of society to handle critical tasks. Another important example of cooperative activities is national and local preparedness exercises that include voluntary organisations. It is important, both for the public and for the volunteers, to practice interaction in practice and to get a good knowledge of the resources available to society and how best to use them. An example is the Great Barents Rescue Exercise, directed by the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, which this year was based on a major and devastating leap in Lyngen. This was attended by non-governmental organisations, together with agencies from all the countries involved in Barents cooperation. Another example is the practice in the Hattfjelldal where three Red Cross relief corps participated in the rescue operation together with the police from Norwegian and Swedish sides and the Civil Defense. The important thing about using these examples is to emphasize that we involve volunteers in the practice early to know that it works in a crisis situation. The government wants closer cooperation between municipalities and voluntary organisations. By e.g. The fire study conducted by the Ministry of Justice and Security has described the need to strengthen cooperation in the field of preparedness in general and between the municipal and inter-municipal fire and rescue services in particular. Here it is, among other things. a potential and an opportunity to improve interaction with the volunteers, and this will be followed up by the government. No matter where in the country a crisis occurs, it will challenge the preparedness of that particular municipality. This is why each municipality in Norway has a compulsory emergency service. Among the things it involves is that they should have a comprehensive overview of all the response capacities in the municipality. This, of course, includes the various voluntary organisations and how best to involve and use them. This concerns both the prevention work, the crisis situation and the follow-up work. The Government will ensure that voluntary action is freed from political governance, that it retains its distinctive character and that it grows from below. But volunteering in the field of preparedness is therefore an integral part of all of our public emergency equipment and is part of the voluntary resources we have. Therefore, it is important that we take care that the economic framework conditions are good enough for this to continue. The Government is generally committed to improving the conditions of non-governmental organisations by strengthening the financial arrangements for voluntary activities, simplifying the rules and facilitating organisations to raise their own revenues. Good society is created through the efforts of each individual in different small and large communities. Anyone who is a volunteer makes a big difference both to the individuals they help and to society as a whole. I think it is important to stress that the efforts made by volunteers cannot be replaced by the public or the market. Although they are professional, even though they are well educated, although many of the assignments carried out, especially rescue work, require a lot of training, the element of volunteering is incredibly important. It also means that we in Norway are able to have resources locally, which we would not otherwise be able to make clear if everything were organised through the public. The importance of volunteering is particularly evident in the rescue and preparedness work. The proximity and knowledge of the community and the people living there are essential. It's important to know who lives in a house if you're going to evacuate. Local knowledge of what resources can be drawn on is important. It is not least that volunteering contributes to much of the preparedness work done on prevention — that as much as possible in the Norwegian community should be able to provide some first aid, so that you do not have to be trained to help when you get to an accident site or a crime scene, but you can do some basic things. These are important elements that volunteering contributes to. Everything from sea-wet to first-aid training is important for the Norwegian society to be better able to deal with small and large crises. It is also important that we maintain the interoperability principle in rescue and preparedness work in Norway, that we build up and facilitate the important and crucial part of volunteering and remain in the years to come. The government is prepared to be in dialogue with the voluntary organisations on how to optimise the framework conditions. There are small and big challenges. We intend to address both the large and the small, because the voluntary contribution to the preparedness work is invaluable in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e199	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. That means that she thinks it's important to bet on and improve our preparedness. I have some follow-up questions after her answer. One applies to framework conditions. Many parts have been increased after the large investigation that was 10 years ago. But we also see that the number of exercises is increasing. It also increases the pressure on voluntary organisations, both in terms of materials and the organisation of working life. So my question is whether the Prime Minister has taken on board that the increased exercises will also affect the voluntary part, in terms of both money and material, and that the VAT issue is also part of this. The second point I want to follow up is about volunteer management training. Both I and the Prime Minister know that there is a great difference between managing employees and leading volunteers. Volunteers are there only as long as it's fun – as long as it gives them more back than they feel they're giving. Voluntary work gives a lot. I remember that one of the volunteers said that he volunteered as a volunteer to help, and now he wasn't quite sure who helped who. Voluntary work gives much back. But often it is the police who have management in important and large contexts. Then it's important that we have a police officer who understands the nature of volunteering, which makes volunteers feel valued, respected and well managed. This means that part of police education should also include how to lead volunteers in a good way, which motivates people to come back. My last question is that these organisations also need to have room for action to do the job, but also to recruit, motivate and get young people into new groups. That means you also need to have a framework to do that part of the job. There are many who think it is rewarding to have a voluntary activity, where you feel valued for the job you do – that it is important. But then the organizations have to have room for action to recruit more people. There are quite a thousand hours of practice behind a good rescue dog and the rescue dog's leader. That work effort shall be worthwhile. You have to feel like you're getting a slap on your shoulder and respect for the job you're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e210	We are fully aware that the framework conditions — with increased exercises, with more use of the material — will be a challenge in the future. That's one of the reasons we've been concerned about the VAT refund issue. We are still committed to ensuring that the VAT you pay is refunded, as the four parties behind today's government's accession have also said in their previous proposals in the Stortinget. I think the problem of training in volunteer management is a very important issue. I'm not sure if we need to include it in the police training as much as we need to have it in the management training of the police in the context of local management. This is also an important part of the work on training in advance, practicing what you have, learning how to mobilise resources and community preparedness. My experience is that rapporteurs who are in the forefront of emergency work are significantly more familiar with volunteering and volunteer mobilization than perhaps many of those who work in professional emergency services. I'm going to take with me that moment, like a note about areas you have to look at. So the question of the economic space for non-governmental organisations in general. It's a challenge, based on changes that have occurred, both in terms of gambling revenue and other. At the same time, it is a fundamental challenge for many organisations that many of the money allocated to public budgets are allocated to projects rather than to basic funding. In the Sundvollen platform, it is an important basis for us to focus a little less on project financing and more on basic funding. We are now working on reviewing these issues in the voluntary sector to find principles for how to do this. It is clear that the project funding that has been running is also quite demanding at administrative level in terms of reporting. Projects are often created by project to maintain normal activity. This means that there is a basis for looking at funding and how we use state aid systems for non-governmental organisations — perhaps also to give more robustness to the main organisations and to promote actions that they need in the future in Norway. As I said in my introduction, we also want to address the challenges that arise. We know that challenges have emerged, for example. related to divers and to the Red Cross Labour Inspectorate’s instructions. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has recently met with the Red Cross to find a lasting solution to this system – to ensure good professionalism and competence, within a regime that is possible for voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e221	I would like to thank the representative Trine Skei Grande for taking the initiative for a very important debate. The representative has a way of talking about the ownership of the volunteer, which I'm sure many appreciate. When there is a race in the Easter mountain, the Red Cross is there quickly and performs searches. When the accident is out on the sea, it is often the Rescue Company that is first in sight. When someone goes away and gets hurt on a trip, Norwegian People's Aid and steps will come. It has at least two dimensions. One is that it is efficient, accurate and socio-economic wise to facilitate the contribution of voluntary organisations in national preparedness. I guess the second dimension is so important. It's that the value of listening to the help corps approaches when you're stuck after a race in the mountains, can't be measured in money. The value of human proximity, voluntary care, human warmth, can be a difficult word to describe. It is a value that is fundamental to our society, a society based on community solutions and cooperation. In the 2008 Social Security Communication, the dwindling government wrote: ‘No sector alone can prevent, reduce, impede or address the societal security challenges of the future.’ I feel that there is broad political support for this, and I am pleased about that. The voluntary organisations make a particularly important contribution to day-to-day events, as in search and rescue operations, but they are also important to our national preparedness for major crises and disasters. I want to go so far as to say that the interaction between the public, the volunteers and the private actors is the pillars of the Norwegian rescue service – for these actors do not compete, they complement each other. It also showed the experience from 22 July 2011. It is therefore clear that volunteers need equipment and access to emergency networks. In many contexts, volunteers are the only resources available in the acute phase, and then natural users of the emergency network. Therefore, the previous government suggested that voluntary organisations can become full users of the emergency state's new closed communications system. When I was Minister of Culture, we outlined a solution for the volunteer organizations that made the important preparedness and rescue organisations, who had previously received money from the slot machines, secure a fixed portion of the tippers in the future. It was about the Red Cross, the Norwegian People's Aid and the Rescue Company. What I mean is a good model to secure the carefree and solid resources also in the future, which I think is important given the special role that they have. I hope that the new government will not jeopardize the prejudicial conditions of these organizations when they look at possible changes in the Norwegian Typing Game Model. In the future, it is important to involve and strengthen the contribution of voluntary organisations. The proximity of communities and local conditions, the knowledge and competence of organisations and the commitment of volunteers make these a powerful resource that the Labour Party wants to bring closer into the preparedness and security work. This includes: to further work on nationwide emergency networks, to strengthen coordination and the use of all response capacities, to facilitate better coordination of the rescue services cooperative and to establish clear, common procedures for response in the rescue services. It is also natural that voluntary actors are included in municipal emergency plans. Comedian and writer Are Kalvø created some years ago a list of what he liked about Norway. One of the points was that every volunteer who throws everything in their hands and does anything to help when something serious happens is a normal human being. The fact that we have a strong voluntary effort in our country is quite invaluable. We have seen in many situations that ordinary people can make the difference between life and death, and they can also make the difference between good life and survival. The more important it is that they are closely involved in state initiatives to strengthen preparedness, but not least that they receive political support for their own initiatives. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is drawing up the need for good knowledge of first aid and of the unorganised voluntary effort. I allow myself to add, and I believe the Prime Minister agrees, that more people also want to become blood donors. It is also an important part of our health care, so please visit www.giblood.no and be registered there. Finally, I would like to say that the representative Skei Grande pointed out that the Prime Minister has established a security and preparedness element responsible for coordination and that she interprets it as an expression that the Prime Minister will be close. The Prime Minister and I have had many exchanges of words about this. In the practical effort of SMK, I find that there is really only one significant change from the previous government, and there are ‘short-term exposures of key professionals’ before preparation, and that there is a commitment to preparedness and coordination of preparedness, one must either be very creative or a member of the Right to mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e245	Thank you to the interpellant for taking up an important problem area for debate here in the Chamber. There is a fundamental and important understanding among interpellant questions that society can never be safe. No matter how many good decisions we make in this room or at other levels of government in the Kingdom, society will be at risk. It is a shared responsibility to facilitate the minimisation of that risk and, of course, to be able to deal with the crises and situations that arise. I also want to thank the Prime Minister for her very good considerations and good answers to the interpellant. It is nice to be able to be in a situation where it is actually the Prime Minister who is invited to the Grand Duchy to debate this important issue that concerns the fundamental security of society. I am tempted by the ability to repeat to the previous representative that one must almost be a member of the Workers' Party in order to understand that having a Prime Minister with genuine interest in social security weakens social security. That's the exact opposite of what we see here. A prime minister who answers well, and gives important signals to us about what the government will invest in, strengthens social security. There's no doubt about it. It's about when we're raising volunteers in this good way, it's about spreading the understanding in society that social security is something we all have a responsibility for. We have many professional institutions that make a fantastic effort – police, health services, fire, defense, home security – but it is the volunteers who represent the robustness of society. They're the ones closest to where it happens when it happens. It is where the robustness arises — when they are ready to take their share of responsibility and assist those who need help. It's the robust society. I am delighted to have a background as rapporteur in a municipality where it runs a large river. In my time as rapporteur, we were given predictions that there was a 50-year-old flood on the way, and that would mean that large parts of the municipality center Hokksund had to be evacuated. The calmness and robustness of the people of Hokksund met with it was visible evidence that there is something in the Norwegian population to cope with crises in a proper way. Yes, they were ready to move. They had lived by this river for generations. They came back. Fortunately, there was no 50-year-old flood, there was a 20-year-old flood, but the calm people showed, the tranquility they represented when the Home Guard released sandbags, when the helicopters flew over the city centre, when the newspapers almost ran down the doors – it is a robust society that meets crises in a sensible way. That's what this is all about, and that's what we all want to make right. There, employers – I would mention – also have a responsibility to show willingness to meet volunteers who have to move out on short notice. Here, in addition to the municipalities and the state, the county councils have an important role to play – a responsibility for facilitating the responsibilities and tasks of volunteering. Here, of course, the state, as the Prime Minister has been involved several times in his speech, has a great responsibility to facilitate this. Several volunteers want to get closer to planning emergency exercises. Yeah, I think that's a good input to practice more and better. So thank you to the interpellant and thank you to the Prime Minister for good answers, good questions. An important debate – thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e260	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for an important interpellation, and also, not least, thank the Prime Minister for a good response. I like the ideological approach to the matter, because it's actually a great part of it. It's incredibly good that people help each other. Consider that perspective — that we have so many in Norway who want to help each other. It is absolutely vital for readiness that they actually do it, but also the ideological approach – it does something about society that one has volunteering. There's a difference between a society where people put up for each other, and a society where they don't. The fact that in Norway we have so many people who want to be volunteers is a great value in itself. That's why it's been important for the Christian People's Party repeatedly to lift the volunteer, non-profit organisations, because we see the incredibly important value it has for society. What the interpellant points to, lifting the engagement, is absolutely crucial, that we from the political side are involved and substantiate and ensure that the volunteer organisations can get the assistance they need in order to be able to carry on the work. Local organisations often have the important local knowledge. They are often first on site – sometimes on their own. It is absolutely crucial at that stage. We need to secure this commitment and that they can do their work. There are several people who have thought about it: we are approaching Easter. My knowledge or experience with rescue organisations is often about me being on the mountain, skiing and meeting Red Cross, whether it's just nice – they meet us and give us something – or that they are involved in rescue operations. Prior to the interpellation, I was contacted by Norwegian People's Aid. They reminded me of one important thing, that – as they wrote – it is really a myth that the Norwegian rescue service is just helping the Danish skiturist who has gone wild in the mountains. They wrote that in 2013 one third of their missions were to find missing dements. One third of the missions were more typical rescue operations, and the last third was for those at increased risk of suicide. It shows that there is an overall work done by voluntary organisations. Resources are important. We need to help and make sure they have equipment. You know the high quality you need when it comes to it, you have to, for example: operate with mountain rescue action. We also need to contribute resources so that one can secure recruitment and take care of volunteering. We believe – as the Prime Minister pointed out – that we can do more on the State side to ensure full exemption from VAT. We can also do more in terms of tax deductions. I also think it is a great perspective to facilitate people to give – and that they want to give – money to volunteer. I think that's a good thing, and it's not least important for the volunteer organizations. Training and preparation are essential. As was also clearly underlined by the representative, Mr Werp: It is important to be allowed to participate in the planning work. There will be better results when you get to cooperate and get your preparedness planned together. It is important that the municipalities take their part in the responsibility. I am pleased that KS has previously been very clear that they are actively working towards the municipalities to ensure that the voluntary rescue organisations are also part of the planning work done in the field of preparedness. Nor can I avoid standing here as a representative of the South and not mention the Rescue Company. They're doing a great job. At sea they are involved in laying the groundwork for safe movement. Not least they save an incredible amount of lives. It is also an example of an organisation that needs a lot of investment, because the equipment on the boats is of high quality, it is very complicated. That is why this will also be important for them. I believe that the political task is that we should work to take care of and strengthen the voluntary commitment. I believe that the new direction and the clear initiative of the Prime Minister and Government, that one will strengthen voluntary organisations, is crucial. The Christian People's Party expects that in future work, we will jointly manage four parties to the majority, in various areas, lift the voluntary organisations – that is, the work done in the field of preparedness – so that one takes care of the volunteers, ideals, in all sectors, and so that we share in building up on it as best we can from the political point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e283	It's great that the interpellant addresses this topic for debate. Norway is not one of the simplest countries to do good emergency work in. The special geography here to countries means that we can't organize ourselves like any other country. As a result, organisations around the country have been growing up for very many years to ensure that they themselves are prepared when events occur, either by sea, by mountains, by nature or by road. As politicians, these voluntary initiatives must ensure that they are developed in the best possible way, both through promises and through other stimulating measures. In Norway, we have a unique model to ensure important emergency services throughout the country. Many of the key preparedness is based on volunteering. People who are in full-time work are on evenings, weekends and holidays in preparation for any assignment. Each of these has a unique competence. They often know their local environment well, and when the accident is over, they can respond in a very short time. On a trip abroad, I am often reminded that Norway is unlikely to be privileged to have such a system, and that this must be something that goes into the Norwegian testimony. I think there's a lot right about this. We're used to dealing with each other. There is a reason why the word ‘virgin’ was used to refer to the national word here. Without voluntary organizations, preparedness in Norway would be much worse, and we would be forced to build a bureaucracy that would not light up the purpose. Good models to get emergency units to cooperate as closely as possible are important. Then we need to set up an information exchange and competence development system. We cannot take the voluntary organisations for granted. We're about to meet for the Easter holidays. The Easter mountain without the presence of, inter alia: The Red Cross, or Norwegian Public Aid, would in many places imply that local preparedness was a significant blow. When the accident is over, it's not important for the person who's in the frame to get help from someone who's stuck in a nutshell or from a volunteer. The central thing is that you get help. In order to ensure that this is done in the best possible way, we, as politicians, need to facilitate the development of competences across the units. We must ensure that we maintain the unique Norwegian model and that we do not establish schemes that weaken the local initiative. Local layers and associations must feel that they have their authority with them and that they are taken seriously. There are already significant reforms in several cases. The size should not, however, lose sight of the voluntary devices. These are the pillars of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e306	The Norwegian rescue service is about much more than saving lives when you're in danger. The rescue service manages something of the finest in our culture, namely solidarity between people when someone is in danger. This is how the Head Rescue Center describes the Norwegian rescue service. That's a good description. Just a neighbor who helps a neighbor when someone is in need is the basis for us to be able to live, work and emerge in our nature. Voluntaryness has the effect that it's based on free will. It is worth reflecting for a second on the fact that we have a lot of volunteering — high participation — in Norway compared to a lot of other countries. A major reason for this is that we have managed to be a country with high confidence in the population, with little differences between us, a country where we feel to a large extent as part of the same team, and therefore are willing to set a lot of standards for each other. It is true, as has been said here, that very many people are aware that volunteering is important, that the voluntary rescue services are important in the Easter mountain – that they are important in the event of major crises. The fact that one third of the actions concern demented people and another third concern those at increased risk of suicide, and that very many of the operations are in densely populated areas, is not so much known. But it's a very important part of what we're taking advantage of in Norway. I would like to thank the interpellant for having an important debate on how to take care of the commitment, the culture of volunteering and the motivation of those we can trust when an accident strikes – perhaps especially because some fields have few champions, while the voluntary rescue work is rather characterized by the fact that it has everyone as champions. Maybe that's exactly why it can sometimes be taken as of course, because everyone is just for that. We have had a major review of Norwegian preparedness after July 22. There's been a fire study, a police study, and an emergency selection has been set up to look at the health service. In 2013, there was an important NOU, ‘When it really applies...’. There was a selection, under the leadership of County Councillor Ann-Kristin Olsen, who looked at the state reinforcement resources, i.e. the civil defence, the police reserve and the Home Office. The selection had clear recommendations for all three, but added an important message about the voluntary rescue services. They write: ‘In the development of the State Reinforcement Resource, a parallel look should be taken at how to strengthen and develop local volunteering and align roles and tasks between resources so as not to weaken overall preparedness.’ The reason was that volunteering not only plays an important role in interacting with the others, but actually has the lead and is only out in many of the decisive situations we've been in here. It is the primary resource in the search for a missing person, by saving a person who is sick or injured from the mountain. I think it might be a good idea to put down a Norwegian public distribution that also goes through the situation of the volunteer rescue service, and carefully assess their resource situation, their image for today, and not least their interaction with all the other systems that are currently changing and strengthening. Voluntary resources are locally anchored; they have short response time and high internal requirements for education and training. I have e.g. I notice that in American this is often called unpaid professionals to give an image of what is required internally, and what is required to be involved in these operations. On average, the rescue operations are now increasing according to the organizations by 10 pst. This year. Important organizations such as the Red Cross, Public Aid, the Rescue Company, the Rescue Dogs, etc. feels that there is a clear increase not only in many operations but also in their requirements. It makes it natural for us to look over the years ahead at the resource situation, but I also think it underlines the need to put down a public distribution that goes through the whole picture, and look at how we're going to get to the interaction in the future. I would like to add that it is in the nature of the matter that volunteering is independent. She is today, a participant only – as many have been in it – of her own free will. But it's also an enormous strength for Norway that we can have a close and good interaction between public systems and volunteering. It makes us extra capable of dealing with difficult situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e328	I would like to thank the representative Skei Grande for raising a very important issue. I would also like to thank all those who every time the crisis strikes or the accident is over, who make an invaluable effort in the voluntary preparedness work around the country. In my own homeland, Sogn and Fjordane, we were able to feel the importance of local preparedness and voluntary effort in connection with the fire in Lærdal earlier this year. The voluntary effort was entirely decisive to reduce the level of damage, and local preparedness with local knowledge and volunteers was the key to ensuring the security of people. Last night I met the spokesman in Lærdal and asked him, "What did the voluntary effort mean for the Great Fire in Lærdal?" He replied that he meant almost everything that went well. The help came and was quickly starting to register the house, the number of the house, whether it was bidding people there or not. The Red Cross came from all neighbouring municipalities and established important radio connections when the telephone lines were down. The peasants set up golden carriages, as Queen Sonja called golden carriages, which ran in place millions of litres of water. The head of the area, the head of HV – who was also in Public Aid – quickly saw the extent of the crisis and got called home. This is an example of the importance of voluntary action in addition to that of the municipalities of fire protection and health care and all the other elements of the emergency plan. Such events or other events will occur in the future, and so we need to make sure that we can handle this best. Volunteering in Norway is in a special position, including in the field of emergency services, and these organisations are essential in the preparation of emergency plans by counties and municipalities. In this context, it is important that we include volunteers in the emergency plans and in the national plans, but there should be no doubt that responsibility will always lie with the authorities. The voluntary organisations also have an important role in prevention, through information and practice, and it is important that we from central authorities enable them to do so in a good way. We must give organisations good framework conditions, but at the same time it is equally important to stress that it must always be the state responsible for preparedness. The competence of each organisation must be used in the event of a crisis. We have – as many people have underlined here – a long country with few people, but with people living around the whole country. In spite of this, we were very close to creating security for our citizens. The fact that many volunteers choose to spend a lot of time and energy on getting involved in the preparedness work is a good thing. As authorities, we must then ensure that we build up under this initiative, include it in the preparedness plans both locally and nationally, and also in the sytem to provide the voluntary good growth conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e342	I think it is very good to hear the debate that is here, the issues that have been raised, and also the good attitude of all the representatives towards volunteering and the importance for society. I make myself some thoughts from real life, how it is. As a fisherman, I have been lying on the sea and received a note in the propeller and received help from the Rescue Company. It was very reassuring, there was no damage to the crew, not to me as a skipper, and not to the ship. We got ashore well, and we got out again immediately afterwards and got to be part of the catch. We got the output, we got the production, we got the catch, we got it, we got the tax income from both the operation and the crew. It's very important that e.g. The rescue company has a predictable financing. It may not be so safe for them, but it's important for us here in Stortingen to base it and secure it. So, for example, this is important. The rescue company. Three years ago, during the Easter celebration, a youth in Finnmark was surprised by a snowstorm. Several young people are frozen in their heels. The other youths were saved, including: by volunteers and non-governmental organisations, who were very important in the difficult rescue work that was being undertaken. This is one of several stories that have also been told here, where we who live in society have come to know the importance of volunteering. Our community is based on it, not least in e.g. Finnmark, where there are several days' walk between each position you can expect to get a public help from. So the voluntary rescue work is very important. Then it is also very strange to hear that in the Kingdom of Norway we get the news at NRK Finnmark this morning that Red Cross in Alta cannot afford, has no money to buy snowmobiles now in front of the Easter season. If anything happens, the Red Cross in Alta can't move out, because they don't actually have a snowmobile, which is almost all-round in some environments. It tells us about the seriousness of this. I want to say to Stortinget: it doesn't just keep us getting this, and that we have good thoughts and intentions about this, we also need money. We in the Storting must ensure that those who do these important jobs for humans also get the financial resources to do this voluntary work. Then we'll get a better response. We have to remember that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e355	A few years ago, we discussed the enlarged concept of culture in Stortinget. Today, we are discussing the extended concept of preparedness in many ways. The interpellant, Skei Grande, shall have the honor of having raised the discussion. Voluntary activities have long traditions in Norway. Volunteering was the very readiness of many parts of the country a few years ago. Some organisations even bear the word ‘freedom’ in their title. I remember the Voluntary Sniper Service, which was established in 1893, and which had a very important role in the country's national defence. There are many examples of volunteers arriving first at the scene of the accident. That makes sense. Where there are people living, there is volunteering. But it is also equally obvious that where there are people living, there is not always a public preparedness organisation present. Preparedness is coordination and preparedness work is practice. There are many organisations mentioned here in the hall today, and more could be added. For example, I can. mention the Norwegian Mountain School, the Skredgruppen, etc. These are people who use their leisure time to stand up for society in emergency work, and have a strong motivation in their work. What we see over and over again is that the public gets a lot of money left for the small economic resources allocated to these organizations. In that way, I very much agree with the previous speaker, who was just talking about this topic. Just because there are so many organisations in the emergency field, it is actually important to have an overview of all these organisations. There are examples of police districts not having an overview of which voluntary organisations exist in the various police districts. It's a situation that we can't accept. It is necessary to make clear to the police that they have a continuous overview in their emergency plan of which non-governmental organisations are to participate in the preparedness work in their area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e368	It is a very important and great debate that has been raised here today. I would like to thank the inter-pellant, and I also thank the Prime Minister for a very good answer. The good spirit in Norway is great, and I am very pleased and proud of that. In Norway, we are good at volunteering, but we are also very good at doing it. We are also good at getting ready, and with skill, volunteering and readiness, this will be a good result in the end. What is important is that, in addition to the large voluntary organizations, such as the Red Cross, Norwegian Public Aid and the Rescue Company, we have all the small organisations that are out in the community. These small organisations are important – they are important for preparedness, for security, but they are also important for people who are part of these organisations. Now we see that there are a lot of people coming into the gallery today. I don't know if there's a breach on the label to say that, but I want to say that these young people who come in here are good contributors, good recruiters to volunteer in Norway. There are such young people we need more in the organizational life to come. That's what volunteering is based on, that we get these young people involved, that they're in the relief corps around, in the Red Cross, in Norwegian People's Aid, that they're part of and contribute to society. When we manage to get these to work together, we have a good security, a good security, and then we have a good preparedness. We had a big crisis exercise in Brønnøysund. Well, there's a small place, but it's far from the innermost edge to the outer edge. Then we actually discovered exactly what a previous post had as its theme. Does the police know what equipment is, of possibilities, of voluntary organisations? They didn't know that -- they realized that on that exercise. And then the big thing happens: we get a big storm that separates the inside and the outside part. Who was the one who then stood up and helped to provide food for the nursing homes in the middle of the spring? Yes, it was the Civil Defense. It just shows how important we have these organizations with us. I am very pleased that the Right Party government has a point of volunteering in its platform. We know that it will be seized, and that it will be made available to non-governmental organisations in the future as well. I have that as a prayer to both our government and the parties that are in charge of us, that we will continue to do so in the future. It was a good move that was made at the last budgetary procedure, by increasing the allocation to the Main Rescue Centre by 9 million. kr. We needed it, but we need more in the future. We will focus on providing the voluntary organisations with good framework conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e385	I would like to thank interpellantly Trine Skei Grande for an important question to the Prime Minister, and to the Prime Minister for good answers – this is a very important topic. I've been in and I've been looking at DSB's municipal survey. They carry out regular surveys on the status of the emergency and safety work in the municipalities. That's interesting reading, because there are some municipalities that don't do their job. This means that there are a good number of volunteers who are not allowed to participate in exercises and participate in the planning of preparedness and security in their own municipality. Eight out of ten municipalities are fortunately saying that they have carried out a risk and vulnerability analysis, which will form the basis for an emergency plan in the municipalities. But of the eight half say that they have not involved private actors or non-governmental organisations in that work. It says something about many non-governmental organisations not being allowed to participate in the planning process. So it's actually 8 pst. by the municipalities which do not have a comprehensive emergency plan. This is a serious signal that everyone is not ready. If possible, it's even worse at 8 pst. are not sure if they have a plan! The practice frequency is also quite different around the municipalities. That's 17 pst. of the municipalities that have not completed an exercise in the last four years. Once again, it says something about the challenges we face in training and being prepared. So I'm very happy that the Prime Minister says that there are a lot of instruments we have to go through here, and that it is important that we include the private and voluntary actors, because they are an important part of the preparedness and security of society. We politicians can't do ourselves the bear service and just put the responsibility on the public. There are so many actors to interact with, and there are so many resources to be put into action, that we are totally dependent on all the actors who can contribute taking part in the efforts that others here have had. Then we also have a job to do with structuring social security and public preparedness. It uses a lot of resources on the nationwide structure. I think we have an important task to do here also with using new technology and reducing the number of actors involved. In fact, it can also make it easier for part of the voluntary actors to participate in emergency work. But, as many people have been involved, practice does master, and one of the most important things we have to contribute to is that the volunteers get to participate in both planning and practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e396	First of all, I would like to thank so many of the big business representatives. It shows that this is important, and it makes me a little optimistic about getting something done in this area. Our entire welfare state is really based on virtue as a way of thinking, and it's not a new invention in Norway. The history teacher comes in here a little bit now: the virtue has been rooted in Norway as our insurance system and part of our social system ever since Harald Haarfager began to eradicate the clan system, which is the alternative social system of the virtues and welfare state we have built up together. I have my whole past in voluntary organizations before I entered this house, and I love words like ‘voluntary’ and ‘amateur’. The last thing that means you're a professional who just does something of pleasure. But it's important that we also have good concepts in which people feel included, and perhaps ‘unpaid professionals’, as Mr. Vegar Solhjell went on as an American concept, can be a good concept that shows that we value people. It is not possible, and it is not desirable for the public to make all the seams. But often we experience that the public is becoming marine enough and does not use the potential in people. Volunteers get alerted late. You are more concerned not to have too many than perhaps to have to send someone home if it turns out that you do not need them. Here, public needs to be much better, as well as the other things that have been brought forward today. Another point I want to make is the information work. It is clear that the information and recruitment work of very many of these organisations is just as important as the rescue work they do, and it is important for the attitudes of each of us to these challenges. So my challenge to the Prime Minister is that she takes into account the recordings that have come into this debate and gets a comprehensive review that clarifies responsibilities and framework conditions for this part of the preparedness in the years to come. It is necessary to ensure that the State and the public value set and use the potential of the volunteer properly. You have to have a funding that makes people feel that the job they do is valued. It should be a little hard to be an auxiliary worker. But also those who lead this from the state and public sectors must respect the job done, and sometimes management must also be able to be left to volunteers when the skills are in the right place. I think this has been a healthy debate to have, after all the debates we have had on the readiness of the other large public entities – healthy that we have been promised this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e413	Like the others, I would like to thank you for the debate. It has been interesting, and it shows the broad consensus on the importance of volunteering's contribution to the preparedness process. I think it is important to underline one thing that I said in my post, also in response to the left's representative, Mr. Kjeseth, who earlier here underlined the plans of the municipalities. It is the municipalities that have the responsibility to work on the ground in terms of preparedness in Norway at local level. And it's clear that the biggest challenge we have is when municipalities don't take that responsibility seriously. Therefore, it is a high priority to ensure that, in the follow-up work to the municipalities, our county councillors ensure that the emergency work is done. The key to the functioning of the interoperability principle is municipal planning. It is incredibly important to have an overview of resources and to practice and train. Fortunately, there were not so many municipalities that did not know whether they had plans or not, but there were actually too many initially. Building on the cooperative principle also means that we have to take care of the volunteer organisations in this. This means that they should be involved, as I said, in the preparatory work – that is, in the prevention work, in the crisis itself, and in the post-work. They shall be in the same line of practice and training and have the opportunity to evolve. Then it is also important that we make sure that we have good framework conditions. The government has several things at its level. One is to increase the gift allowance. In 2012, the gift allowance was within a limit of 2.5 billion. kr. Since its introduction in 2000, it has increased significantly. We have said that masterless inheritance should not go to the state, but to non-governmental organizations. We need to improve the VAT compensation system in these areas for voluntary organisations in general. Then we have to look in particular at the challenges the unpaid professionals are doing. There are stronger requirements for skills and knowledge for some of the operations carried out in the field of preparedness, and then it is important that the State looks at how to contribute – since voluntary organisations are scattered across the country and have many competences – that financial assistance is also provided to ensure that a high level of competence is provided in the way you implement, exercise and train. Overall, I would like to say that there are many things we are going to discuss about the voluntary organisations in the future. The representative, Solhell, thought there might be a NOU. I think maybe we should start doing the things in the pipeline first before we do. So it might be that we're going to go through this part of it as well. But making more investigations is actually not the most important thing we can do in the field of preparedness now. It is implementation according to the conclusions we have from the challenges and from the investigations that have been made, which may be the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e426	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e442	Norway has a good basic school with elephants as well as teachers with competence and professional pride. If the Norwegian school is to be brought forward, it is at the same time in place to address problematic issues. And this time, I think it's not the school, the teachers or the students that should be pointed at, but we ourselves – politicians – whether we're on the rise, in the county, or in local government. One of the strongest trends in Norwegian schools — testing, measuring and weighing — is created by politicians and bureaucrats, and the impact has gone so far as to challenge the distinction between politics and trades. I think the time is now ripe for a new orientation in school. Once not too long ago, Norwegian school lived in an innocent state. The big community took pride in the teachers, the schools were good, and the students and the teachers did their job. We didn't participate in international tests, we didn't have national tests, we didn't have inspectors coming to school to gather data or give good advice. At the end of the 1970s, we had a public selection that went through the testing of characters in Norwegian school. A central suggestion was that the entire Norwegian base ball should be character-free – the school should primarily be a place to learn, a place where a non-measured and ranked, but where the students were to grow up, flourish and become socialized. There was a closer link between the politicians and the educators' reality perceptions. The tradesmen simply meant that numbers and measurements were not in the school – grades only created losers – and the politicians were some of them in it. Still, and that's the way it always is, someone meant that we had a bad school, others we thought the world's best. Both sides had one thing in common, they couldn't refer to numbers, measurements, and data, it was just a question of trust. The ball was under the Ministry of Church and Education, which it was called at the time, today it is called the Ministry of Knowledge. In many ways, it's good that we're not where we were once. Many good and many things have happened correctly since that time. Figures and facts are important for changing strategies and reforms, but the schematic hysteria has taken off. Today, Norway is involved in most of the international tests available. We have received national tests, student surveys, innumerable forms of evaluation and reports. Teachers see that more and more time is involved in reporting and testing, less time for teaching and learning. When SV was in government, this was one of the first things we got hold of. From the fact that the national tests were to apply to everyone, as Clement wanted, we changed this to be selection samples. We simply didn't want the tests to be the goal of the school, but we wanted to be a traveler to understand. We already know where disciplinary tests, tests and measurements are at teaching in a negative sense. But today, when we see the comprehensive total of tests, tests and measurements that are applied to the school from so many different actors, I think it's time for a discussion if not the measurements have taken the school away from the original purpose, and about politicians and bureaucrats to far too much intervene in their daily lives. We have previously discussed the PISA effect at Norwegian school in this session. The same debate is relevant today. On top of him we see another strong development, which comes from the municipalities. In Sandefjord, the teachers recently rebelled. The initiators were two brave teachers, Marius Andersen and Joakim Bjerkely Volden. They're sitting in the gallery today. Teachers were required to fill thousands of ticks per class per year. Teachers refused to check the six-monthly assessments of the municipality of Sandefjord introduced in 2012. At first they were threatened with dismissal, but after an intense media debate, the insurgents had great sympathy, and the municipality has now gone back on the threats. I mean the Sandefjord uprising has been an important arouser in the school mat, because unfortunately, Sandefjord-saka is not unique. Municipalities like Oslo have taken him completely out and created their very own Oslo trials, among other things. twice as many mandatory tests as in non-own running municipalities. Many other municipalities have introduced, or are considering introducing, a similar type of system, and in particular the Right-Handled municipalities that are concerned with implementing this. Measurement and weighing are strong instruments that cannot demonstrate a positive effect on learning and development. It should therefore be seen as a necessary evil that must be used to a limited extent. The trend is that the measurements are ranked according to different levels of skill. In many cases I think this is a sneaking of characters in the school that is far beyond the line of what is allowed in the Training Act, or at least in the frontier country of what should be allowed. As one of the initiators of Sandefjord said to the magazine Education: «These forms are perceived as character systems. The check box shows only fragmented parts, and the leveling box puts the students in the booth: you're bad, and you're good. The students and parents are concerned about the crosses and not what the students have learned. We want to be respected for our professional judgement and cannot do anything that we believe is professional error and does not lead to motivation for learning." What makes Sandfjord-saka particularly serious is that the system is in place without the application for approval. There is therefore reason to ask how the Minister should prevent municipalities from introducing character-like systems, such as one in Sandefjord. Good, even feedback where the student gets feedback about how he is and what level of mastery he is at has a lot to say in the school, but grades and character-like measurements are a slow feedback that the research rejects as a learning promoter. They are mainly useful in determining access to further education and training. It is not measurement and weighing that promotes learning, on the contrary, external motivation as competition. On the other hand, measurement and weighing are home to learning, especially among the youngest students. If learning is the goal, the inner motivation must be stimulated, the inner drive of each individual student to discover a little more, be curious, and use knowledge in creative ways. When the right-hand side of the municipalities thinks that extensive use of student tests stimulates the student to learn more, that teachers teach better, that the publication of results enhances learning, and that commercial private schools are the dot over the i, there is no hold on it, rather on the contrary, it can harm the student, it can harm learning. SV therefore believes that we should direct Norwegian school from the focus on the external motivation of the students to the focus on internal motivation, from the focus on political bureaucratic control to the confidence of the educators in their professional assessments. It's taking knowledge seriously, which is not instrumentally implemented in the student. The object paragraph in the school I think is showing this vision. Here we find words such as ‘historical and cultural insight’, ‘respect for human dignity’, ‘spirit freedom’, ‘love love’, ‘equivalent’, ‘solidarity’, ‘democracy’, ‘equality’, ‘scientific way of thinking’, ‘scapargile’, ‘engagement’, ‘exploratory’. I think the purpose paragraph in the school is in stark contrast to the measuring hysteria that is now developing in the school. Unfortunately, she later became Prime Minister of Norway, Erna Solberg, in the election campaign last year – she underscored a promise – that when the Right came into government, a rise in the PISA investigation would occur. So the goal of the Norwegian school is measurement, not the purpose section. It seems that a commitment to learning needs to be facilitated through curiosity, innovation and creativity, not by an instrumental measure of your level of knowledge. This is also a lot of the background for SV in the red-green government to start and later expand the project Assessment for learning. Assessment as a learning promoter is of a completely different character than measurement and weighing that is intended to rank. When in-flight assessment is used to help elephants, apprentices and apprentices further in the learning process, we call it Appreciation for learning, a programme that SV introduced and strengthened. It's in stark contrast to the measuring hysteria. I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has decided that the project will continue. Perhaps this marks a reorientation of the Right's policy, which contrasts with the objective the Prime Minister formulated in the election campaign. Teachers, researchers and parents warn against an increased form and test regime in Norwegian school, and SV thinks it is time to reduce this strongly. That's why I ask: Is the Council of State in agreement with that, and what will he do to promote more knowledge-based and holistic forms of feedback?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e484	When it comes to testing, weighing and measuring, I think I want to start by saying, everything in a way. For a place in the middle of what the interpellant in a very interesting interpellation, and I hope it will be an interesting debate, called hysteria – hysteria is no reason to try to achieve, then it has largely gone too far – and the other ditch, which is perhaps best illustrated in this Prøysen-year of the history of the goat ticking that could count to ten, and met great resistance among several other animals because they were counted, is what is a sensible regime – a regime built on the confidence of the teachers in their pedagogical competence, while at the same time having some national tools and some national frameworks, which also makes it possible to have a committed and good local schooling policy. It is important just to remember the formal frameworks. Although there is an interpellation debate, it is good to remember that this is in Stortinget, and that we have a system in Norway that has been very long, where something is the responsibility of Stortingen and something is the responsibility of local democracy. The Storting has given municipalities and county councils the ownership responsibility for primary and secondary schools. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for ensuring that students are granted their rights under the Training Act. They are responsible for the financing of training, for school facilities, for quality assurance and quality development, for the proper and necessary competence in schools and for the necessary development of staff competence, which is important not least in view of the government's great educational commitment. Once the Stortinget has given school owners such authority – and that authority I see there is a very broad consensus in the Stortinget that you should not withdraw – it also means that there are some limitations on what I as the Council of State should go into in-depth assessments of. This applies, for example: the number of samples or the number of forms in specific municipalities, as long as they remain within the national frameworks. Since the interpellant mentioned the matter in Sandefjord, I nevertheless allow myself to say two things about it. One is that it is not a current policy to introduce this nationally in any way, and the other is that I think it was wise to go back in the municipality, along with the teachers, and try to find a unified solution. But I'm generally not a fan of regulating and controlling in detail. In fact, I believe it is important that local democracy also has a consequence. In the long term, it may also have adverse consequences if the State is to take responsibility for and impose requirements on the actors locally, while at the same time having little room for action and little authority. That point of local democracy, I guess, is that SV too, at least traditionally, has been a champion for. This means that while we have a clear national framework, we must accept and accept that different school owners have different solutions, although we do not always agree exactly on how this is implemented. The judgment of it and the ability to influence it lies in local democracy and in our local elections. That being said, it is important to say that the school owners have some very clear responsibilities and some very clear boundaries to deal with. One limit, which also took up the interpellant, is nice that I get a chance to repeat, that you shouldn't have grades at the nursery. That limit is not going to be moved by this government, it's going to pass. At present, there are no municipalities – zero – that have applied for trials with grades in primary school, and I have not intended to encourage any municipalities to apply for such tests. On the other hand, what we have discussed in this Chamber earlier, and which I still believe, like the majority in the Grand Duchy, is that it is important not to undermine the experimental provision of the Training Act, which has a long tradition, and which has stood well under varying governments and large-scale pluralities. It would be unreasonable to decide in advance, before applications have been made, on a political basis, who should have a yes and who should have a no. But it is important to say again that applications that come in must be well-founded, firmly anchored, and we must be able to learn some of the trials that are being started. I agree with the Knowledge Center for Education when they establish that a strong test regime that unilaterally focuses on grades weakens the motivation of both the weak and the creative students. If you have a feedback or assessment system in school that consists exclusively of a numerical character, something is not right. But then the question is, do we have a test regime in Norwegian school with a one-sided focus on grades, and has this test regime come in the last five months? That must be the premise of the representative’s interpellation — that in five months, a situation where SV had run the school for eight years and was therefore satisfied, has gone from a situation where it has now become a test regime or a test hysteria. If you look at the order in this, the natural conclusion is that if it's a test regimen, it's grown and thrived over the last eight years. At the same time, I believe it is important to say that we have no research evidence to say that we are living under a test regime or a test hysteria. Take a look at, for example: the evaluation of the Knowledge Commitment, which shows that the student assessment in the Knowledge Commitment has developed a common assessment culture in the school and that the student assessment is no longer seen as an individual matter for the individual teacher, but as a matter of joint cooperation, which is the responsibility of the professional community. Teachers describe that they pay more attention to student assessment, that they have changed their assessment practices, and that they pay more attention to providing students with concrete feedback. I think that makes sense and is important, and I think that is also an important reason why the Evaluation for Learning programme should continue. I want to give honor to the previous government for it to be started. That the state requires municipalities to carry out 14 mandatory screening tests and national tests during the 13-year initial training, I do not believe that we are making ourselves a test regime. I would also like to remind you that, as far as I know, the national samples are not sample samples. They were retained – in a slightly altered form and slightly altered numbers, but they were retained – and it was under the previous government that all the mandatory screening tests were introduced. It's also interesting to look at the results that are achieved. Oslo is often drawn up as an example. Since I'm not a local politician in Oslo, I'm not going to go into the details of how the municipal politicians who run the school, but that's interesting, for example. to see that Oslo achieves on average the best results on national samples in the country at both 5th and 8th stages, regardless of whether the students’ goals are billing, English or reading. Oslo live generally performs better than students in the country, when you check for a social background. The promise to the Norwegian school that we'll be able to give more help to and lift those who need it the most is given to you in Oslo more than many other places. Students with high-educated parents, low-educated parents, students with a Norwegian background and students with a migrant background perform better in Oslo than in the rest of the country. It's an important backtrace to bring with you. Finally, I agree with the representative Knag Fylkesnes that there is too much unnecessary paperwork in school, too many forms and too much bureaucracy – all in a way, including in terms of measurement, weighing and counting. I think it's important from a political point of view to be aware that you're not measuring for the sake of measurement, but for getting some control instruments and for getting an overview. If you measure too detailed, too much, or control too detailed, it's my reverential claim that you end up with instruments of control that are both extra intrusive for the teachers and for the school, and also give little real information that politicians can relate to. It simply risks becoming an ‘overload’. But it's worth taking that 94 pst. by the teachers of a survey carried out by the Education Association from August 2011, they fully or partially agreed with the claim that the teaching job is becoming increasingly bureaucratic. A big message about time use in school was submitted a few years ago. The government intends to follow up that big message, but we also intend to do more. We are concerned that the overall documentation and reporting requirements at school should not be too extensive. Teachers and principals need to spend their time on what they're best at, good teaching and management. This is why, together with KS, we have launched a joint project to review all reporting and documentation requirements at different levels in the school sector. We carry out a national study on the administrative and non-professional tasks associated with, for example: national tests, en-route assessment, special education, local forms, etc., both those for which the State is responsible and those for which the local school owner is responsible. The goal is to clean up – remove unnecessary bureaucracy, reduce the number of time thieves and have one important objective in mind: What contributes to the learning of students? We cannot eliminate the core school tasks, but we can eliminate unnecessary and useless documentation and reporting that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e514	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. It is interesting that the Minister brings out the results in Oslo School and says that Osloelevane performs better than the elephants in the country. The Oslo School is known for having enormous focus on tests, to spend a lot of time preparing the students for tests. Through this discipline, it is not surprising that one is good at testing. The whole point of my post was that this form of pedagogy, this form of learning ideology, is all around the world. We have to put in place a learning policy that facilitates what is desired here, a pedagogy that promotes learning, that promotes inner motivation. Then you won't be testing the only answer. It is therefore interesting to note that the minister places so much emphasis on the results in Oslo School that it might almost be interesting to ask if he intends to introduce that system throughout the country, because he was so impressed. I really mean it's going in the wrong direction. To that end with the test regime: My point was simply that when it comes to Sandefjord and Oslo, which are municipalities that are offensively investing in the use of testing, we are really talking about a test regime. I mean, nationally, we don't have a test regimen in Norwegian school. I think that the arrangements we have with the national tester make sense, but this is simply about the possibility that individual municipalities around have to carry out extensive testing. What I particularly drew up was the possibility one has – and as I think it is going over the line with regard to the law – to introduce tests that go on chords with the training law, where one has a three-step arrangement and should check whether the student belongs in that box, in that box or in that box. At least for me, this is -- when one has three steps -- a pretty strong characterization of the students. When this applies to the youngest students, one has actually crossed the line. The special thing here is that the scheme one had in Sandefjord wasn't approved by anyone. It was not a test that was approved by the department; it was something that the municipality only carried out itself. Now, if you start to dive a little deep into Oslo School, I'm sure – I know – that you will find character-like states there as well. If it is important to avoid getting character-like conditions without this having been approved or one having tried a test scheme, I think it should be a very serious matter for the minister responsible for this field. So if evolution is such that municipalities can operate and introduce character-like conditions, introduce extensive testing, and if it's not similar to a test regime, for which we should all be concerned, we've probably left what's meant in the Norwegian school, and which was consensually agreed by the Storting a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e529	Discussing Oslo School is an interesting political debate, but when we discuss it here, we have to deal with the big business of big business, and what is the Ministry of Knowledge's task as a department of knowledge. First of all, it is relevant to point out the results around the different schools. I think it's an important rug. The second is the authority of the State. I may be wrong now, but I don't think the Oslo School has introduced any new tests in the last five months. We haven't changed the legislation in any way in the last five months. That is, the municipality of Oslo uses the same option now as they had before the decision to raise a stake and before the government change. I saw that there was political disagreement also in the previous period, but I saw no one in the Stortinget or from the previous government who suggested that somehow you should ban the municipalities here – or have a maximum that was set nationally on the number of samples you should have. The reason for this is very simple: we have said that the school owner is responsible for developing his local school. And then they have to deal with national frameworks. If you think that those frames are broken, you have to make a case out of it, and then it's the right way to go through County, I'll assume, but the starting point here is that the school owner has a responsibility. School owners have great opportunities to shape their school as you wish. And regardless of what you might think about the political instruments we use in Oslo, the results are as I said. The results are that Oslo is able to achieve greater social cohesion in its school system than almost all other countries in Norway. I think that is also important to bring with me in this discussion. Then I fully agree that we need to take a critical review of bureaucracy, paperwork and time thieves in school. That is why I have put full pressure on – and this government has put full pressure on it after we entered the department – that we should clean up. One of the problems is that it's not really the state regulation that's the big challenge. A lot of time thieves and a lot of bureaucracy have their origins either at school or locally at school. Here we are in the process of a large survey, and then we will see how we can manage to follow it up – of course in cooperation with the school owners, with the school staff and with the teacher organisations, who are also very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e538	I am pleased that the representative of Knag Fylkesnes is raising this debate. We have discussed earlier in this room both attempts at grades in high school and other issues dealing with assessment. When we discussed trials with grades in high school, there was a debate in which some of us tried to find out that we need to have a knowledge-based approach to what test regimes and assessment forms we have in school. In addition, several of us had a few weeks later questions in the Questionnaire about just the evaluation regime in Sandefjordskolan, which the interpellant also addresses. It was also a matter that got a lot of media attention – an assessment regime that, having heard the debate in this room after the Question Time, was obviously on a collision course with what is the intention of this room, the legislator's intentions. The debates on these issues both here and outside have made me a little concerned, concerned that we might be developing a little bit too narrow a school, a school that gets too focused on what is to be measured and evaluated. Motivation and learning are closely linked. Research shows that student rating systems based on ranking can be de motivating on learning. This was one of our main arguments against the introduction of grades in high school. We're not going to take this whole debate again, but it's interesting to see that the motivation for Norwegian school students falls into high school age. I agree with the representative of Knag Fylkesnes when he says it is time to review the form and test regime in Norwegian school. That doesn't mean we're against national tests. That doesn't mean we're opposed to local self-government. But that means that we are concerned about trends that we see in Norwegian school, among other things. in Sandefjord, and it must be allowed to discuss whether it is possible to limit the type of situation that is manifestly contrary to the intentions of this Chamber. It's about taking a discussion about what we're going to spend time in Norwegian school, the time this spring until those degrees have proven is a scarce resource in our school. And we can draw up research reports in huts and torments, but it's really not necessary, because we never agree with that kind of research debate, anyway. Let's ask each other one question: what do we evaluate and test for? We're not testing first and foremost for VG to know if it's the best or the worst school. Nor do we test first and foremost to be satisfied at the system level. We test because we want the student to learn as much as possible. We're testing that the teacher knows what steps he or she's going to take in order for the students to learn even more. We test to provide targeted feedback to students and parents, so they know how to work together for learning to happen. I think if you put 20 teachers in line and ask them if they have control of their students and what level they are at, all teachers will answer yes. I think one gets almost the same answer if one asks the students if they know what level they're at in the different subjects. I think the main problem is that the teachers feel that they have no capacity and time in their everyday lives – time to guide and motivate, time to learn – to do enough with what they know, with the knowledge they actually have about their students. That's why I think the question from the representative of Knag Fylkesnes is a good one. What we think we need to focus on is time for learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e549	The representative, Knag County, addresses two important themes in his interpellation. One goes on what he describes as a comprehensive system of measurement in the school sector of the Right- Controlled Municipalities, exemplified by Osloskolen and Sandefjordskolen. This has been addressed by the Council of State in its reply to Knag County. That's an important question, but we have a slightly different approach to the debate. Our main task is to make sure that the school gives all students the opportunity to succeed. If we are to have knowledge in school, we must have knowledge of the school. This is something the Right has been busy for a long time. This means that we need a national framework, something the Minister of Knowledge has been involved in. At the same time, school owners must have the freedom to develop the school locally, in line with their needs. In that case, it would be contrary to its intention to govern the details centrally which action space they should have locally. We must have confidence that the school owners will have the best possible school for their students. The second, and more fundamental, question Knag County travels, is related to what can be done to promote a more knowledge-based and holistic form of feedback in school. It's an important question, but it's complicated. The literature and debate in the trade unions confirm this. Evaluation at school is not an exact science. There is a great deal of professional effort to acquire knowledge about different evaluation methods and how they work, and we need more knowledge in this area. We had a recent debate in this room on testing schemes in school, as several have been involved. Then there was a broad consensus not to restrict the home of locally initiated trials. One of the strengths of the Norwegian school has just been that we have allowed schemes and practices with pilot schemes in addition to what has been national policies. This can also be seen in different forms of evaluation. But it requires a culture where this is viewed as positive. It's not long since we had a debate about grades and attempts with grades in the fifth grade – which was rejected in cash by Knag Fylkesnes and his party, with a argument that we know enough about this. I disagree. We cannot reject such attempts on a general basis. It does not promote new knowledge. Today, we know that good evaluation in schools is not just about numbers, letters and grades, verbal evaluation forms in writing and orally – it's just as much about the culture we develop for evaluation in schools, about combinations of different evaluation methods. Evaluation is about making demands, following up, documenting and, above all, creating opportunities for change. That is why John Hattie is in his book ‘Synthetic Learning’, published by Cappelen Damm in 2013, among others. occupied by the teacher as an agent of change. One of the themes addressed in the book is building capacity and motivation for improvement in school — in classrooms and in individual students. But if Norwegian school is to move on in this area, it is going to take place both in the trade debate and in the political debate about bringing together the important issues at school, i.e. the issues that are most relevant to the learning environment and the learning outcomes of the students. I think Christian Thinning Bjørnø's questions about what we evaluate for are central in that context. I would like to have a debate on that further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e570	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Fylkesnes, for having raised an important debate. The representative's interview refers to a study commissioned by the Knowledge Centre for Education, and we are invited to discuss several different topics. Interpellation attempts with grades in school, which was discussed extensively in this room not long ago, and where the majority of the population ended up stating that the rights of municipalities and counties to self-government in the school sector are established, and that the majority of people in the school population accept pilot projects with open arms. In the case of pilot projects with grades in primary school, the Council of State indicated that work is now being done on the criteria to be used to allow pilot projects to be carried out. The Progress Party is looking forward to testing grades in primary school, not least because we know that many students get so-called character shocks when they get to high school, where they get grades. We also know from various studies that there is a weak feedback culture in school, and that in many cases students do not get a true feedback on their performance. I refer again to the study, which intends to find out what motivates the students. Several studies show that it is important that parents and teachers have expectations and are committed and supportive to their children. At the same time, they must be careful not to be uncritically supportive of what young people are going to learn. Given that in Norwegian school we do not have experience in providing numerical characters with relevant feedback and in-flight assessment, the Progress Party looks forward to the pilot project, and we hope that many schools will participate, so that we have a good basis for measuring the impact of grades along with feedback. In the case of tests and tests, the Progress Party considers that they have no purpose if the results are not used to improve the knowledge of the individual student. The part of progress is subject to tests and tests when used as a tool to provide constructive and real feedback for the benefit of individual learners. The school has many important and good learning goals. The most important thing in school is to learn how to read, write and calculate. If it's not in place, it's impossible to get any further. To see if the students master these basic skills, tests, tests and a constructive feedback culture are actually necessary. I think it is positive that the representative Knag Fylkesnes, on behalf of SV, who has actually been sitting with the Minister of Knowledge for eight years, believes that it is now time to reduce the time thieves that the form field in the school is. This is something the Progress Party has long wanted to do, even in the eight years SV sat with the Minister of Knowledge. That's why we're very pleased that there's been some work going on to identify which tests, forms and tests contribute to a better school. The Progress Party will have a more knowledge-based and comprehensive feedback culture in the school. That is why we support various trials at school, and therefore we want to strengthen continuing education, including increasing the competence of teachers in classroom management. The study to which Knag Fylkesnes refers points out that this will have a significant impact on students' benefits. In an interview on the website research.no, Professor Terje Manger at the University of Bergen says that research shows that one is important with tests: ‘The tests provide motivation for some students. Tests are also important to measure school progress and learner development. Nevertheless, at the same time as using such tests, attention must be paid to providing students with feedback on their own progress in learning. In this way, the student may be able to evolve from his or her own level.’ At the same time, he warns against a strong test regime that focuses unilaterally on grades, as it weakens the motivation of both the weak and the creative students. That warning ends with the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e597	I would also like to thank the interpellant for having an important debate. I share his concern that there may be too much testing and measurement in school. Clearly, it is important to have knowledge about what is going on in school and also about the quality of the contents of the school. But it is equally important that the measurement and testing are allowed to remain a tool, and that these different tests are not to be the only premiscuous provider for how to develop our school in the future. If the goal was to score as high as possible on the PISA test, I think we could do it with quite simple tools, but then we would have risked losing a lot of value on the way. It is also important to remember that these tests do not give a complete picture of what is going on in school. At the same time, it is important that students and parents get feedback along the way, but here I agree with the interpellant that grades in high school are not the right way to do it. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State is so clear that it is not relevant for the government to introduce grades in high school during this period. The council says "everything in fashion" when he talks about measurement, and he admits that there are a lot of forms in the school. But now it's not just the students who have to be tested and evaluated. Now it is also necessary to evaluate the teaching and teacher's efforts in the classroom. In 2014, the Council of State promised students the right to evaluate their education. I believe this implies an introduction of even more testing and measurement in school. I believe that this means undermining the confidence of the teachers as professional professionals when we leave the evaluation to 16- to 18-year-old students, and I am confident that it will help to introduce even more forms in the Norwegian school. I trust that teachers and school leaders will be able to make proper professional judgements, and that they have the knowledge and competence to do the best they can to facilitate education. It's not necessarily that the teachers who manage to make themselves the most popular of the students are the best teachers. I also trust that the teachers will be able to give students and parents feedback along the way without using grades or character-like measurements for the children in high school. But that assumes that teachers get time to be teachers. Then we have to work to limit the form field and not make it even bigger. Therefore, I believe that introducing a right to an education evaluation in high school is a bad idea, and therefore I am glad that the Council of State shares the reality picture both between the interpellant and I have of that there are a lot of forms and a lot of testing in Norwegian school today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e610	Let me first thank the interpellant, Knag Fylkesnes, for producing this interpellation, so that the Stortinget has the opportunity to debate target management and the use of feedback in school. Not so many weeks ago, we had a corresponding round in Question Time, where the signatures and several other representatives asked questions about the developments we see taking place in the school, based on the situation in the municipality of Sandefjord. Unfortunately, Sandefjord is not alone in his eagerness to weigh and measure to such an extent as has been mentioned earlier from this pulpit. Over several years we have seen increasing target management in the school, as in the public sector otherwise. Based on feedback from despairing parents and not least learners, there is good reason to look critically at this development. The point of target management is to check the quality of teaching and to ensure that the goals set for the school are actually achieved. But is that what's happening in reality? Magnus Marsdal has, as you know, taken the situation in the Oslo ball and concludes that the right forces are developing a school of major differences, and that a priority is what gives the best results in the measuring instrument. He claims that the school that was then the knowledge bureau in Oslo, Torger Ødegaard, was burning for, even up like a façade ball and not a knowledge school. We know target management works in many contexts, but it also has its side effects. What's being measured is what gets attention, what's not being measured, is being down-prioritized. This concern is shared by several stakeholders, including: the recognizable school scientist Peder Haug, who warns against the testing hysteria in the school. If you read the results of such tests with too strong a lens, there is a risk that the result will be oversized, and one may fear that all the tests and tests the students will have to pass will cause the schools to be more occupied with good test results than with good instruction. The great space for action to be given by the Knowledge Lift, and the confidence shown by the teacher through control at large, are, in effect, strongly underpinned by the new test regime. The price of freedom is that the authorities evaluate to a greater extent whether the target has been reached, in an attempt to check the quality, but the sum and arrangement of the quality system is not, in the opinion of the Centre Party, the quality tests. For what has happened? We've got an entire conglomerate of evaluation schemes at all levels. Keywords are national tests, national screening tests, local screening tests, detailed in-flight assessments, examination and central level supervision of the State. In addition, a number of strategy plans, leadership contracts, target management systems and assessment schemes come at municipal and county level, not to mention the international tests that measure our students for another year. Is it that we've lost control of the control system? In any case, there is every reason to focus critically on the totality and to examine the effect and benefit of this measurement system. A comprehensive test culture does not receive much support in the systematic literature review to which the representative also refers. The same applies to the use of characters at childhood, which some Right-Handed municipalities want to start testing. The research shows that the use of characters in learning contexts has limited value; in some cases, the use of characters can actually prevent learning by de motivating students, especially the most professionally weak. Students who depend on professional development need clear and regular feedback that gives them good information about what they are doing and what they are doing to master better. There are such feedback messages that help to increase students’ learning outcomes. Elves who struggle professionally will often develop a negative view of their ability to learn. Therefore, the quality of the professional feedback to these students is particularly important. The centre party is a supporter of a knowledge-based knowledge policy and will listen to researchers and teachers. Students shall have a clear, smooth and systematic in-flight assessment, but not in the form chosen in Sandefjord, where the curriculum aim is broken down in detail and transferred to a form of 65 different measurement ranges. Everything by way, the council said here. That's what divides the Center Party. Should the school impart knowledge, we need to be sure that time use and feedback promote learning and motivation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e630	First, I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question and give us the opportunity to discuss it here in Stortinget. The left has been clear that we're against grades in high school. It's, as the interpellant also says, because research shows that it doesn't have the desired effect among the younger students, and especially among those who work a little bit more than others at school. This is a discussion we've already had, and I'm glad the Council of State has been very clear that it's not relevant to introduce grades in high school. So I'm not going to go up the whole discussion again, but it's important for learning. It also says interpellant, that assessment related to learning is important as part of teaching and thus a very important part of a teacher's work. So the interpellant draws out two right-hand-driven municipalities and uses two examples from there. If the definition of being a Right- Controlled Municipality is that you have a Right-Rapporteur, I am also from a Right- Controlled Municipality, Stavanger Municipality. But there we've gone the other way. There we said yes, we have some central tests that are required for us to carry out, but then we've actually also decided over the years that we should have some local tests. We got a lot of feedback that there's too much testing, there's too much bureaucracy in school, so what do we do with it, we thought. Then we decided politically that from now on we should not have any locally determined tests. This does not mean that schools themselves should not be allowed to have them, if they see the benefits of them, but from a political point of view it should not be mandatory to have local tests. Although we did, it is unfortunately not that the teachers out there felt that the administrative burden, or the test burden, became easier. We get feedback from Stavanger, but also from other municipalities in the country that there is a lot of testing, and not least that there is a lot of bureaucracy. Therefore, the test regime is only a small part of a much larger debate, the bureaucracy debate. We in the Left have been very concerned that we need to bring down the bureaucracy. Unfortunately, we get feedback that, on the contrary, it has increased in recent years, when SV has had the Minister of Knowledge. We've been clear that we need to set some targets for what we want to reduce. We can, for example: say we're going to reduce our administrative bureaucracy by 25 pst. in school and then start working from there and cut what we don't need. I am pleased that the Council of State is taking this into account and will look at where we can cut the total administrative burden. I would also encourage the Council of States to be concrete in the objectives that they want to achieve, so that we actually get a reduction in our bureaucracy. But it's also about other things. It's about relieving the teachers, so they can have time to do the job that it is to be a teacher, among other things. to evaluate and provide feedback to their students. For example, this is a case in point. about more health sisters, so you can be a teacher instead of a health sister. It's about getting administrative staff, who can take care of the administrative tasks, so teachers can have time to spend with their students. So this is a little debate in a very big debate. What I also think is important when we have this debate is that we show the teachers confidence – trust that they know best how to teach their students, and that they know how to give feedback that gives the students inspiration and something to look for, so that they evolve and get better all the way. We have to show that trust centrally, but we also have to have it locally. When we in Stavanger politically cut local tests, we said anyway that if there are teachers out there, if there are principals out there, who believe that it is necessary to have a reading test to identify where the students are, to use that test to see what they are going to do in order for the students to get better, if there is a need for it in the individual school, we need to have confidence that they need that test, and let them do it. When we're discussing this, we always have to remember that it's the teacher who knows best where the shoe prints. They meet their students every single day and see what they need to move on and get better. Then we must actually dare to give them that trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e656	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for raising an interesting debate. This is a debate that I don't think we should be afraid to take. But it's also quite interesting to see how Norwegian school and school debate can swing a bit like a pendulum. It is recalled that at the beginning of the 2000s it was discovered that Norwegian school was not good. It had been believed for very many years that Norwegian school was good, because we used the most in the world, and because we had scored well on studies in the past. This indicated, therefore, that Norwegian school was good. When international surveys revealed the opposite, what was called a PISA shock in Norway. It created a difficult debate. But some of it that it revealed was also that we did not know what it was like, and it was quite serious. For this reason, the national samples were given for high-level protests by the representative of the Knag Fylkesnes Party. That's why you also got some local samples. For example, Oslo introduced something called the Oslo test. What the Oslo test did, for example. to reveal in a primary school that 70 pst. by the students were below the critical limit in reading. What could the City Council in Oslo do? Well, then they could put in the resources needed to raise that school. And two years later, it was only 17 pst. by the students in this school who scored below the critical limit. I'm also very concerned about combating time thieves in school. I am also very concerned that you should not have too much bureaucracy. But it must not be confused with the fact that school owners and parents also have a right to information about how things stand. And then the interpellant refers to, as it says in the interpellation, a long series of tests. Well, if we're going to discuss this, I think you actually have to be a little bit concrete. What Oslo tests is it that the representative of the Knag County believes that the Minister of Knowledge should ban? Next year, there's municipal elections in Oslo. Then the Workers' Party, SV, the Green Party or whoever it may be, can go to the elections to throw the City Council and then go to the elections to change the Oslo School and say which tests to remove, which studies should be removed if they take over power. They also did so in 2011 – then they went to the elections to turn down on Oslo School, but the voters rejected it. In the election campaign next year, all municipalities will be able to run election campaigns on which tests to remove. What is happening in Oslo School, for example, and which has been brought forward by the representative Krag County’s party as a bureaucracy, is that parents in elementary school are told how their children are in the subject, whether they are either en route or mastering the subject. If you are to have a school policy based on knowledge, you must also have knowledge of the school you are discussing, not only in the classroom, but also around the kitchen table at home, and also in the city government and local government hall. The legislation currently governed by the Minister of Knowledge is exactly the same as that of the previous government. This means that there has been no change in policy in this area since there was a change in government. The question is then whether there is something that SV will gradually take the initiative to do something about. Finally, I just want to say that we're going to listen more, I think, than what we've done, to the teachers at school in these things as well. If teachers state that there are studies and tests that are not intended and that are not used to get more information about school and more knowledge into school, then it is tests that should be discussed. But it is still a little unclear which tests it is the representative of Knag Fylkesnes will have gone away, and what tests it is he believes that the Minister of Knowledge should nationally remove from the local self-government. I would recommend that both the SV, the Workers' Party and other parties who wish to take over the power of Oslo after the elections, go to elections on it in 2015 instead of suggesting that the Minister of Knowledge should clean it up before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e677	Thank you to the interpellant for having a very important debate. The starting point for the debate is that many teachers say that they spend too much time testing and documentation on student assessment. It is said by the Council of State that only five months have passed, and that this is not a new problem, and that is so far true. For this was also an area where the red-green government was very busy. The time selection was reduced in 2008, the report came in 2009, followed by a separate survey report, Time for learning, just to reduce the time theft in the school. The question is what to do in order to make more effective use of the time spent by teachers. The time-use selection made a number of recommendations at both central and local level, and their mandate was to take action to red tape the school and ensure that the time-use was directed towards education and learning. The Council of State's response here today underlines that there are limits to what he can go in and in detail rule, and that local democracy must have its consequences. I think he spent a lot of time in his post minimizing his own responsibility for follow-up to the Storing Message. Local self-government is referred to, and it is said that there will be a monitoring with KS. The last thing is positive. The centre party is a hot defender of local self-government and local democracy, but one should be careful to make local democracy a bad excuse. I think it's a great arrangement we have in Norway, where we have a minister of knowledge who has it overseen the responsibility for how the school in Norway should and must develop. If one thinks that there is going in the wrong direction, that there is too much testing, and that the teachers are not allowed to do their job, then one must also take responsibility nationally. It is also a small paradox that both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left raised criticism of the Red-Green Government when it dealt with the big message, so that we put too much emphasis on the local level and too little on the national level when it came to the responsibility for the time thief in the school. In a comment on the big news, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left said that: ‘the main challenge in relation to time thieves in school — [[...]] What is important is that we give teachers greater freedom and trust in their pedagogical assessment and that they themselves will find out what are good ways of working, evaluation procedures, documentation procedures, etc. State councils have the right to strike a balance between what is called a measuring hysteria and what is necessary, supporting monitoring to ensure good and organized education. But if one thinks there's too many tests, one has to do something about it. When the Time Selection presented its setting, they suggested that clear monitoring and documentation requirements be introduced and that school owners should be detained with local requirements for monitoring and documentation beyond the requirements of the Training Act. That's what's important. When the Council of State says that it should map the scope together with KS, it has to map the extent of the number of municipalities that go beyond the regulations, and he has to consider doing something about it. This was not followed by the government from the Time Usage Selection, but it is this discussion that is now coming back to Storting. Finally, I'm completely opposed to characters in the children's ball. I doubt whether there should be a part of the testing scheme in the school based on the mandate for what might be a trial in the school. If it is introduced, parents must be able to apply for an exemption from their child. So it's like many of the tests involve character-like assessments. We know if our child is at a, b, or c level on national tests. I have received feedback that my child is above or below the average. I'm not interested in hearing about it, I want to hear about the developments in relation to the ones themselves, not how they are compared to an average in the class.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e701	I would first like to thank you for many good contributions to the debate. Very much of what has been said, I can also join. Time is a review tone in this debate. It was the then knowledge minister Bård Vegar Solhjell who put down the time thief project that led to the Time Usage Selection, which Kristin Halvorsen took over, and which is now being carried forward by the current minister, and which is warned to come during December this year. Then I expect that we will have a big debate during the next spring. That's why I kept it away this time. We are all opposed to bureaucracy and management systems, and then we can discuss the degree of contrast to what we are. At least I'm enormously opposed to it. Then there is something that has been a little skeptical in this debate. The actuality here is the Sandefjord uprising. There the teachers reacted because they felt that they gave grades to the students, that they were putting them in booths, and that this was not educational. This is new. I have also listened from my own home country, from my own town, Tromsø – less than five months ago – that attempts at this kind of initiative in school have also been made there. I also get messages from parents in the school in Oslo about the same thing. This is new. Then I thought it was quite passive for the minister to say that the legislation was the same half a year ago, so why should one react now? We are working on this in my own party, and there is reason to believe that there is now an escalation in character-like conditions in Norwegian school, and trials for which it has not been sought approval. There's a reason to take it seriously. Even if one is contrary to the Training Act, which sets clear boundaries for starting with characters, one should at least follow the law and ensure that there is a control system, which Ivar Odnes was in, that can follow. It must be the minimum measure. Then I'm very happy that not all Right-Handed municipalities are like this, among other things. Stavanger has gone a new way. That's what I thought was great, and it just nuances the discussion. But it is not possible to jump under the chair that it is especially in Right-Controlled municipalities that this drive is strongest. And that's not surprising. It's just to look in the application to the right, you can see it. So the representative Asheim asks the question, what is the test? I can only simply say all of the samples that put small children in booths. Start by removing them. Map them, find them, remove them, because it is simply not allowed by the law of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e716	I would like to say a thousand thanks for an exciting and interesting debate. It is good to see that many people are concerned that we should not have too much detail management in school. I fully agree with that. That's why we're also in the process of following up that work. Then there are two things I want to comment on. One is educational assessment. The school owner has an obligation to assess education. What we have proposed is that the students should be included in that assessment. I think it is quite natural to ask the students for advice when assessing education. And we've done it in a way that's not going to make a new central form. We've said that at school, you have to make sure that students are involved in assessing the learning environment and education – we're tightening up the regulation a little bit there – but then the schools are going to have to find their own ways of doing it, so you can do it the way it is best locally. The second is what the representative of Fylkesnes said that you could start with all the tests that put students in the booth. I'm a little bit unsure of what that means. Let me give you an example: today we have screening tests in 1st, 2nd and 3rd classes. These screening tests are there because we're going to discover which students need extra help and follow-up. And of course, you can turn it through a rhetorical grip and say it's putting students in a booth. Well, for me, it's a pretty important tool to be able to adapt the teaching to those who need the most school, to those who need extra support in reading, to those who want to crack a math code. I'm for that. I think that's important. We must not get into the ditch that we are discussing measurement, weighing and counting without bringing with us the most important thing, namely a knowledge school that teaches the children what they are going to do. It is the most important investment we can make in terms of both social cohesion and competitiveness for Norway, and for individuals, that we should have the opportunities we want for the rest of our lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e725	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e739	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e748	Even for a representative who has no excessive faith in or confidence in the European Union, it is a pleasure to be able to present this matter on behalf of a unanimous and unanimous committee. I am also pleased that we have dealt with this matter as quickly as we have done, and before the decision has been taken in the EEA Committee, so that we can become full members as early as possible, and participate in the first round – where the first funds are distributed on 3 June. Erasmus+, which is the EU programme for education, training, youth and sport, was formally adopted by the EU last December and will last from 1 January to the end of 2020. The new programme shall bring together the previous education programmes, the youth programme and a new sport component in order to promote a holistic perspective. In addition, the programme has some new components related to third country cooperation. There's no automation in that we're going to participate in those programs. First of all, we have to feel that we're getting something left over for the approx. Three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three. kr we pay in quota during the period. Secondly, it must open doors that would not have been opened without participation. One of the reasons why we unanimously join the proposition is the results of the previous round and the previous program. Cross-border cooperation and contact are important for the quality of Norwegian education and research, which we will discuss in a few minutes. The Lifelong Learning Action Programme, LLP, has been crucial for the achievement of many of the objectives of internationalisation in recent years. More than 40,000 Norwegian teachers, students, apprentices, students and others have resided in another European country, and more have participated in project cooperation. Participants from Europe have also been in Norway or working with Norwegian project partners. This builds valuable networks and gives each key competence. 7 000 students and 2 750 teachers and employees in higher education have left. A total of 18 500 foreign students have come to Norway on in-depth scholarships, and the number is increasing — fortunately. Further training of teachers has been and will also be an important part of the programme. It contributes to professional development, changes in working methods, and it has helped to open doors to new professional networks and professional communities. The main objective of the programme, the leading star itself, is to contribute to a knowledge-based economy in the EU, including: by providing a solid basis for innovation in society and strengthening partnerships between the education sector, youth work and the labour market. The Programme shall contribute to increased cultural and language understanding, tolerance and respect for other people and cultures. One of the main changes from previous programmes, at least it seems to be signed, is that educational institutions should contribute more to promoting innovation, entrepreneurship, growth and employment. It is and will be crucial for Europe and us to get up from a pleasure that we have been through in recent years. When it comes to the programming structure itself, it is divided into three main actions: learning mobility, cooperation for innovation and ‘good practice’ and support for policy development and reform. In Erasmus+, training measures will represent the clearly highest proportion of the budget, with more than 77 pst. of the funds — with the highest level of support for higher education. Youth activities get 10 pst. and sport 1,8 pst. In Norway, the Centres for Internationalisation of Education will manage the main part of the programme, while the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family will manage the part of the programme that has the sector name Active Youth. Erasmus+ is a good thing for Norway. Cooperation across borders is not just important; it is vital for Europe and we to be able to realise the knowledge society and for us to be able to create the knowledge economy that we all agree we should have. When national targets go hand in hand with international targets, we are able to get the best results. I hope and believe that – and we – also here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e776	It would be directly misleading to say that this debate and voting in this matter is a ‘cliffhanger’, that is, a story with dramatic and exciting endings. In this case, all parties agree – and that is good. Norway is becoming increasingly dependent on contact with the world around us. When young people, students and teachers connect, master other languages better and expand their horizons, we are better at international competition. The active participation of Norway in European cooperation offers a wide range of opportunities, and it is a strength for Norway. The key is that Norwegian institutions and Norwegian businesses themselves are on the road and use the opportunities provided by Erasmus. The results since 2007 indicate that they have done so and that the programmes have been effective. As the rapporteur also pointed out, over 40,000 Norwegian teachers, students, apprentices and students have been living in another European country only through the Lifelong Learning Action Programme. 7 000 students have travelled on exchange. 2 750 teachers and employees have left, and many foreign students have come to Norway. At the top of this, there are also other programs. It is a strength for Norwegian education and sport that there is agreement that we should participate actively in such programmes. It is also a strength that the parties are expected to be involved at an early stage in order to ensure that the Erasmus programme is optimised. Therefore, in the light of this spring's roughness debate, I will conclude by commending the rapporteur. I am not going to distribute hearts or smiles – it is not fitting in a big debate – but I would just like to commend the rapporteur on the matter, who, for example, has built bridges internally in the committee and avoided the disagreements and disputes that could have arisen so that we can stand together today, for the benefit of countries and peoples.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e791	The next and last recorded speaker is the State Councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. We'll hope the idyll lasts!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e796	It is tempting to say «likes» – but I will not. I would like to thank the Stortinget and, not least, the Committee for the urgency of this matter. It is very important, because it means – given the reading in the EEA Committee as well – that Norwegian applicants can participate in the first calls for funds on 3 June. I'm not going to spend time going through all the benefits of Erasmus+ and the new enhanced Erasmus+, but I want to say a few words about what's going on. Of course, when we take on such a commitment as this and we participate in a programme, it also presupposes that we have an active policy to make it known and to disseminate information about it in the institutions. We need a thorough information work across the country. Centres for the Internationalisation of Education manage the part of the programme that deals with education and sport – up to 90 pst. of the program. They are already doing good information work and seminars around the country. I have also asked Siv Jensen to analyse regularly and consistently the Norwegian participation and impact of this, so that we can get good statistics and have a good knowledge base on the Norwegian participation as a starting point for further development of the policy in this area. It is also important to encourage institutions to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the Programme, perhaps in particular in the strategic partnerships and knowledge alliances, which will also be promoted centrally. It is important that we provide good returns on those funds. We also have to have clear ambitions for more people to use the program. Universities, high-forestry, schools and youth organisations need to take advantage of the opportunities offered by Erasmus+, and more than today need to make use of the programme, so that we can get full pay for the increased quota. Finally, calls will also be made to allow the Programme countries — including Norway — to participate in policy development projects at authority level, for example. in the case of apprentices. Here the government has an ambition that we need to be even better at participating, including at authority level, for example. through the Vox and Education Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e818	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e832	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e841	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its good and effective cooperation in this important matter. While it has not been given full support to an EU debate in the Grand Duchy, in terms of research cooperation through the EU Framework Programme, it is fortunately unanimous. In this case, which is about giving consent to participation in a decision of the EEA Joint Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement on Regulation No. 1291/2013 in the EU, establishing Horizon 2020 - the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, all parties fully agree. In other words, in this case we are fully committed to the EU's eighth framework programme for research. We believe that Norwegian participation in the EU Framework Programme Horizon 2020 will contribute to providing Norwegian research environments and businesses with access to relevant knowledge and networks of international researchers and institutions. Since the 1980s, Norway has been participating in the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development, and since 1994 we have participated fully on the basis of the EEA Agreement. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to stress that we believe that participation of this type of programme is of great importance to Norwegian research, and we believe that it is a matter of course that Norway should participate in Horizon 2020. On behalf of the government parties, I would like to say that it is stated in the government platform that we are going to work for, and stimulate, the internationalisation of research, for example through participation in the EU Framework Programmes. And why did we say that? One of the most important projects of the government is to implement a great deal of knowledge. It is because knowledge is essential to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness and build the country for the future. A strong commitment to research, through both the public and private sectors, will provide the basis for future jobs in a globalised world. One of the main priorities of Norwegian research and innovation policy is internationalisation, and Horizon 2020 will be the main instrument for the internationalisation of Norwegian research and innovation. Furthermore, Horizon 2020, the world’s largest research programme, is made up of three main components: excellent research, industrial leadership and research related to major societal challenges. The three strands correspond very well with the national research priorities, which are increased quality in research and innovation, increased value creation and knowledge to meet major societal challenges. This is a major decision to make, not least because it is a major financial liability for Norway. The total is between 17 and 18 billion. kr for the entire programming period, ranging from 2014 to 2020. I believe that as a nation, we have everything to gain from participating in Horizon 2020: It will help to build up scientific quality. It will increase access to both the European and global markets and thus strengthen our competitiveness. It will provide access to major research networks, infrastructure and mobilisation mechanisms. It will give us a unique arena to strengthen cooperation with actors outside Europe as well. In order to succeed, we have to expect Norwegian research communities and businesses to see what great opportunities there are for participation, and we expect mobilization work to be done, so that even more people benefit from investing their own resources in looking for funds in the framework programme to win projects. The government has high ambitions for Norwegian research, and one of the prerequisites for success is that we succeed in our participation in the EU Framework Programme. There are an infinite number of opportunities out there when we facilitate Norwegian research environments and businesses. The adoption of this matter today will enable Norwegian operators to participate from the first day, even when the first calls come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e886	There is no need to make this debate longer than it has to be. There is once again broad consensus in the Committee and a good work by the rapporteur. But it's a very important thing. There are large amounts and enormous efforts by Norway to participate in European research and innovation cooperation. The EU is actively working to improve its programmes – by linking research, innovation and technology development more closely. It inspires us to do the same with our research and innovation policies. The EU has also been able to be clearer on its priorities. We know that international cooperation is what can give us access to a lot of research, development and innovation going on elsewhere, and that can be a bridge into Norway for new knowledge and knowledge. It's also a quality star, where we're measured against good environments out there – which is absolutely necessary for us to know that our research and innovation environments are on the verge. Therefore, it will be very important to contribute through this programme, in the follow-up to Norway, to the development of strong environments that can participate in the priority areas listed by the EU, which can claim to receive funding for their research projects, and which can help improve overall results of the programmes – and not least that we in Norway benefit fully from the knowledge developed, the environments created and the application that both industry, the Norwegian public sector and society can otherwise have. Europe is in deep crisis. It is knowledge, research and innovation that can bring new growth to this continent. Norway has proven better through the crisis than most. We are an innovative country, we have high productivity, and we have a good business life. This programme can help to do even better. I would like to refer to the unanimous comments of the Committee, which encourage that, even if this is a great promise, it should not go beyond national research efforts, but as far as possible get to the top of what we are doing here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e899	Horizon 2020 has three main objectives: building excellent research environments, creating a competitive business and meeting the major societal challenges. Norway should have ambitions to participate and fulfil all three priorities. In excellent science, we find the European Research Council, the ERC, mobility programmes, future technologies and infrastructure. In competitive business, we find key technologies such as ICT, nanotechnologies, biotechnology, space technology, risk capital financing mechanisms and innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises, the so-called SMEs. Research to address societal challenges is the third foot of Horizon 2020. Seven different key societal challenges have been identified, including marine and maritime research, and health and energy research is being promoted. These are areas where Norway has an absolute world-class research environment. Norway has enormous opportunities here. For a country such as Norway with a population similar to that of St. Petersburg and a partially fragmented R & D sector, it is particularly important to participate in large competitive areas where the quality of research is what determines. We have great expectations that the Norwegian university and higher education sector sees the enormous potential of exploiting Horizon 2020, not least because the device matches more closely the areas of competence where we have world-class Norwegian researchers. In the large BI project A knowledge-based Norway, led by Torger Reve and Amir Sasson, it is established that Norway’s value-making industries are competence-based and that this will be even stronger in the future. Oil and gas, renewable energy, maritime sector, offshore, marine sector, finance and ICT are value drivers to safeguard the welfare society of the future. There are different industries, but everyone has one thing in common: they're based on real science. Without real science, there will be no welfare or wealth, and without real science, there will be no Nordic or Norwegian model. That is why we need to ensure that these sectors are given the best skills and participate in international competences, so that they are getting better and better, and that the basis for more value creation and innovation is improved. Participation in Horizon 2020, the world's largest research and innovation programme, with 70 billion. The euro spread over seven years gives Norwegian research communities a unique opportunity to attract exchanges in environments that are at the forefront of their fields. It will contribute to both increased research quality, improved study quality and increased value creation. The Progress Party believes that we must aim for Norway to be among Europe's most innovative country. It is essential for us to be able to have growth and well-being in the future as well. Therefore, it is also very positive that innovation is explicitly mentioned. The fact that Horizon 2020 also brings forward the SME segment is further positive for Norway. Here we will do what we can to create the most favourable possible framework conditions for the SME segment, so that they can also increase their opportunities to participate in the major international research arena. The research project A knowledge-based Norway documented how the value creation is knowledge-based and that research-based value creation is the strongest in the business environments that also have the strongest research environments around them. We therefore hope for an even greater participation of industry in Horizon 2020. There are enormous possibilities here. A community of competences such as the Norwegian requires research contributions from a wide range of disciplines and disciplines. Good research environments at universities and colleges are crucial. Strong professional environments strengthen the supply of students and researchers and are a prerequisite for innovation, prosperity and welfare development. In the social debate, one can get the impression that innovation is just going on in a garage where two technologists are developing a new device. I think we have to remember that innovation is far more than that. Innovation can take place in all disciplines and take place in the production of services, in the public sector, in the health sector, etc. – not just in industry and business. Innovation is also about culture and presupposes that we have citizens with expertise in many fields, not only in the field of real life and technology, but also in the fields of social sciences and humanities. Getting more humanists and social scientists to think more consciously about creativity and value creation will be important not only for academic environments but for society as a whole. Here we hope the environments themselves are offensive and self-confidence on their own behalf and actively seek Horizon 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e920	As set out in the vote, the Centre Party supports the proposal for Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020, in line with the entry of the Red-Green Government last year. Although the Centre Party is against EU membership, we are in favour of interaction with other countries, and as an independent nation with large natural resources, we are particularly concerned about an active European policy and active cooperation with other nations. Most of the knowledge acquisition in the world is located outside Norway's borders. We need to be in close contact with the international environment to re-use this knowledge as much as possible and to contribute Norwegian expertise. The goal is to increase the quality of Norwegian research, but a small and highly developed country that Norway relies on to compete on a knowledge-based basis. Strong and active participation in international research cooperation is crucial to supporting and ensuring a continued positive development in Norwegian research. Global issues related to climate change, the environment, migration, health, poverty, food, water or energy are examples of problem options that greatly affect us. This shows that knowledge and the development of competences in global and Norwegian knowledge policy objectives have been more cohesive. Prior to the processing of the research report, there is also a set of targets for Norwegian research to help solve the global problems where we have a strong and competitive environment. Climate research is such an area in which the Norwegian scientific community has actively contributed to finding solutions for the world community, but also for energy, food, health, the management of natural resources, indigenous research and social sciences. As set out in Horizon 2020, building up under the research policy objectives defined nationally in the research message. Participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research is one of the most important tools we have for the internationalisation of Norwegian research. It is necessary to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness, also in order to gain access to a large amount of international knowledge. The Norwegian participation in the 6th Framework Programme and also in the first part of the 7th Framework Programme has been evaluated, and I have noticed that the evaluation confirmed the central importance of the Framework Programme as the arena for the internationalisation of Norwegian research, and that a recommended further Norwegian participation. Now it is just enough that Norway collects a set of paying to the EU more than what we can recover from Norwegian project funding. This should be seen as a challenge, both within national policies and at an institution level, but with as high a ticket price as Norwegian participation, we also have to expect a higher return in the future. But I record that the counting has also shown a positive trend in recent years, and that it is promising for the future. One reason might be to find that there are still some of the research systems that are not well anchored in international research – either because of weak research results or because of the lack of international research networks. However, research cooperation must not be confined to EU Member States. It is also increasing cooperation with countries outside the EU – such as China, Brazil, Russia and India, which have increasing significance in global research. The participation in Horizon 2020 provides opportunities for the Norwegian research environment, as well as for the major educational institutions. I just want to draw an example from my own region, where the University of Gjøvik, which now has 330 added, has added from 30 different countries. This provides opportunities for cooperation with foreign environment, and that is perhaps why Gjøvik University, despite its size, is one of the few universities that have been given coordination responsibility for one of the EU research programmes. So the center part, as mentioned above, joins the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e941	Of course, for the Left, Norway is going to participate in Horizon 2020, and this is a matter that is unanimous from the Committee, so I will not contribute to extending the debate. But there is one thing that is very important to us in the Left, and that is that the funding of the quota comes in addition to increased research efforts in Norway, and that future quota payments do not go at the expense of other budgetary efforts in our research system. So I just want to also encourage the Council of State to say something about what he thinks about it, and preferably confirm that the quota payment should not go at the expense of increased bets internally here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e948	A lot has already been said about a unanimous attitude, so I should also try to be brief. Therefore, a key objective of Horizon 2020 is to contribute to innovation, sustainable economic growth and employment in Europe, and this in turn will contribute to strengthening Europe’s competitiveness. We know that having Norwegian researchers and Norwegian research communities participating in such programmes is very important. There is evidence from the Research Council that Norwegian researchers and Norwegian research communities are at their best when they cooperate with environments outside borders. I'm also a little concerned about the potential here. A study shows that Norwegian researchers are able to recover approx. 70 pst. of the Norwegian quota. This means that we have more to gain from increased participation in EU research programmes, and I hope that the department will work to enable this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e957	I would also like to say a thousand thanks to the Stortinget and the Committee for the urgency of dealing with the proposition. The decision to include the programmes in the EEA Agreement is likely to take place either in the meeting of the EEA Committee on 16 May or through a written procedure before 16 May. This means, as in the previous case, that Norwegian applicants can participate in the first calls where the first funds are distributed on 3 June. Then I want to make some comments about what we have to do to follow up, because like the previous case, this is a matter of great possibilities. But it is not that these funds benefit Norway; we also need an active policy to support it. A national strategy for research and innovation cooperation with the EU has been announced, and the government intends to present it before the summer. The strategy emphasises cooperation within Horizon 2020 and the European Research Area. The strategy will present the government’s objectives for cooperation and describe measures to achieve those objectives. It will target the authorities, i.e. government and departments, the instrumentation, in particular the Research Council and Innovation Norway, and the actors: universities and higher education institutions, research institutes, businesses, health companies and other public sector sectors. The Research Council has an important role and has the primary responsibility for mobilising. They are doing well, including: with a view to building meeting venues and getting to network construction. Innovation Norway’s EU advisory service shall focus in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises and financial and capital institutions. Research actors – universities and colleges, institutes, businesses and health businesses – have a primary responsibility for mobilising work. If we're going to be able to get more of the money we put in, we're totally dependent on the players playing an important role. The government expects local strategies and measures that can contribute to increased mobilisation. We believe that these measures together will help to meet this challenge, such as: The representative of Odnes pointed out – that Norway is not just contributing, but that we are also using the opportunities we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e970	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e973	Although there is a broad consensus in this matter and much has been said, this is a very important matter, and I therefore want to make some comments. In order to ensure future value creation, Norway must have a competitive, dynamic and internationally oriented research arena in Norway. We have more world-class research environments, and a number of other research environments still have a way to go. A study by the Norwegian Research Council found that 7 out of 10 researchers at the five largest universities are not applying for research funding from the Research Council, and that is not good enough. In order to ensure that research is of high quality, more people have to dare to participate in the major competitive areas. Several have to seek funding from the Research Council, and not least: several have to seek funding from Horizon 2020. Horizon 2020 is the world's largest research and innovation programme, with 70 billion. The euro is divided into seven years, where Norwegian enterprises and research communities can participate in line with colleagues and competitors in other European countries. There are enormous opportunities here – opportunities that are currently too much untapped. I am very happy to see that, for example, the University of Stord/Haugesund and the University of Stavanger are active and have been well-counted in the form of research funds from the EU. Both UiS and HSH take offensive positions and demonstrate their willingness to participate in the competition for the funds of Horizon 2020. It suggests self-confidence and the ability to seize the opportunities. We depend on the expertise and expertise that flow through European research and education cooperation. As offensive and active participants in international arenas, such as Horizon 2020, the possibility of recruiting more foreign researchers and top-class teaching staff to Norwegian institutions is also strengthened. Many are concerned about globalisation and the internationalisation we see in both trade/business and education/research. It may not be as strange in a small country as Norway. The fact is that over 99 pst. research takes place outside Norway’s borders, but for Norway, participation as a knowledge nation is vital. For a tiny little country in the world’s inflated edge – with an extremely international orientated economy and too few people and too much money – it is impossible to develop without participating in international arenas, and here Horizon 2020 stands in a special class for the research communities. The Progress Party therefore has strong expectations that participation will allow the sector to cooperate with the elite in research. This can also help bring more institutions into the world elite, where they belong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e993	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1020	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1027	This will be on behalf of the case rapporteur, Anniken Huitfeldt, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be here. Croatia became an EU member from 1 July last year. Pursuant to Article 128 of the EEA Agreement, all countries that become members of the EU are also required to apply to become parties to the EEA Agreement and the conditions are to be laid down in a separate agreement. Inclusion of Croatia into the EEA Agreement means that this agreement replaces our former free trade agreement with Croatia, which fell away when it became an EU member. Since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement in 1994, the main objective has been to ensure Norwegian business access to a single market, on a level playing field and on the basis of a common regulatory framework. The enlargement of the EU with Croatia means an expansion of the EU's internal market, and it is important for Norwegian businesses that market access also includes the new Member State. For this reason, it is an overall committee which considers it important to establish an EEA-wide agreement so that EEA cooperation can continue and prevent new barriers to trade between Norway and parts of the European market. It will take some time before the comprehensive ratification process has been completed in all 31 EEA countries, and therefore the Committee supports the EU and the three EFTA countries in the practice of the temporary application of the enlargement agreement. There have been two main questions in the negotiations. One is the extension of the financial contribution of EFTA countries to social and economic cohesion to Croatia. The second is the maintenance of the conditions for Norwegian and Icelandic market access for fish and fish products after the expiry of the free trade agreement with Croatia. The agreement negotiated by the Government means that the EEA financial instruments to which all three EFTA countries contribute will be extended by an additional 5 million. EUR for the period 2009 to 2014. Of these, Norway will pay 4.7 million. euro. The support shall be granted to projects and funds in the fields of environmental protection and management, climate and renewable energy, civil society, the development of human resources, cultural heritage, research and higher education. The Norwegian financial instrument is also extended by 4,6 million. the euro, and shall go to projects in the fields of carbon capture and storage, green business development, research and higher education, development of human resources, justice and home affairs and the promotion of decent work and tripartite cooperation. This provides Croatia with an overall contribution in line with the other countries covered by the current funding mechanism. An overall committee underlines that, through this extension of financial instruments, we make a significant contribution to social and economic development in Croatia and several of the other EU countries, although there is no legal obligation to do so under the EEA Agreement. The Committee also points out that those arrangements should not be made permanent. In the case of fish, the agreement provides for an increase in the duty-free quota to the EU market of a total of 1400 tonnes of herring and vinegar-treated herring – products which, in addition to the duty-free quota, meet a tariff barrier of 20 pst. This is a compensation for the lapse of the duty-free regime that resulted in the free trade agreement for the export of fish to Croatia. A broad majority of the Committee supports the government’s decision not to impose restrictions on possible labour immigration from Croatia. It is not expected to be comprehensive. Should it prove necessary against assumption, it is possible to introduce transitional arrangements in the first seven years of the contract. The Committee also supports the use of transitional arrangements which mean that carriers from Croatia will not have access to domestic transport, so-called cabotage, in the EEA countries in the first two years. There are a few comments from two of the parties, which I expect these parties to explain themselves, but there is an overall committee that recommends that the Stortinget ratify the extension agreement with the adjacent agreements and the agreement on temporary application, and amend the EEA Act, so that it also includes Croatia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1057	I would also like to thank Mr Roald Hansen for his report. A good job has been done in the job of presenting the matter – especially given that we had a short time to present it to Stortinget. I would also like to thank you for the good cooperation and the work that has been done on the part of the Ministry towards the Committee on this matter, on which there is a broad consensus in the Committee, as it was said instead. It is important to bring Croatia into the EEA, and it is very positive that the EEA countries have now reached agreement on an agreement after months of negotiations. The extension of the EEA Agreement also offers that EEA cooperation is attractive and works well. The EEA Agreement can now be continued and prevent the emergence of new barriers to trade. EEA enlargement is important for Norwegian business. The agreement ensures Norwegian farms access to the Croatian market in line with EU countries and improves market access for fish and fish products to the EU. At the same time, the EEA funds will help to strengthen contact and cooperation between Norway and Croatia. As the previous speaker said, Norway should also contribute to social and economic development in Croatia through the EEA funds. It is also positive that no restrictions are imposed on the free movement of workers from Croatia. It is also important given the importance of labour immigration for Norwegian business. It is hoped that Croatia’s entry into the EEA may enter into force as soon as possible once it has been formally authorised in the EEA countries, EFTA countries and EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1074	I would like to thank Svein Roald Hansen, who, on behalf of the case spokesperson, has a very precise and good manner of handling matters in the committee. I don't have so much to add, but I want to say that after Croatia joined the EU in 2013, the EEA should also be expanded. Such processes need to be ratified in all countries, so it takes some time. Once it has been completed, the EEA area will cover 31 countries in Europe. We would like to welcome Croatia to this area of cooperation. Of course, this has the greatest significance for Croatia, which will thus receive contributions from 30 other European countries for further development, not least socially and economically, but also politically in a number of areas. It is positive that all parties are certain that the Storting should today give its consent to this extension of the EEA territory. For Norway, that means first and foremost two things: Firstly, we take on commitments to increase Norway’s funding contribution to the so-called EEA funds, so that Croatia can also receive support from Norway for its further development. Secondly, Norway will also increase its duty-free market access to the EU when it applies to individual herring products, which otherwise meet 20 pst. That's great. This compensates for the loss of Norway’s bilateral free trade agreement with Croatia, which it has become part of the EU customs union. The results of the negotiations at these points largely follow the pattern that has been the tradition of similar EU and EEA extensions. We in the Christian People's Party have noticed that the government does not expect this extension of the EEA area to have significant economic consequences for Norway. Transitional arrangements are available if there is a risk of significant problems in some areas. We have noticed that the government believes that it will not be necessary, except at one point, as the case-speaker says: Transporters from Croatia will not be able to carry out domestic transport operations in Norway, so-called cabotage, the first two years. As this debate shows, there is no political disagreement about Croatia becoming part of the EEA territory. It is our hope that the integration of countries from what was formerly called Europe's troubled corner, the Balkans, can help these countries to have a better future in terms of democracy, political stability and peace, as well as economic and social development. Norway's contribution to this is part of a solidarity foreign policy – for which we as a nation have a long tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1095	First, I would like to thank the case spokesman for the orderly work he has done on this matter. Croatia became a member of the EU on 1 July 2013, allowing them to join European economic cooperation. Norway has participated in these negotiations on the extension of this cooperation. The view of the centre party is slightly different from that of the multiplicity of the committee, and there is a need to introduce the transitional arrangements. The Central Party believes that we should hold on to the precedent of transitional arrangements for new Member States of the European Union. Many of the foundations of the welfare state of Norway lie in our jealous society, and we see that the difference between the different occupational groups is increasing. This is partly due to: The free movement of the EU in the labour market and the import of cheap labour make it necessary to prevent social dumping and undermining Norwegian wage and labour conditions. Uncontrolled imports of labour make it harder to maintain acceptable wage and working conditions within several industries facing fierce competition from low-cost countries. Concerns about social dumping and pressure on national welfare systems led 12 out of 15 countries in the EU to introduce transitional arrangements in 2004, when the EU was expanded by 10 new Member States. Norway’s transitional arrangements meant that jobseekers from new EU countries had to have a job offer before they were allowed to leave, and the requirement was that pay and working conditions in the job offered to them should not be worse than the current collective bargaining agreement and normal pay and working conditions in the industry concerned. The centre lot indicates that the government itself realises that transitional arrangements are needed when they propose to introduce this in the proposal for the transport sector. We are a few in that transitional arrangements should be introduced in the transport sector because Norwegian drivers are struggling very hard with competition with foreign drivers, and we commend the government for recognising this problem. At the same time, we must be aware that the transport industry is not the only burden resulting from labour imports. In industries such as construction, sanitation and the hotel and restaurant industries, one also experiences a loss in competition. The centre party believes that transitional arrangements should apply in general and not just to a specific industry. Some might argue against introducing transitional arrangements to Croatia because their economy is not so big. However, the Central Party believes that it is important to maintain the practice one has had – so far – with transitional arrangements for new EU countries, as it is possible to regulate the imports of labour through the EEA Agreement Norway. The transitional arrangements are – so far – the only means we have to balance our imports. The Central Party believes that Norway should be consistent in introducing transitional arrangements for new EU countries. The EU will probably integrate more economies into its free market, and these economies may soon be of such size that Norway can be exposed to significant imbalances. Otherwise, the Centre Party has a couple of other comments that go on this with the EEA Agreement as an agreement with the EU, and then I refer to the comments that are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1116	I would like to thank the case rapporteur and the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee for their effective consideration of this proposition. There have been lengthy negotiations that created time constraints, and I am grateful that Stortinget managed this time pressure so well and has delivered a unanimous position. I would also like to congratulate the citizens of Croatia and the government of Croatia on their membership of the European Union. That Croatia with this also joins the EEA may not be a monumental event in the life of the Croatian nation, but it is an expression and an example of a remarkable historical process. So it is less than twenty years since the reception of refugees from Croatia and Norwegian participation in peacekeeping operations in the former Yugoslavia was discussed in this Chamber. Today we are discussing Croatia's entry into the EEA, as a full member of the EU. At a time when we are spending a lot of time and resources on Europe's problems, it can serve as an illustration of Europe's great strength in these problems, namely the attraction that gives vulnerable new democracies and economies a perspective, a plan, a connection. It is in the interest of all of us that the European Union continues to function in this way. In that process, cohesion funds from the EU and funds from the EEA Financial Mechanism are an important support. Our contributions to the EEA Financial Mechanism and the bilateral financial instrument demonstrate our solidarity with what is one of the poorest Member States of the EU and contribute to enabling Croatia to take full advantage of its participation in the EU's internal market. In turn, it also serves Norwegian interests in the internal market, which now also includes Croatia. It also serves Norwegian interests that we are open to labour immigration from EEA countries. Following the EEA enlargement in 2004, it has been positive for the Norwegian labour market and for the Norwegian economy. Several industries, not least rural industries — including agriculture — depend on EEA labour migration. In the case of Croatia, attempts have even been made to recruit Croatian engineers to Norway, an example of the fact that we have served not to have general transitional arrangements. Each European country chooses its own link with the European integration process. Norway has, and Croatia has. Now several countries on the Western Balkans are on their way. I hope Slovenia and Croatia can serve as examples for the countries that come after. It gives hope that countries that just a few years ago were at war with each other, can soon be gathered together in a close, peaceful community.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1131	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1137	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1209	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1219	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-01.ana.ud362e1297	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
