ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e35	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Thorhild Widvey and Tord Lien will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e42	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. In these days, municipal governments across the country are adopting their budgets for the next year. A few weeks ago, KS presented a budget survey that confirms the impression given when reading local newspapers, namely that many municipalities will have to cut well-being and in school in 2015. In the municipalities that KS has studied, there is a real decline in school investment to next year. The study also shows that four out of ten municipalities plan to increase property taxes next year, and that many municipalities also see need to increase the proportion of municipal services, for example. be for home help and SFO. One important reason for this is that the tax revenue of the municipalities fails by nearly 3 billion. kr in 2014. There are also some developments that go in the opposite direction, but the income loss for municipalities is in any case of 2 billion. kr. If this isn't compensated by Stortinget, that means that the municipalities start the new year with a big minus. The last two times there was tax failure in the municipalities were the Progress Party to compensate for the loss of income. Why do not the Progress Party and the Minister of Finance feel the same way when they are in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e53	It is precisely because municipalities are responsible for important welfare services that the government has committed to a strong strengthening of the municipal economy next year. It is such that the adopted budget generates a growth in the total income of municipalities for the next year of 7.8 billion. kr. It will enable municipalities to strengthen welfare production. I believe that in a debate on local economy, we should also discuss the real opportunities of municipalities to improve efficiency. Through the State budget, we have adopted an efficiency reform for all state enterprises, which is just about imposing on agencies to spend money smarter and use taxpayers' money smarter. I believe that this is also a potential in the municipalities, but it is crucial for this government to ensure that municipalities have a liberal economy precisely in order to meet the important primary tasks for which the municipalities are responsible. That's why I'm very satisfied with the growth of 7.8 billion. NOK that has been allocated to the municipalities for the following year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e60	I would advise the Minister of Finance to talk to his own party traps around Norwegian municipalities, because they tell of a completely different reality than what the Minister of Finance here reports. So before the municipalities can start in the new year, they have a big negative that they have to take in. I record that the Minister of Finance did not respond to the question, because in 2004 there was a main requirement from Siv Jensen and the Progress Party in the budget negotiations with the Bondevik II government that the tax deficit in the municipalities should be compensated so that the municipalities could enter 2005 with blank sheets. Siv Jensen was also very clear that this was an important principle for the Progress Party. Among other things, she said: to the Official Journal of Bergen: ‘Today it is such that the country literally compensates the country for the loss of tax revenue. The same principle must apply to municipalities, as our rapporteurs have also pointed out." Also in 2009, the Progress Party considered that tax revenues should be compensated when they failed. Has Siv Jensen changed her mind about this principle, or has she been defeated by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e72	The party in which progress has always been concerned is to ensure that municipalities have liberal revenues to carry out their primary tasks. We still believe that. So in 2004, the situation was quite different than it is today. First, the transfers to municipalities were significantly lower than they are today, while the tax failure was significantly higher than it is today. Of course, the situation was much more precarious – overall – for the municipalities than it is today. I notice that Helga Pedersen uses quotes, and it could be tempting to send someone back. The Hill-Marta Solberg of the Workers' Party has repeatedly challenged the principle that municipalities should retain more of their income in good times, and that they should then bear the tax losses in bad times. The Labour Party has defended this as a principle. Has the Workers' Party now strayed from that principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e81	It opens for follow-up questions – first Truls Wickholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e84	It is evident that the tone of the Progress Party has changed dramatically in the year in which they have been in government. Now there are budgetary rules and bureaucratic formulations that answer most people's challenges: «Now, I think it is important that we at Stortinget discuss the general and central policy, and then we have to discuss municipal policy among those elected at municipal level. I think it will be very good." This said Siv Jensen's local representative here at the house, Harald Tom Nesvik, in the financial debate when Helga Pedersen a few weeks ago confronted him with the same challenge for the municipalities. So it has gone so far that the Progress Party is now using levels of government as an excuse not to engage for most people. Will this also be the answer from Siv Jensen when we see cuts in school and care for the elderly in Norwegian municipalities next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e96	This is – with respect to reporting – wrong. It's precisely because we're in government, that we've had the opportunity to strengthen the municipality's economy next year, and I'm glad that it's got a majority in the Stortinget. So it's not insignificant transfers the municipalities get next year. They're reinforced by $7.8 billion. kr. Free income has increased by 4.7 billion. kr. There is a need to improve welfare production. Thus, the government is in constant and close contact with KS, the local association, which has both expressed satisfaction with the budget for the next year and expressed the need for us to maintain the principles of funding for municipalities, because it provides a significantly higher level of predictability. There has been a principle that the Workers' Party has agreed to, every year. I find that they are not, and you can wonder why.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e103	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e106	What would we do without quotes? There had been shorter debates, at least. It is quite right that this tax failure has actually been a subject since the budget was presented and there were signs of it. And it was an important theme when KS was in the finance committee and presented its view on next year's budget. They said, "We want the system as it is, that when we go positive, we get to keep the plus, and when we go negative, we take it too." But then they added: ‘What is important is that the figures on which the government is based and which provide the predictability necessary for the municipalities are solid enough.’ My question is: does the Minister of Finance think that there is as good a system as possible, so that the municipalities can both give priority and have predictability in their budgetary system with which we are all served?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e124	So essentially, we have that. Technical estimation and a wide range of studies provide a fairly comprehensive basis for assessing the development of municipalities from one year to the next. It is not the case that the budget is not based on thorough preliminary calculations. The forecasts for this are presented in the municipal bill. In this case, the budget adopted was significantly higher than the estimates for the municipal economy in the municipalproposition. It is about the government taking into account many different changes in the municipalities during the last year and also allowing the municipalities to retain a larger share than they would have had if technical calculations had been taken into account. We have not – simply because we are concerned with a strengthened local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e129	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e132	It's easy to get involved in technicalities and systems. In fact, the seas of the local economy are growing, so tax revenue is falling, and something is going on. It affects the care of the elderly, and it affects the schools. That challenge must actually be addressed by the Council of State. She did that in 2004, but she's not willing to do that now. 40 pst. of the municipalities increase the property tax, 60 pst. increases the fees. In Eastern Toten, a municipality with rapporteur from the Central Party and rapporteur from the Progress Party, they say that the choice is between cutting 24–36 teaching positions and increasing property tax. My question is this: does the Council of State think it is right that taxes should be increased in order to avoid large cuts, or should the State take responsibility for misappropriation of the tax and help to compensate it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e141	It is tempting to remind Marit Arnstad that during the previous government, between 2005 and 2013, the income of municipalities from property taxes increased from 4.3 billion. kr to 8.9 b.w. kr. Then there was a real tightening of property taxes in very many municipalities. I do not agree that inflation has now taken place in the municipalities of the country. I rather believe on the contrary that the arrangement for the municipalities for the next year is good. It has received a great deal of approval from the municipal association and, as the chairman of the finance committee also said, KS itself has underlined the importance of predictability in the municipalities' economy, and that we should therefore stick to the systems and structures we have. That being said, me and the government are concerned that municipalities should be able to solve their important welfare tasks. That is why we have strengthened the municipal economy for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e148	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e151	Many in this room have local political experience and, of course, know that both tax revenue and government funding are important. But so important, and perhaps especially when it's difficult times, is that as a municipality you have the freedom to dispose of your own resources as much as possible yourself. There is a state detail management system with many requirements, and financial detail management is also difficult to deal with for municipalities. Then my question becomes: what will the Minister of Finance do to increase local freedom of action, both to improve the availability of funds in good times, but also to be able to deal with more difficult times for each municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e158	It is true that there are many of us who have local political experience, who have been involved in drawing up municipal budgets and have also been concerned about how a municipality housekeepers spend their money – what it prioritises. It is also a little about many local governments — it is about giving priority to the most important tasks and ensuring good welfare production. But I'm very pleased with the question from Elvesuen – it's about the important discussion that Stortinget will take through the spring, based on the municipal minister's proposal on task transfers to the municipalities. Where the government is now working quite systematically and going through sector by sector to look at what tasks it will be natural for the future to transfer to municipalities just to increase the basis for greater local freedom of action. I think that can be exciting and important discussions that the Storting will take next year, and I look forward to the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e163	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e166	There is no doubt that billions are looser when it comes to distributing large tax cuts to a small elite than when it comes to disability, unemployment, climate change measures or local economy. The two-billion-dollars. kr it is about real money that has real consequences in municipalities. One of the most important tasks for municipalities is the care of the elderly. The party of progress has long said that they will make it state-owned, it has ended up in an agreement to investigate a trial scheme, or something like that. So far, care for the elderly is still municipal. Does the Minister of Finance think that there will be a better or a worse care for the elderly in the municipalities next year because they will in practice receive 2 billion. kr less to route with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e173	First of all, it's not right that the money is looser in terms of tax relief. We have strengthened the local economy next year by far more billions than we have spent on important tax cuts. I think it's worth correcting the Serigstad Valen. That being said, parental care is one of the most important tasks for which municipalities are responsible. During the working hours of this government, we have made a lot of efforts to strengthen the real possibility for municipalities to expand more hospitals. For example, we have put in place a system where the state takes half the bill when the municipalities build hospitals, and it is now starting to produce results. More applications than before are received, and that means that more spades will be put into the earth in the future, so that there will be better and more sick homes around the municipality of Norway. I'm glad. While it is important that we have good, credible and secure care for the elderly, it must also be varied. It must be a good offer to ensure that older people have real freedom of choice, a little depending on their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e180	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e184	My question goes to Minister of Culture Thorhild Widvey and concerns Sunday open shops. In the last decades, Western countries have moved from having a market economy to being more of a market economy. The absence of ethical and value-based public discussions is the best friend of the market. The less we discuss the moral boundaries of the market and leave them to each one, the more market dominates all aspects of life. This also applies to Sunday trade. It sounds to me tolerable: let consumers decide for themselves. But man is much more than just a consumer, or a consumer. The size is set to manage a larger whole than for consumer or market reasons only. We become poor as societies if man is reduced to a market actor. That is why the Christian People's Party says yes to today's rules for Sunday trade, we say yes to Sunday as a different day, yes to Sunday open homes and families, Sunday open nature, Sunday open churches and Sunday open cultural events. I don't want to push organisations like Works and LO and the commerce, rather the majority of the population, in front of me when I argue ethically and valuablely to clarify my and the Christian People's Party's views on this matter. But it is a fact that all of these have come with clear warnings against the government's political and ideological goals of more Sunday trade through Sunday open shops. When there is such a large majority against the government's proposal, what is the reason why the government listens more to itself than to the large majority who are opposed to the government's intention to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e197	The government said in its statement that we would allow shops to stay open on Sundays. It is also said that we, together with the social partners, will assess how shopkeepers can be covered by a good law in terms of working time and not least participation. This is a discussion that has been going on for a long time. In the opposition, the government parties were very concerned and wanted, at the time, to contribute through the law to make the discrimination that really is today, and the distortion of competition that is, less. This is the basis for wanting consumers to have more opportunity to buy the goods they want on Sundays, and that is why we have said in the Health Declaration that we want to get it to. We want equal treatment, and we will also allow all the shops that want it to remain open on Sundays. As it is today, the Holiday Act requires the shops to keep closed on Sundays and other holidays. In a short time, the government will be sending out to the hearing a proposal for changes that can help them to stay on Sundays, but we have not taken a final stand on the design of it and are working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e206	It is interesting that it is because it is stated in the government statement that this must be implemented, and not because it is a cry in the population. Sunday open air will have a significant negative impact on the nearby stores in District Norway, showing a study from the Institute for Industry Analysis, carried out on behalf of Operational Food and Mercury. According to the survey, nine out of ten district stores do not want to change opening hours. Daily grocery stores in the districts are experiencing small profit margins today. The implementation of Sunday open air could lead to an enhanced store death, with the consequences it will have for many communities looking at the grocery store as an important prerequisite for housing. In view of this, will the government at least make an impact assessment before they go to the step of opening Sunday-open shops, which the government also asks for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e215	I have already received some impact assessments, which have therefore been submitted to us. We in the government believe that we have a good basis for assessing this. We are now in a situation where we evaluate the scope of this, and how the device should be. We'll get back to this. First of all, the matter shall be referred to the hearing. Then we'll have the opportunity to discuss this when the matter comes to Stortinget, with the possible legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e222	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e225	It is exciting what the Council of State says, that the government has been presented with various impact assessments, and that you feel that you have a good enough basis to make the decisions you want to make. I hope that these impact assessments are open, so that even the others who have an involvement in these matters can access them. The Council of State tells the representative Bekkevold that the government wants equal treatment – that all shops that want it should be kept open. It is a rather special approach in terms of the market – voluntary competition. It is true that when the watchmaker at the center is open, the clockmaker in the pedestrian street must also be open. That's how the market works, otherwise you lose the market share. Does the Council of State see that the approach taken by the government in the Sundvolden Declaration is a rather special idea in terms of the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e232	Today, it is a fact that there is distortion of competition, that it is not an equal competitive market – as it does according to the law – when preventing someone in, for example, to keep it open. That's why we want equal treatment. We will therefore allow all shops that want to do so to remain open on Sundays – if they want to do so themselves. It will not be required to be open, it must be up to the market itself to regulate it. Those who are responsible for these shops are assessing whether they think it is right to keep it open, something that someone has occasion for today, but not all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e239	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e242	It's obvious, even from the answers we get from Thorhild Widvey in this room, that this is a matter the government intends to promote, almost regardless of the resistance you have to face – regardless of whether those who run the store are skeptical, regardless of whether those who are employed are skeptical, completely independent of the fact that all the organizations that have participated in this campaign are skeptical, and completely independent of the fact that the Norwegian people also express great scepticism through measurements. Now, working with many organisations has asked for an impact assessment. We see that the Council of State ignores it, and will send the matter out despite warnings – and then you should listen. We see all this resistance in the population, and then it would be really exciting to hear, who is the government listening to in this matter? Is that mammon? And in that case, is it to consider as a call for this government to promote such a thing no matter how strong counter-representations might come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e247	I believe that what matters to the government is that we want equal treatment and therefore will allow all the shops that want it to remain open on Sunday. That is what is important, that there is equal treatment in this respect. In addition, it will also help consumers to be able to choose from a wider range of products in several shops – where they really want to. I myself was out for a little walk on Sundays and shopping – and that’s an incredibly big commitment, there’s a lot of people out there on one of the Sundays that according to the law there’s an opportunity to stay open on per day. And I think that's important, there's at least a lot of people out there on these Sundays that it's now opening up to. I believe that non-discrimination is important, and that we should not, through the law, disperse anyone: everyone must be able to be open.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e252	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e256	The trading community doesn't want it. The employees don't want it. A number of non-governmental organisations do not want it. The majority of the population don't want to. Many of us think that we have a society that consumes enough. Many people think that we have a society where we are more than enough busy already. And many of us also think that families could have a little more time for each other than they have today in everyday life. I understand that the government is determined, and I hear that the Council of State says that we should be allowed to do more and that it should be non-discrimination, but is there any advantage in addition to being allowed to buy another product? Is there any advantage over what the Council of State sees in keeping Sunday open?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e261	I very much agree with the representative that it is great that people spend time together. But I think it is wrong that it should be regulated in a law a discrimination that tells you that it is good that someone is allowed to have a store open, while others are not given the opportunity to have it. And that, through the law, we're going to regulate when people are going to spend time together, that's what I think is fundamentally wrong. We know that today's legislation has a number of exceptions that can contribute to discrimination and distortion of competition. That's what's the starting point for us really want to change this law. We want equal treatment and will therefore allow all the shops that want it to remain open on Sundays. So the situation is that we're now going to send this to the hearing. When the government has the matter ready, we will send it to the hearing, and then we will have to decide on the final proposal that will be promoted towards Stortinget. I guess the majority in this house will then give signals of what is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e268	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e271	SV is concerned with fair distribution, including in terms of work and leisure time. We want a work life in which people can stand, which is predictable for employees, and which can be combined with family and a real life. Sunday-open shops are a freedom that involves the freedom of others. 370,000 people work in the goods trade today. That's a lot of moms and dads. There are a lot of moms and dads who want to go out on Sundays, who want to have dinner with their kids, who want to have one day off with the kids when kindergarten and school are closed. My question is, how does the Council of State think it is possible to combine family life and work in the trade in goods if there is not one day without work for a whole week?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e280	As I said at the outset, the Sundvolden Declaration states that the government, together with the social partners, will assess how shopkeepers can be covered by a good law in terms of working time and participation. We must not forget that there are an incredible number of shops today that have actually been open, both in the central districts and not least – there are a lot of exceptions to the rules, which open Sunday-open shops – in the so-called tourist resorts. On Beitostølen, where I have the opportunity to be a part, it is open on Christmas Day, Thursday, Thursday and Easter Day – and it is a quite wide range of goods that are available – while they are a little further down into the village do not have the opportunity to have it because they are not defined as a tourist destination. There is nothing to hide that this contributes to creating an injustice. There is no equal treatment for those who run these shops today, and that is what the government wants to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e287	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e290	My question goes to the party leader in the Progress Party and Finance Minister Siv Jensen. Traffic is important for people and business. Better roads, rail and public transport reduce distance congestion and prevent queues. That is why there is a broad understanding of it in most parties. That's why the red-green government in its last draft budget added up to a growth of 6.3 billion. kr, and the Minister of Finance followed up in the 2015 budget with a slightly weaker growth of 5 billion. kr. Before the 2013 elections, when the Progress Party was in opposition, the traffic and toll resistance were the lot’s glan number. It used unparliamentary terms, such as highway robbery and skinning, about tolls, and a promise of a $45 billion trade bet. kr annually in addition to that of the national transport plan. It was promised that it would be "free" on the sign above the toll stations. The reality became a different one. In 2014, on a proposal from the government, 11.5 billion were adopted. new toll crowns – €6.5 billion. kr to build the road and 5 brd. NOK at borrowing and collection costs. The finance minister promised in the financial speech that the toll collection would be smarter. The Minister of Transport has made this concrete and promised that from 2015 there would be a toll reform in which one of the elements would be that existing and future toll projects would get a loan rate down to 0 pst. through an interest-rate compensation scheme. Only for the five projects adopted in 2014, this could amount to approximately 3.8 billion. kr. My question is: Can the Minister of Finance confirm that existing and new toll projects for 2015 will get an interest rate down to 0 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e303	I would like to ask questions about the details of some road projects to be addressed to the Minister for Transport who is directing them, but in general I can say that I am very pleased with many of the grips the government is now taking on the field of transport. The next year’s budget does not only imply strong growth in investment for roads, collective investment and other important purposes in the transport sector. For the first time in many years, a government adds that we should be able to begin to reduce the maintenance run that grew heavily under the red-green government. It's also important. It's not just about cutting strings on new projects. It is also about taking care of the projects we have. Many people around this country are frustrated by the changing quality of existing roads. That's why we have focused on both making it easier for county councils to carry out their tasks with the roads and that, under the government's direction, we also take action to get more money back. The fact that the government has now established an infrastructure fund to be built up to 100 billion. kr, where we are far beyond expected progress, means that we secure additional funds for the transport sector every year for important tasks in both investment and operation. The fact that the Minister of Transport is working on establishing a road company will mean that in the future we can build roads faster, cheaper and smarter than today. This will benefit the drivers. The fact that the Minister of Transport is working on a toll reform will mean that it will benefit the drivers in the future, and that is what the Progress Party is all about. When the Minister of Transport also works with an interest-rate compensation scheme, it is precisely about facilitating conditions, so that the drivers pay as little as possible and get the best possible roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e312	I thank you for the answer, and I understand that you cannot go into individual projects. But my question doesn't matter either. My question is that the Minister of Transport in this Chamber has promised an interest rate down to zero, following a proposal that will bind up a significant number of billions of dollars, and I believe that this must also be made clear to the Minister of Finance. This will mean that the government will cover current interest rates for all toll projects in the country. An alternative way to reduce toll burden would have been to use this money to increase the state share of road projects. This would reduce interest costs, reduce the total cost of the projects and make more of the money go to building roads and less to interest and collection costs. This should be a well-known statement for the party leader and the finance minister. So my follow-up question is, isn't an increase in the state's share a smarter way to do that than to introduce an interest-rate compensation scheme for the construction of a state road?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e319	The details of all these reforms will be ample opportunity for the Stortinget to discuss when the government presents them, and of course the Minister of Finance has an opinion on this. It also has the government when we look at all the various and important reforms that are now taking place in the field of transport. I think it is very gratifying if the Senter party now has a somewhat different view of the toll load around in Norway than they had when they were in government. The truth is that this government is working systematically to minimise the burden of tolling in projects and that the drivers are going to experience that more money is being allocated than ever, just to achieve many important transport purposes across the whole country. So, in addition, the government is concerned about, as the previous government wasn't, doing something about the maintenance work, and we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e326	There will be follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e330	At E18 in Westfold, the government has extended the tolling period from 15 to 20 years. This makes the project around 1.4 billion. more expensive, due to higher interest costs when the recovery period is extended. This is explained by the fact that when you get an interest compensation scheme, with interest rates down to zero, the drivers don't notice this extra bill. Does not play the increase in the total cost of $1.4 billion. Do the government and the Minister for Finance have a role to play as long as it is the taxpayers who have to pay and not the drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e335	Once again, I would just like to stress that it is impossible for me to go into individual projects – it is the responsibility of the Minister of Transport. But I'm very pleased with many of the steps this government has taken in the field of transport, which ensures faster progress on important road projects across the whole country. I am pleased that we are able to think in full, that we are not only concerned with investments, but that we are also concerned with operations and maintenance, that we are concerned with strengthening the collective effort, that we are concerned about investing more in new train sections, that we are looking at maritime transport and also at air transport. It is essential for a long-term country like Norway, and no one can claim that the government has not taken transport policy seriously. So we have greatly increased the appropriations for all purposes next year, in addition to working with many improved reforms, the whole purpose of which is to benefit the drivers in this country. I'm happy with that, and we're going to keep working for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e340	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e343	On Saturday, the Minister for Transport opened a new E6 along Mjösa. But the Minister of Transport is an expensive man to visit. When he got to the road opening on Saturday, it cost 57 kroner in tolls to drive between Gardermoen and Hamar. When he traveled from the roadway, it cost 97 kroner to drive the same distance, an increase of 70 pst. – the increase in tolls of the time. I would like to hear from Siv Jensen, the finance minister and party leader, who has worked for many years to take the Progress Party into government: When she dreamed of being in government, she once thought that if the Progress Party were to get the finance minister and the transport minister, they would increase the toll rates on one of the country's most important roadways by 70 p.m. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e350	I understand that the Stortinget would like to have the Minister of Transport here in this spontaneous Question Time, and I hope that he will come quickly in the New Year, so that you can ask him questions about all the different sections. Let me say, on behalf of the Progress Party, that we have been working every year to make improvements in transport policy, with a view to making the driving lists in Norway feel that the roads are getting better. That's what they're going to be. The fact that we are implementing many of these important reforms will mean that we are building more roads, that we are getting more for the money we are investing on behalf of the Norwegian people, that we are bringing down the costs of each project, and that we are also implementing a completely necessary maintenance of the existing road network. I'm very pleased with the start we have at this, but we're in no way in the target, and we're going to continue stepping up funds for the transport sector in the coming years as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e357	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e360	The government has announced that it will propose the establishment of a road development company during 2015. We're looking forward to that. The purpose is inter alia: more coherent road development, faster deployment and predictable financing. Such a development company must be guaranteed annual revenues in order to manage major development tasks. Does the Minister of Finance consider it natural to include tolls as part of the annual revenue of the development company, in order to make it as robust as possible and to ensure that the company has a regular cash flow in order to build an integrated and coherent road?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e367	The President will note that this goes very far into the affairs of the Minister of Transport, so the Minister of Finance will decide for herself whether to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e370	The Minister of Finance's answer to this is that she knows that the Minister of Transport is about to finish this, and will bring the matter before the Stortinge as soon as he has an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e375	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e378	The question goes to the Minister of Finance. «Norwegian economy sensitive to oil price developments.» This assertion is not only my left or mine, but is verbatim quoted from the Report. St. 1 for 2014–2015, National Budget 2015. The 2015 state budget is settled with an expected oil price of 650 kroner barrel, and yesterday the bikka North Sea oil under 60 dollars barrel, corresponding to approx. 440 kroner per barrel. Had it not been for a strengthened dollar, the price difference from budget expectations to what we see today would have been even greater. A lastingly lower oil price than the government budget will necessarily be followed, perhaps not immediately but in the long term. Yesterday, DNB Markets presented its economic outlook, where the bank notes that next year's GDP growth is halved from 2.5 pst. to 1,2 pst., precisely based on the prospect of a permanently lower oil price and reduced oil investment. It merges into the corresponding NHO and SSB projections. «An oil price stabilising at a clearly lower level will impose high requirements on the ability to convert to Norwegian enterprises and workers.» This is again a quote from the same staging message. The question to the Minister of Finance is therefore whether she believes that the 2015 budget contains enough measures to contribute to this necessary transition, or whether the Minister of Finance will now warn that there will be the necessary measures to convert business before the revised national budget. In this case, the left will, as always, be constructive, with several own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e396	Thank you for an important question. Let me first say that wondering how the oil price is going to develop in the next few months, I'm not going to do that. But what we know, over very many years, is that there is considerable uncertainty about the oil price, and it fluctuates over time. On the other hand, what we were committed to stress in the 2015 budget was the long-term announcement of the transition that would come, namely that we will see a reduction in investment as early as next year. We've known this for very many years to come, and now we're there. But I want to stress that there is no crisis for the Norwegian economy. The Norwegian economy is bottom-solid. We have low unemployment, we have high employment, we have growth in the economy, we go with huge profits, and we have the best assumptions for meeting a transformation that we've known for a long time would come. And then it's important to start from the state budget that Stortinget has just adopted, which I think is very well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. I have also said on behalf of the government that if a need arises in addition to 2015, the government is of course prepared to come to Stortinget with measures. It's also important to stress that we have quite significant shock absorbers that work. The first one that works is the dollar rate. The second one, which Norway’s Bank used last week, is interest. The third is the oil fund. The fourth is the fact that we have a very robust financial industry, and that gives us a very good starting point. But what is important to discuss is the difference between a temporary crisis and a transition. As long as we agree that what we're meeting now is conversion, it's easier to identify what actions we need to take over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e409	Thank you for the answer from the Minister of Finance. She gave the key to the oil fund, and oil has definitely been a blessing to Norway so far. As a community, we have made a lot of sense in managing those revenues, but believing that we are not oil addicts, is nevertheless deceiving ourselves. Getting less dependent on oil is not only an environmental issue, it is also a matter of securing the Norwegian economy, Norwegian industry, into the future. From such a perspective, the fact that the oil fund is so heavily exposed to petroleum companies. For this reason, it was important that in March this year the Grand Majority – the Government Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party – were discussed the following: ‘The majority believe that one should contribute to research to identify the financial risk of SPU’s investments in oil and coal companies, in conjunction with the significant share of oil in Norway’s economy. [[...]] It is natural for knowledge of this risk to be the subject of government assessments in the annual monitoring reports on the Fund’s activities.’;» Can the Minister for Finance confirm that this will be followed up with the message coming to the spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e419	The government follows up all the request decisions that Stortinget takes, and I look forward to submitting the announcement of the State pension fund abroad to spring. It will contain many important analyses and assessments of how to further develop the management of the Fund over time. That said, I think it is important – back to the beginning of the question – to stress that while we are now seeing a fall in oil and gas industry, it will continue to be an important industry for Norway for many years to come. So we don't have to give the impression that now it's over and out for this industry, and now we're going to bet on everything else. It's going to be important for Norway, but it's going to be a little less and give fewer impulses to the Norwegian economy than we expect over the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e426	There will be follow-up questions – first Ola Elvesuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e429	Just because the oil industry is so important, and will be for a long time, my follow-up question goes to the oil and energy minister. We have a lower oil price, and even though it's hard to predict what it's going to be like in the future, there's still a lot of evidence that we're facing a lasting shift, because there's a lot of shale oil on the US market and we have a situation where OPEC has no interest in limiting production to make others profit from it. I came from Lima last week. We're going to have a new climate agreement, hopefully, next year in Paris. To achieve the two-degree objective, we know that we also need to limit demand internationally for oil by 2030. In mature economies, this is already happening today. Then my question becomes: How does the Norwegian Council of State prepare oil and gas industries for a lower oil price, and what measures are being taken? Or is policy still based on the expectation that this is a temporary change and just a fluctuation in price?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e440	I think the representative Elvesuen started very well when he said that it was not a good idea to wonder about the oil price in the future. That's a point of view I share. Then I note that the representative still chose to do so at the end. I'm going to try to avoid it – other than saying that with the prices we see today, production in the countries around us will be reduced quite quickly. We also see that oil consumption is increasing significantly in the world economy, with almost 1 million barrels a day. Then I would like to say to the climate trail, which the representative of Elvesuen also mentioned, that I think we should be proud that the majority in this room for over 50 years has developed a very strict health, environmental and safety regime on Norwegian pedestal, which means that production on Norwegian pedestal is among the most sustainable in the world, also from a climate perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e449	Lisbeth Berg-Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e452	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Finance. The Norwegian economy is changing. The question is how big the changes will be and where the need for conversion will be increased. That the coast from the South to the West, Middle Norway, and even North Norway, will need more than Oslo and Akershus, is not entirely unimaginable. For the Workers' Party, growth is crucial throughout the country. The Minister of Finance and the Government's solution to the need for change are cut in the wealth tax. That the country's leading economists, the OECD and even the finance minister's own department say this is not growth-promoting, yes, it's like splashing water on goose. The fact that three neighbouring companies in Asker and Bærum receive as much tax credits as the inhabitants of 141 of the country's municipalities, according to the Evening Post, does not weaken the government's belief in the effect of this. Can the Minister of Finance explain why she believes that cuts in the wealth tax of three neighbouring companies in Asker and Bærum will contribute to conversion along the coast of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e463	First, let me say that the relief in the property tax next year will amount to almost 600,000 people in Norway. I understand that parts of the opposition need to create the impression that this goes to a few extremely few people, but that is not the case. This goes to almost 600 000 people in Norway next year, and it shows with all manner of clarity how many people actually pay this tax. The main purpose of the government's reduction of wealth taxes is to take seriously all the thousands of thousands of business leaders around the country who have said for years that this is a challenging tax. The representative himself has taken part in discussions on this issue and stated that the tax has many unfortunate aspects – I agree – and that is precisely why it is important to use more instruments in tax reductions to facilitate more competitiveness in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e470	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e473	It is good that the Minister of Finance will come to Stortinget if there is a need to report to spring, before revision. The Minister of Finance said in the reply to Breivik that we have some shock absorbers: krone exchange rate, interest rate and oil fund. Then my question to the Council of State is how the Council of State intends to use the oil fund in the transition we are about to undergo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e481	It gives me an opportunity to elaborate on what the oil fund that shocks actually is about. It's about we're not as vulnerable to sudden changes in oil prices or in currency in our own state budget, as a result of the fact that this disconnection is there, as it's been widely agreed upon. The second discussion, which I assume the representative is now considering, is the possible use of oil money over the state budget in the time to come. That will bring the government back into future budgets, but for next year's budget we have used a proper number of billions of oil, which will be well adapted to the current situation in the Norwegian economy. It is a budget that provides the necessary stimulus for a transition period. But what is important is that we manage to do more things: we need to conduct a tax policy that creates a will for growth and innovation, we need to increase investment, we need to invest in the education system and research, and, not least, we need to implement completely necessary reforms of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e490	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e493	My question also goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. One shall be careful to predict the future oil price, but it has fallen 40 pst. in six months, and that probably means we might have a tough round in front of us. The supply industry in Norway employs 136 000 people, and we see that there are already several thousand fewer employed. It will probably also be strengthened next year, and the availability of some coastal areas will increase more strongly than the average in Norway. Now, the government has tightened the rules of leave. It makes a negative impact on the supplier industry and makes it less able to tackle the kind of wave valleys that we can now be inside. In the past, there has been close cooperation between authorities, industry and trade unions on an active policy to safeguard the competences built up in the supplier industry, in particular the specialised competence of corner stone companies. What measures are currently being taken to ensure valuable expertise in the supply industry during a period of falling prices and investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e506	Let me remind you that we have ten years behind us with significant growth in oil and gas activity and in the value creation from Norwegian base. There is no doubt that this growth in activity has also contributed to a high cost level, which we had to address also with oil prices of $151 per barrel. We definitely have to address that with great weight, at least with the oil prices we see now and – in a short horizon – in front of us in time. The primary responsibility for reducing costs lies with suppliers and operators on a Norwegian base. But on that occasion, I am pleased to say that this government has, for the first time in ten years, in both its budgets reinforced the commitment to research and development in this sector. It is an important contribution on our part to strengthening the competitiveness of the Norwegian petroleum industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e511	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e514	My question is to the Minister of Finance. The representative of Elvesuen said that the oil has been a blessing to Norway. I fully agree with that, and it is very much because in Norway we have a common management of natural resources that we would not have had if the Progress Party had decided when we found the oil. But oil is unfortunately not a blessing to the world, and the international climate problem is precarious. In the transition we are facing, there is a great opportunity to use very much of the expertise, technology and knowledge we have in the oil and gas industries to develop new technologies and new things we can create and live from in the future. However, it assumes that we have a problem that we are too dependent on oil. I have two questions for the Minister of Finance. One is: Does the Minister of Finance agree that Norway is too dependent on oil? And what measures will the Minister of Finance take to ensure that technology and knowledge are transferred to new industries so that we can survive production in Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e525	Let me first say that the situation we now see, with the falling oil price, can also be a positive contribution to the world economy. I don't think we're going to be surprised that this could mean a growth in the world economy next year, which is painfully long-awaited in very many countries. That said, one of the first things this government took up when it joined was the challenges of the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. We'll have plenty of opportunity to discuss that in the future, all the time that the long-awaited transition is coming. That means we're going to see a slightly different oil and gas industry in the years that come, and hopefully see growth and value creation in both the business we have and a business that's not yet born. Good framework conditions are important then, and research and development are not least important, also in order to develop new technologies. I fully agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e532	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e535	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. Let me also use the opportunity to wish her good Christmas on the way to the pulpit. Since the Council of State is responsible for the Church and culture, it has a special responsibility for Christmas, one might say – along with the Minister of Agriculture, perhaps. The cultural promise was the great cultural policy effort of the previous government. Freedom reform has been launched as this government's great initiative. My impression, when she was launched, was probably more that there was a spell of freedom than a peace reform. That was for two reasons: firstly, because she is lingering on a misguided commitment, simply increasing financial support for cultural life stands in the way of freedom. On the contrary, as long as one has the fundamental artistic autonomy, or the fundamental journalistic autonomy, for the sake of the cause, as we have in Norway, economic resources are a means of freedom. It can help to improve quality, and the willingness to invest and to be innovative enhancers with an economic base. Secondly, because the reform does not – as far as I can see – mean a real reform for those who are users of culture, and all those who work in the field of art and culture, who can be marked out. It must be the most important thing, so that the reform actually contributes to quality and diversity and to the development of the arts, culture and media out there. Now 14 months have passed, and no one can expect it to be finished, but one might expect to see the direction and what has happened, so let me ask: if one is a user of cultural or media in Norway, if one is a filmmaker, a dramatist or an actor, if one is a journalist, if one is a bit of a professional and in addition, several hours in a cultural school – how does one have a marked more freedom with the freedom reform of the government in the 14 months that have passed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e548	The President would point out that 'bluff' is not exactly a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e551	Since we are now giving each other good Christmas congratulations, I would like to take the opportunity to wish the representative Solhjell good Christmas back. When we got into government, one of the most important things we saw – and on which we went to elections – was that we had to get more diversity and more power. That is what underlies this freedom reform, which we have also had the opportunity to discuss in the past. Freedom reform can materialise in three different areas, which we believe will contribute to the spread of power. One is that you can spend more on private capital. It will contribute to a greater diversity of cultural services. This means not only that you have to turn to the government grant fund, but that you also have the opportunity to get money from others. We've done that using two concrete examples that I would like to mention. One is the gift-enhancing scheme, which we will strengthen further until next year. With the bet we have now, it's going to raise 150 million. kr in private capital, which may help to strengthen different measures in the field of art and culture. The second thing we've also said is that we want to contribute to, is to bet on increased quality through, among other things. the talent development programme for which there is also a majority in this Chamber, and which I believe will be of great importance in the years to come. We have also said that we want to make regionalisation stronger. It will also help spread power. Yes, we've been in government for 14 months, which the representative must also admit, and we have ambitions. We will be investing in even stronger regionalisation in the coming years, helping to ensure that more people get a greater diversity of offers, and we will contribute to the spread of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e569	Thanks for the answer. I don't expect things to be done after 14 months, but you might see the direction. And apart from one point, I can't see that the answer has in any way meant the first 14 months to general users of culture, artists or practitioners. The exception is the gift enhancement scheme. But then we have to ask ourselves: is it really such that getting more private capital instead of more state capital gives greater freedom, when we know from experience that there are more private capital leaders than transfers from the state? The majority of cultural life is on the outside of that system, such as the film, drama, media and music, which I mention. On the other hand, one has been able to mark a cut in the cultural sphere, which means that many children don't have it, and many practitioners can't participate in it. You can mark clips for movies, which makes one have a bad foundation there. And it's suggested a cut in the press release. So let me repeat a question that is also in the newspaper today: how does it become more free of smaller resources for those who are going to develop that quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e580	Firstly, it is important to stress that there has never been more money allocated to culture than in the budget of the year. It may be that the red-greens had ambitions to use even more, but it's a fact that we spend an incredible amount of money on art, culture, sport, church and belief and belief. With 12.6 billion dollars. I think it's a big room to also be able to increase the activity within what is, when you can also re-disposal. This government has actually done so. We have disagreed on some of the priorities that the red-greens had, and have tried to use the money in another way. I absolutely believe that it is possible to extend the gift enhancement scheme. That's something we're now evaluating. To date, it has been possible to use gift enhancement for e.g. the purchase and rehabilitation of art for museums. That's one of the things we're now assessing whether we're going to change, because it should also be possible to use it for other purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e587	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e590	One of the arrangements that have really developed talents and caused many to have many good experiences is the cultural schools. That's why the red-green government had a bet on it and had the cultural school hour – which this government cut like some of the first thing they did. There are queues to get into the cultural schools, and it's expensive, which allows social differences to develop in terms of who gets the opportunity to develop their talents. It must be a concern for the Minister of Culture that this is allowed to develop. Being able to discover that you have a talent and enjoy cultural expressions, which you get by participating in the cultural schools, is SV busy. Then the question is, why has the Minister of Culture not made a commitment to this, but also contributed to the cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e599	The President will note that the main question was about the reform of freedom, but he is absolutely sure that the Minister of Culture knows the answer to this question as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e602	In the case of cultural schools, as the Minister of Finance has said earlier today, there has been an incredibly large increase in the municipal resources allocated to next year's budget, and there is an opportunity to strengthen, among other things, the provision of services. culture. I have seen a great need, and that is the basis for, to focus more systematically on talent development across the arts and culture sector in Norway. Yes, it is absolutely right that the cultural schools have made a very important contribution, and we want to promise this to include other sectors as well. That is why, in the 2015 budget, we have focused on talent development, according to the Olympic Summit model, because we believe that this is the basis for a more targeted effort over several years. This will have an opportunity to contribute to improving quality and offering a better range of talents in the coming years. We do so in cooperation with, among others. some foundations, and this company will be established in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e609	Hege Haukeland Liadal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e612	This has not been lacking in the government's laws of freedom. The press is to be released, volunteering is to be released, and culture is to be released – it seems as if the government will free itself. So far, this has meant less ambition, cut and a big question about what this means. I want to quote Sharifi in Carte Blanche, which to the October 2014 Newspaper says clearly: "What they say about releasing the art world, I don't understand. I've always felt free, I. What do they mean by the word "free"? Is it to start working with private people in a country where we don't have any culture for it? Shall we have performances that open with commercial items?’ Who inspired the councils of state to reform freedom that no one really knows what is?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e624	As I have said before, both today from this pulpit and in previous debates and interpellations, there is a great variety of activities in the whole country, and the government's reform of freedom is in three areas. One is to bet on increased regionalisation. It will help to make us strong, powerful regions, which are also involved in offering offerings in different arts, music, movies and whatever it may be. The second is that we have said that it will be an advantage in terms of greater freedom to contribute to getting more funding sources to apply for. This has been the basis for us to start by facilitating relationships with increased incentives on private capital. We've got it done with the gift enhancement. We will bet on that, and the Minister of Finance and I are also exploring the possibility of investing in other types of gift enhancements, possibly also with tax incentives, which I believe are also a significant contribution that can help to trigger more private capital. The third area, of course, is that we want a lot more diversity in governance and advice, and will systematically help you get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e629	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e632	In the light of the reform of freedom, I would like to draw attention to an important note in the budget position of the Committee on Culture, which is a comment by the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which is about the government's empowerment of the Norwegian Cultural Council to redispatch between the chapters, which are cultural purposes. We're going to write: ‘The majority consider such a power to act as it stands to be capable, in substance, of bringing together the chapters. This would be a breach of the main principle of distribution and would create considerable uncertainty among many actors, and could create unfortunate competition between the different cultural purposes. The majority believe that it is the responsibility of the Stortinget to provide the necessary political priorities between the objectives. The majority assume that, in its review of the activities of the Council of Culture, the government ensures that these principles are applied.’;» Will the Minister for Culture ensure that these principles are applied? This is really about not giving up the opportunity to also politically influence cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e643	The President expects that there is a point of freedom behind this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e646	There's a lot of freedom in that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e651	That's right. - Councillor Thorhild Widvey.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e654	Of course I will follow up that remark of the majority of the Stortinget. It's incredibly important. During the review of the Norwegian Cultural Council, some changes have been proposed in the organisation of the Culture Council, and some changes have also been proposed in relation to the budget chapters that we have already addressed here in the Grand Duchy. There's different ways we're going to follow it up. Some have to change as we have had it in the budget now, through, among other things. an improvement in efficiency by removing some items and transferring them to others. In other areas, we have to go through the Law on the Council of Culture, and that will give us ample opportunity to have a debate on later in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e659	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e662	‘Freedom’ and ‘freedom reforms’ are demanding terms that certainly have different content depending on who you are talking to, but for the Central Party it is at least in order to provide greater security for people. The use of song, imagery, film and poetry in caring for the elderly gives smiles, inner joy, pleasantness, and it gives freedom from the sense of tongue. That's one way to say it. In the debate on 10 December, the Council of State said: ‘Now it is that the government proposed to wind up the State grant, not necessarily the scheme.’ It's about the cultural walking stick. And my simple question is, is the government basically paid for the cultural spaser stick over the state budget as a measure for older people, so that they get a freedom from the tongue that many people experience in institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e674	As I have also said before, we had a re-prioritisation of the funds: among other things, the Ministry of Health and Health chose a different arrangement of these spaser stickers than that proposed by the Red-Green Government. And with regard to the Ministry of Culture's budget, we proposed to use Power of Sing, which is another way to do it. And then, in addition to the fact that these funds stay the way they are, we have also, through the negotiations that were in Stortinget, got back the 30 million. kr, which has now been transferred to the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation and is part of the framework of the county council. We think it is incredibly nice that measures are also taken for the elderly, but it is primarily the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that there are good cultural offers that benefit the elderly. There are no contradictions in principle, but our initiative was a way of getting a better arrangement on the means that were available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e681	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e684	The state councils that are now sitting here, whether it is the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health or the Minister of Oil and Energy, are actually aiming to spend the money extremely efficiently and well and get a lot out of the money that is being spent. The money on the cultural side is about freedom of expression, about expression. They are not about efficiency in the same way. Because it is a matter of freedom of expression policy, if one defines opinions as the whole of the artistic spectrum, it is the other thing that must be on the basis. Having different sources of funding, seas if they are perhaps not the most effective, is important to ensure that the opinions are as free as possible. But as others have pointed out here, it takes time to establish this with private people, because you have to change people's attitudes. How can public funds be organised in such a way that they are also used to spread power?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e691	I very much agree with the description of how to bet on more activity – that it is important, and that it is not least important for speech that there is a diversity of offers on the cultural side. It's incredibly important. I believe that in order to increase diversity and spread power out of public funds, among other things. must ensure that regional measures are strengthened. Now that we're going through the different budget headings, we're trying to think about how we can strengthen the regions, which, once again, get a bigger chance, because there are several assessments that are used when implementing the different measures. I think it is very important that we have a chance, that more heads assess it, and that there are indeed several measures that are being offered. We're very concerned about it, not least in terms of when we appoint people to rule and counsel. Then it's also important that we have people with different backgrounds who can get the opportunity to join in and brand their stamps on the different cultural institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e698	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e702	The Minister of Culture can stand. Politics is prioritizing, and the government's main priority is a $8 billion tax bill. kr. As a result, many expert councils have become budgetary agents. This is very clear for cultural purposes in the Minister of Culture's budget. There's a growth of 1.1 pst. With a salary increase of about 3.2 pst. It is obvious that the Council of State has had to cut to put its priorities into place. We have heard that the Council of State has gone well through its budget and has given priority to what she did not want to carry on. The cultural walking stick, which was started under the government of Stoltenberg, was precisely – as the representative Lundtigen said – to give older people and those living in institutions access to culture. The Council of State is now proposing that the measure be phased out. That's what's in the budget, other excuses don't make any sense. So when the Minister of Culture has to find room for his political priorities, it's the cultural spaser stick that's being closed. Instead, the money is used for the gift-enhancing scheme, a scheme whereby the public is obliged to automatically increase its allocations when private gifts are given for the purchase of art and the rehabilitation of museum buildings. Then the question becomes to the Council of State: why does the Minister of Culture give priority to the fact that the elderly and those living in institutions are going to lose their offer to finance what is the Council of State's spice budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e715	As I said earlier, the funds for the cultural spa are passed on to the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In addition, we have proposed, inter alia: a strengthening of the power of singing, which we also believe should benefit the elderly, both in institutions and elsewhere. The key to singing is cooperation between a number of national organisations, institutions and some municipalities. 21 national organisations and four national institutions are involved. Cooperation is established, inter alia: with eight pilot municipalities, including Namsos, Steinkjer and Levanger. Experience and new research show that there are increasingly strong stories about the effect and potential of the song. Choosing to target the funds in another way can't be criticised and said is a cut. In addition, I would remind you that due to the negotiations that have taken place in Stortinget, we have received a majority in favour of the continuation of the cultural heritage through the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Policies are priorities. Among other things, the cultural niece package does not seem to be a good basis for us to spend money from taxpayers to, or to give priority to, companies having the means to apply for a cultural experience in the lunch break. I think it's very nice that companies do it, but my experience is that it gives companies the opportunity to use their own funds for – not that it's taxpayers' money to go to it. That is why we have, for example: used these funds for something else. Politics is prioritizing, and we have to make sure that we do that all the time. We're doing what we think is right, and we're glad that we've received so much support for this in Stortinget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e726	I am recording that the Council of State is now saying that it was right to give away 15 million. kr in its budget for the cultural spa. It was right to re-prioritize 15 million. kr in the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, away from the Cultural Spa and replacing it with 5 million. kr to Kraftak for song. Then I have to ask the Minister of Culture, who is concerned with a reform of freedom, whether culture should benefit everyone: does she not underestimate those who live in institutions, and older people, when she wants to replace general cultural expressions, varied cultural expressions, with only songs to the elderly? And does she not underestimate the cultural workers who usually help to get the cultural spaser stick out to the elderly and to those who live in institutions? Is it not a downgrading of the professional knowledge of health workers when the Council of State suggests that they can take over the offer of singing at an institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e733	In fact, it is the responsibility of municipalities to provide cultural services to the different institutions. It is not that it is just the means that have been provided through the cultural spa, which have benefited older people around the various institutions and other places where older people have had the opportunity to enjoy cultural services. With the investment in next year's budget, we believe that this is a good basis for strengthening cultural provision for the elderly. So it's also that there's been a re-priority on it. We are a minority government, and there has been a strengthened offer to the elderly in the negotiations that have been in the Great Britain with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and I am very happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e738	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tove Karoline Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e741	«Elderness of the ages» has been cut in the Cultural Spaserstick. So the government has seriously claimed that it can be replaced by teaching nurses to entertain the elderly. I believe that this suggests that there is neither respect for the professional cultural offer nor for the important job of developing methods of using culture as a communication tool, for example. in meeting with demente. This is a work that the development centres all over the country are doing today, funded by the Health Directorate. But this massive criticism has led to the fact that you kind of have to close the money back to the cultural spaser stick, pretty much the quack, you ask me, it's come into a pretty crowded county frame. My questions are as follows: How will the Minister of Culture ensure that this money is used for performances and concerts for the elderly? And what will the Council of State do if it turns out that the money is now going to go to the road, water and sewage instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e748	Now these funds have been transferred to the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, and I feel reasonably confident that they will benefit this particular target group. I have no mistrust of municipalities and counties, that they will not follow up on the signals coming from Stortinget. So it's now like this that we're a minority government, and we're dependent on getting through the things we want, and some things we see that we're getting through, and some things we don't get through. Among other things, this re-priority in the budget has actually contributed to the fact that there has been a rise for this target group in next year's budget because the Christian People's Party and the Left in the negotiations with our parties here on the Stortinget have contributed to the arrival of 30 million. Extra kroner. So you should really be positive and happy that you've managed to get to this situation that is really, and not make it look like this is a cut -- that's the opposite that's actually the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e753	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e756	The Christian People's Party is, and was, occupied by the cultural spaserstock. If we had been chosen from the top shelf, we would have wanted the 30 million. kr had been on the health budget. For we are connected as human beings – spiritually, culturally, physically and mentally. The Christian People's Party nevertheless trusts, after the negotiations, that the county councils around the country ensure that the money goes to the cultural walking stick, and not least to the elderly. Because they really deserve it. The Christian People's Party does not see this matter as a rematch next year. How will the Council of State be made visible The cultural spaserstock as an important and enriching offer into Norwegian care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e763	I very much agree with the representative. I think it is incredibly important for older people to take action in institutions, and that this purpose is absolutely well intended. I also think it is right that it should be transferred to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. At least I have no mistrust that municipalities and counties will actually use these funds in a good and effective way. In this connection, I would also like to say that, as it has been, the county council has been allocated funds via the Ministry of Culture. But we know that the Ministry of Health and Welfare is sending their funds to the Ministry of Culture, and we are passing them on to the County Council, upon request. So there are over 300 municipalities that have spent time and resources writing applications and reports for some very small grants. With this budget agreement, these funds are now transferred to the counties so that they themselves can distribute the funds with the least red tape possible. I think that is really a strength for this matter, and I feel reasonably confident that it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e770	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e774	I think the reason why this case has received a lot of attention in relation to the amount involved is that it goes to the heart of some sort of ideological or political question about how one looks at things, simply: Is this – or for that matter, the cultural nesting package – a type of activity for which someone else should be responsible – if someone else wants to finance it, they should do it – or is culture such a central part of life, as health, as work, as school, that it is the core of what the public should contribute to for older people to have access to? Is culture so important for the elderly, for people at work, that it's an important part of the basic thing to do? I can think of asking the Minister of Culture about this. Does she think that not only song, but all kinds of cultural expressions are such a fundamental and important part of life that it is important that people at both their jobs and institutions, when they get older, can access it, and that it is a public task to contribute to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e781	The number is out. Councillor Widvey, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e784	I think culture is very important to us all, no matter how old we are – whether we are children, young people, or, not least, adults and older people. It is incredibly important that the authorities ensure that we have a comprehensive cultural offer, so that it can benefit as much as possible. I'm saying that politics is giving priority. I noticed that the red-greens sat for eight years and thought it was incredibly important that the taxpayers paid the entertainment during lunch in some companies, while we don't think it was a very good solution. It's great that people are given the opportunity to be entertained during their lunch break – I think it's incredibly good – but I also know that the companies have the opportunity to pay for this themselves. I would rather spend this money for something else. In the case of older people in an institution, it is documented — and this is precisely what the Ministry of Health and Health did when they proposed a different device — that eight out of ten elderly people in a nursing home have dementia. And it's well documented that integrated use of song and music in care and day-to-day activities dampens anxiety, dampens depression and helps to dampen degeneration and the need for drug use. So I mean another way to spend this money must be something to have a discussion about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e793	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e805	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Ferhat Güven to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has left. Question 2, from the representative Heidi Greni to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be taken up by the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e822	This question, from the representative of Ferhat Güven to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e825	‘A living centre is important in an economically sustainable urban structure. Business Improvement District is a system where a majority of traders in an area can decide that everyone should join forces to invest in measures that strengthen the competitiveness of an area. In order for this to be possible in Norway, it is necessary to amend the law. Will the Council of State propose such a change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e837	The government is concerned that our cities and towns should be attractive, competitive and sustainable. Good centre development and live centre trading are an important part of this. Urban and centre development is primarily a local responsibility, and I trust that the municipalities, the business community and the residents will develop the cities in a good way. However, I would like to support the work by contributing to the development of new knowledge and forward-looking tools. The Ministry has therefore carried out a number of knowledge and investigation projects on trade and centre development in this year. Centre development is characterised by many owners and actors. There is therefore a debate on whether there is a need for instruments to ensure more committed and targeted cooperation between different local actors, on centre development and on centre trading. Business Improvement District, BID, is one of the options discussed both nationally and internationally. The Government has therefore provided financial support to the Norwegian Centre for Development in 2013 and 2014 to investigate a possible Norwegian BID scheme. The project was initiated by the Stoltenberg government in 2012. The investigation entitled ‘Vitalisation of the Centre — A Norwegian BID scheme’ has now been completed and is under assessment in the Ministry. BID is a precise delimited area, e.g. a street or quarter where, by vote, traders agree to invest together in measures that strengthen the competitiveness of the area. The measure is set out in a vitalisation plan. Business itself is taking the initiative to set up a BID scheme, defines the vitalisation plan and is responsible for its implementation. The work is done in cooperation with the municipality. In order for an adopted revitalisation plan to be able to oblige all the economic operators concerned in the defined area to contribute financially, it is necessary to provide for a legal framework or a separate legislation. Any BID scheme raises several fundamental issues that need to be considered in greater detail. The Ministry will assess whether it is desirable to proceed with the introduction of a Norwegian BID scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e852	I thank you for a very good answer. Although Höie is a substitute for the municipal minister, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a follow-up question. If he wants to answer that, he'll have to decide for himself. In Trondheim they are dedicated to being a candidate for a pilot project. Could there be anything to consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e859	I know well about the arrangement from my own hometown, Stavanger, and it's been many years since stakeholders also there took this up and it seemed interesting. There are several good experiences with the BID scheme from abroad. It increases the income of the shops and other traders in the area in which it is covered. You get more employees, it increases the value of the properties, you get more involvement and involvement from public authorities, local politicians and the audience, and it gives you ownership and responsibility for the common areas. So there are positive experiences in this area. Then it also raises some fundamental questions, linked to the fact that one through the law also goes against the private ownership of those who might not want to be part of this. As I said in my main response, the introduction of a BID system in Norway requires a separate legal framework and legislative proposals, so that it is not possible to carry out probationary procedures without one also having to implement these legislative proposals. There is now an assessment in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e866	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e882	This issue has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has left. We will then proceed to question 3, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Transport. Hansson doesn't seem to be here. Then we go on to question 4, which is from the representative of Arild Grande to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e891	‘In the process of Innst by Stortingen. 14 S decided to ask the government to look at the investments and the building of competence made by Rock City, and to assess whether there are assignments that can be placed there to take care of this centre, before a final decision is taken on future financing. [[2014-2015]] After the majority of the Grand Council upheld the government's proposal to cut the subsidy to Rock City, the board had to notify employees of redundancies. How does the Council of State intend to follow up the decision of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e898	The size has decided that the State contribution to Rock City should be reduced to 1.9 million. krones for 2015. The grant may only be granted if the basis for further operations remains in place. Originally, Rock City was part of an experience center for pop and rock. Rockheim in Trondheim was to be supplemented by a centre of expertise for popular music in Namsos. Since local and regional funds were at the bottom of the state grant, the centre could also accommodate a museum of trombone rock. After the Stortingen budgetary procedure last week, the company reported a total of 4,3 million. kr in public appropriations in 2015 is not the basis for the operation of Rock City Namsos in 2015 and that the activity will end in the first six months. The government has asked the government to look at the investments and the build-up of skills made by Rock City, and to assess whether there are any assignments that can be put there to take care of this. Of course, the government will follow the decision of the Storting. I have already asked for a statement from Rock City, which states that it is in a very difficult operating situation for 2015. The county has reduced its grant equivalent to that of the country, while the municipality maintains its grant at the same level as in 2014. As a result of high fixed costs, Rock City budgets a deficit of NOK 978,000 for next year. On this basis, the Management Board has terminated all its staff from 1 March 2015, with the exception of the Executive Director, who is employed until 1 April 2015. In addition, the rental contract with the municipality of Namso has been terminated from 1 December 2015. The municipality of Namso is the owner and the largest creditor in Rock City. They have clearly indicated that they do not have the opportunity to grant more funds for the operation of Rock City in 2015, but that they do not want to bankrupt the company either. Rock City has made an agreement with the municipality of Namso to ensure that the Tronderrock Museum is kept open every day also in 2015. A number of other major and smaller projects in which Rock City has been involved are also expected to go as usual in cooperation with different actors. This applies, inter alia, to: a research project on the streaming of live concerts and studio recordings and many other things that also go on. Rock City is in favour of Storting's stance on the cultural budget and, according to the statement, wishes to contribute to the success of Storting's desire to redefine tasks. They think it is appropriate that expectations for further work are based on the prevailing assumptions for the music industry in general and Rock City in particular. I will also immediately ask the owner, the municipality of Namso, to supplement the company's statement. On the basis of Rock City’s statement so far, the grant for the first half of 2015 from the Ministry of Culture will be paid as normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e917	I thank you for your answer. It is clearly a serious situation for the company and for the municipality of Namso, who have great obligations in this regard. This is because it is possible to lose both skills built up there and essential parts of the activities that have been gradually built up and which have a large impact on both artists, industry and the whole country. Once a decision has been taken by the Storting to ask the government to take the initiative to ensure just competence, it is people – employees – that is the first thing to talk about. The question is then: When we look at what the Council of State says, that there are announced redundancies, and that one sees a gradual winding-up of the company during already 2015, what can the Council of State do in concrete terms, other than order statements, in order to ensure the competence of one sees a future for this initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e922	As I said, after we have now received this statement, we have decided that the grant from the Ministry of Culture for the first half of 2015 will be paid as normal. The size has decided that it should be stepped down to 1,9 million. kr for 2015. That means that for the first half it pays as normal to now. It's true that we, as I said, have asked for an explanation. We got it. We will also ask for a statement from the owner, the municipality of Namso, and ask that they supplement the company's statement. It's known that Rock City has worn off for years. During the first two years of reconstructing, Rock City accumulated a deficit of approx. 11 million. kr. In 2013, measures were taken to try to save it, but they have been struggling for several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e931	Thank you for your answer. When the Council of State says that the grant will be paid as normal, does that mean that the level for 2014 is continued for the first half of 2015? Well, in that case, that's the new signal. Finally, the second question: one also says in the decision of Stortinget that one wants a process in order to evaluate various tasks that can be added to Rock City. One possibility is the continuation of the initiative, which may also have to carry out work on a new mandate that may be more concrete and defined. Another thing is maybe to consider new bets that can be added to Rock City to maintain just the competence and a good work that is going on. I ask to make sure that this is a process that becomes real by the Council of State, and that the Council of State takes the initiative to take such a review in close cooperation with the actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e942	As I said, the Stortinget has now adopted the budget framework for 2015, and this grant is to be escalated to 1.9 million. kr. It is also such that the grant can only be granted if the basis for the operation remains in place. I have, through this statement, assured myself that it will be. With that in mind, we are going to pay out the grant for the first half of 2015, which would normally happen. As I also said, we have asked for a statement from Rock City – and we have received it. We will also ask the owner, the municipality of Namso, to supplement the company's statement in view of how they view the situation. Namso's municipality is the owner, and it's very important for us to get feedback on what they've been thinking, but of course I intend to follow up the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e949	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e956	President, thank you for your perseverance with my efforts to make an extra effective use of working time. Thanks also go to the Minister for Transport. The question submitted by our website is: ‘In 2002, the Stortinget adopted a trasé corridor for the Ringeriksbahn via Åsa. The main reason for Stortinget’s no to the Kroksund option in 2002 was the major impact on nature and vulnerable wetlands. The State Road Service and the Railway Agency now recommend that the route be nevertheless placed in a common corridor for E16 and the Ringeriksbanen via Kroksund. Will the Stortinget be presented with a new case concerning the choice of the Trasé Corridor for Ringeriksbanen and E16 before further planning continues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e967	The Ringerix Railway has a long history. I'm not going to go through the whole history now, but the path and where it's going to go has been discussed a number of times since the Stortinget decided in 1992 to support the work of curtailing the Bergensbanen. So the decision was taken 22 years ago. As the representative points out, ten years later Stortinget decided that further planning of the route should be based on the corridor over Åsa and not on Kroksund. However, in the 2008 draft budget, a majority of the Transport and Communications Committee expressed the wish to review the Kroksund option. Also in the national transport plan notification for the period 2014-2023, the government of Stoltenberg II stated that further investigation should consider options for deployment with double-track and higher speed standards. This joined Stortinget. In the light of these findings, which have thus come after 2002, the main thrust of the Communication was the need to review the trajectory in the further investigation. Today's government has also taken a more offensive approach to the Ringeriks track than has been foreseen before. We have seen the Ringerix Railway as part of the intercity route towards Oslo, and we want to use resources more efficiently and have therefore coordinated work between the Road Administration and the Railway Works a little differently than before. The Ministry of Transport therefore commissioned the Railway Agency on 20 December last year to re-examine various aspects of the Ringeriks track, including the trajectory. A three-stage investigation is now being carried out together with the State Road Service. The first two phases are complete. The last part shall be available on 31 January 2015. In phase two, transport modes recommend that the Åsa option be abandoned and that common road and rail planning be implemented over Kroksund. I have noticed that the transport modes provide clear advice in their report. There are several reasons why they have this recommendation, including: those assessments related to speed standard and double track. In addition, it has been suggested that a new E16 should be passed over Kroksund, a pre-requisite that was not available when the Stortinget dealt with a trajectory for Ringeriksbanen in 2002. It is stated that the decision-making basis for the transport modes is subject to external quality assurance — that is the normal procedure, so far as possible. As mentioned in the 2015 government budget, the government will decide on further planning when the decision base has been completed. The Ringeriksbanen is a very large and important project, and I therefore find it natural that we return to Stortinget in an appropriate way once the government has dealt with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e982	Then I note that the Council of State confirms that he will come back to Stortinget with a trasé option, and I appreciate that. In the meantime, however, I would like to remind you that in May this year, the Environment Directorate raised its objection to the line through Kroksund, where they wrote that building E16 through the central parts of the Røyse peninsula and the Northern Tyrifjord wetland system, which were subject to international protection obligations under the Ramsar Convention, would have a significant negative impact on cultural landscapes and natural diversity. Norway has therefore committed itself to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020. This is one of the most biodiverse areas in the East, and the question then arises: What is the Council of State's assessment of continuing to consider the passage of a road and a railway through such a valuable area, contrary to bio-medical advice and international commitments on the cessation of biodiversity loss?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e987	There are many interests that need to be heard when building a new road and a new railway, and in this context both. I myself have been in the area of inspection with local rapporteurs and have met with local stakeholders, both those who are in favour and those who are opposed, just to get a picture and an idea of the issues being discussed. This is also something that the Road Administration and the Railway Agency must emphasise in their planning work, and there are many public authorities that take those views into account. Finally, there will be a balance between benefits versus disadvantages, where local views will also be stressed heavily, and this will arise when a decision is made on where to go. But that's how no one will be able to veto the project alone, this is the sum of the benefits and disadvantages that are balanced against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e992	I would remind you that when such an area is protected by an international convention, it is because it has exceptional protection value internationally. It is precisely in order to protect it from a continuous series of local and national assessments where the pressure will continue to be economic and other more or less short-term considerations, at the expense of biodiversity. That's why we lose biodiversity in Norway. But this also has another side, namely that the Stortinget has decided that all traffic growth around the big cities will be taken through public transport and bicycles. The question then is: how does the Council of State think a new and enlarged E16 is harmonizing with these plans, i.e. building a new motorway into Oslo from Hönefoss?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e999	I can assure you first that environmental considerations will be difficult to assess when making such decisions, and that is why there are many different actors who take care of the different interests. Then it will be up to political authorities to make an overall assessment of benefits and disadvantages. When it comes to decisions and the goal that more people should ride, go and take trains, the decision that we are also putting ourselves behind is part of the climate agreement and part of what the government is governing. Now it has to be said that it is so far from Henefoss to Oslo that believing that a large proportion of the population of Henefoss commuting against the Oslo area will choose times and bikes as the primary means of origin, I do not believe. Therefore, it is important that we look at local measures where local measures are sensible, but that we also look at building up infrastructure that binds the country together. Connecting Henefoss closer to Oslo by rail I think is the best way for more people to choose to travel with something other than a car, as many people do today. It is not natural to travel to Hønefoss via the Drammen on the railway, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1008	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In Stortinget there is expressed broad resistance to Oslo University Hospital Plan on Giant Hospital Campus Oslo. Among the majority parties in particular, the Progress Party and the Left have gone out clearly, now at the end of the budget debate, when the spokesperson of the Left said that ‘we must scrape the OUS Campus project’. When asked how they can only continue the project without political clarification, the OUS Director has shown that the Council of State is being kept informed. How does the Council of State view that the OUS continues its use of resources on Campus Oslo, and has he given this green light?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1017	Oslo University Hospital managed the report Idéphase OUS – Campus Oslo in June. After that they have carried out an external quality assurance of the report and it has been out for consultation. Proposals for further work on Campus Oslo will be discussed in the Board of Directors of Oslo University Hospital tomorrow, December 18. The representative of Bøhler shows that there is widespread resistance to the giant hospital Campus Oslo. I have noticed that the director of Oslo University Hospital is proposing a revised report to be submitted in February, taking into account a number of hearings. It will include, among others: proposed to address the needs of local hospitals in the capital area in the future and the need for a possible new local hospital in the east/south of the city. This is in line with several hearings, including: from the Municipality of Oslo. In this work Aker will be one of several possible sites. I also notice that several alternatives need to be explored further. This concerns the collection of Gaustad south, the split solution of Gaustad south/Ulløl and the zero option. The zero option with continued operation at today's locations is an option that still has to be included. Whatever strategy is chosen, the reality is that all the main locations will be used for many years to come. Oslo University Hospital has a difficult building situation. Campus Oslo is about getting important clarifications on how to develop the hospital in the long term – a development that in any case is going to take place in stages over very many years. I'm not going to stop Oslo University Hospital's work with Campus Oslo and the other options for hospital development in the capital city area. The health undertaking is responsible for establishing the necessary plans for further operations, both in the long and short term. I think it's important that Oslo University Hospital has a long-term plan. Oslo University Hospital also works with the need for short- and medium-term building measures and how to develop them within the current regulation plan at the Rikshospitalet. I would also like to point out that Health South-East has notified me that it may be relevant to request investment loans from 2016 in order to carry out completely necessary upgrades at Oslo University Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1032	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer. It is positive that the Council of State emphasises that the zero option – using the existing hospitals, bet on upgrading them – to have it as a plan, that it still has to be included, that Oslo University Hospital should also notice, because we have the feeling, we who are following the process, that it is a little pro forma, that you have with the other options, while there is one main track that runs very hard, that is to expand this giant hospital. The council says he's not going to stop that process. The problem is that many of the major health issues in Oslo – the need for a new metropolitan guard, the need for a new clinic building on the Radium Hospital, the need for major rehabilitations of Ullevål and the need to use Aker hospitals as a local hospital again – are in trouble because you have this long-term plan for 2040 and want to phase things into it. So my question is whether the Council of State doesn't see it as problematic that in the next third year you just let this process roll, and that it thus affects short-term decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1037	If it was like this process just rolled and rolled and didn't come to an end point, I would agree with the representative's concern, but now we are approaching a time when, among other things, we are approaching. The Management Board of Oslo University Hospital shall deal with the matter. It's important when you're dealing with the medium-term solutions, that you know where to end. And then for me, as Minister of Health and Care, to go in as the owner and stop the investigation of various long-term alternatives will take out Oslo University Hospital and Oslo's population an opportunity to assess whether that is a good option. Now good consultation has been received in this phase, which has also led to adjustments to what management at Oslo University Hospital has proposed to its board, among others. a solution with the further development of a local hospital function in Oslo South and Oslo East, which I know the representative has been very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1042	My concern is that there is going to be a lot of time to play in doing what you should do with the hospital situation in Oslo, because you're doing a different track, namely Campus Oslo. I understand that the Council of State will let the hospital be fully investigated, but it is a problem if you constantly find out that you need to have new rounds of hearings and investigations and continue in such a main track, while at Stortinget, a number of the parties stand out against that solution, Campus Oslo, because you think that such a difficult investment in one place, building such a huge hospital, as in the plan for 2040, is not a response to the tasks that we have now for the first three to ten years. So I'm just concerned about asking the Council of State, isn't he worried that you're wasting a lot of time here?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1047	This state council is basically always concerned, it's a lot to be concerned about, but I've had meetings with the management of Oslo University Hospital and the newly elected trustees to discuss the situation in this area. My impression is that Oslo University Hospital is also working well to maintain the building conditions in the more short and medium term. There are also concrete plans that include the two ideal hospitals in Oslo. So I'm very concerned about what also the representative Bohemian is concerned about, that when you have these kinds of processes, there shouldn't be any skin processes, there should be a real assessment of the different options. I have also underlined this to Health South-East on repeated occasions, and I believe that what is now proposed to the Management Board of Oslo University Hospital also implies that one goes further with several alternatives, and that one has not locked itself to one solution. But then it is important, I think, as the representative is also involved, to arrive at a conclusion also on the long-term strategy, so that one knows which steps to take along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1058	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Per Olaf Lundteg.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1061	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe, I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Health and Social Affairs: ‘Golden rule’ has been introduced by the government in the field of mental health protection to ensure that the growth of drug use and psychiatry, individually, is greater than the growth of somatic diseases. Nevertheless, a number of health firms report planned psychiatry cuts to next year. Health North is also criticized for not complying with the ‘golden rule’. Can the Council of State explain how the growth in mental health protection will be in the various enterprises in 2015, including Health Nord, and whether municipalities are able to deal with more patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1070	Annual work on mental health protection for adults decreased from 2011 to 2013. This government will reverse the negative trend and, for 2014, has reintroduced the golden rule that there should be higher growth in mental health protection and drug use than in somatics at regional level. In 2014, growth has been measured through costs, waiting time and activity. For 2015, I will also follow developments in the number of annual works. There is a clear premise that the golden rule is being followed up in the ministry. All health regions have expressed a clear intention to achieve higher levels of activity in drug treatment and mental health protection than in somatic settings. Municipalities are obliged to provide mental health care to the population. Following the 2008 escalating plan, escalators amounted to 3.4 billion. kr transferred to the base of the municipal framework. As of 2015, the government has earmarked 100 million. DKK for municipal expenditure and increased the free income of municipalities by 100 million. for mental health work. This does not mean that all municipalities have reached the same distance, but the obligations are very clear. I am concerned and have clarified that the municipalities and the specialist health service need to work together to solve the problems. The evaluation of the ACT teams shows that the number of lay days and forced use decreases significantly when specialist health services and municipalities cooperate. The interaction reform, which is to be continued, obliges municipalities and enterprises to conclude cooperation agreements. In the governance requirements of health regions, there are clear indications of bets on outpatient forms of work. In the 2015 mission document, I would like to ask regional health companies to present plans to ensure that mental health and drug treatment are prioritised by 1 March 2015. If the reintroduction of the Golden Rule does not prove to be sufficient to increase the effort, I will also consider further steps to ensure that mental health and drug priorities are given in the future. Final budgetary decisions for each regional health undertaking will be available in the new year. That is, I have carried out business meetings and submitted the mission document for 2015. In the case of municipalities, I expect them to fulfil their obligations in cooperation with the specialist health service and will closely monitor the development of annual work in the field of mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1083	I would like to thank you for your answer. It is essential that efforts in the field of mental health and drug use be increased. The government has introduced the golden rule and has made it a large, wavy flag. It's important. What we're now discussing is the content of the golden rule. The Council's response gives the impression that there are the number of yearbooks that are the measure of whether a rate or not. In response to the representative Toppe, the Council of State has said that the number of annual works is a useful indicator. Does it mean, as the Council of State says, that there are now the number of annual works – that is, staffing – that is the decisive amount of the content of the Golden Rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1090	It was my predecessor as Health Minister of the Right who introduced the Golden Rule, Ansgar Gabrielsen. It was to ensure the results of the escalation plan. At that time, there was a rule that measured costs, i.e. resource use in terms of costs. That rule was removed by the previous government. When this government decided to reintroduce the rule, I was also concerned about getting the patient perspective into the rule and therefore added activity in terms of the number of patients treated and waiting time, as well as resource efforts. As I said in my previous answer, I am going to expand the golden rule in 2015 to include annual works. This means that it will also be measured at annual work, and that is when the sum of these will give me an idea of whether the health regions are following the mission that is very clear and clear to me, namely that efforts in this area are going to grow, and it is going to grow more than the efforts in somatic health within the indicators we are drawing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1097	Now the Council of State says that it should also be measured in relation to annual work. So we're just at one of the points: what's that in addition to that? The Council of State has said in response to the representative Toppe in letter of 12 December that if healthcare companies have systems that allow a single patient consultation/service to be counted several times, contrary to the legislation, this is serious. Is there anything that says that you can count a consultation several times, contrary to the law? Does the legislation allow to count consultations several times, and can one thus say that the golden rule is being met?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1104	No, the answer to that is no. That is why I have chosen to send the practice reported from Health Mid-Norway in this area to the Health Directorate for an assessment of whether that practice is in line with the legislation or not. It is the Health Directorate who has the competence and authority to assess it. Then I say that I am going to extend the golden rule in my 2015 mission document to annual works. This means that in addition to the other criteria for targets contained in today's mission document, I believe that we need to look at the use of resources here, but we also need to look at the results and the patient perspective when assessing the golden rule. It does not help to increase annual work only if this does not result in better access to services for patients. That's why we also have to measure activity within this area, but we're going to do it the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1115	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘It is used as an argument for the closure of special item 4 at East Marka under Health Mid-Norway that day-care facilities have been built up in other health establishments that will provide people with severe anxiety disorders with an equally good offer. How good daily provision for these patients is built up by other health care establishments, or is outpatient treatment considered to be a good substitute for previous daily places?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1124	Until now, patients from all over the country have been referred to East Marka, who has been the leader in this field, and many have received good help. But now that there has gradually become a good competence for anxiety disorders available to all healthcare professionals, the patient base for today’s operation — and I think of the day’s work — in the east of the country will be reduced in the next few years. The treatment offer is now added to approx. 30 district psychiatric centres and outpatient clinics for children and young people. Treatment will mainly be outpatient, but health regions will also need to provide daily services when necessary. The structure is in line with the plan for the implementation of documented activities such as the treatment of coercive disorders. What is the right response during the different stages of a treatment course needs to be assessed according to the individual’s needs. Daily places are not an end in themselves, but should be an available instrument where necessary. It is positive that the treatment provision at East Marka receives good feedback from both relatives and patients. Although East Marka has not played a role as a national competence centre, the offer has contributed to an important development work that will strengthen the supply of people with anxiety throughout Norway. What is now happening should not be described as a degradation. What we're actually doing is strengthening the treatment provision for patients with severe anxiety disorders by making it easier for them to access good health care closer to where they live. I would also like to refer to my written answer to question No. Arnstad's representative. 299 in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1131	It is probably part of the patients who will receive a better offer of outpatient treatment. There's no doubt about it. It is positive that it is built around the various health establishments, and it is positive with these OCD teams, which will probably also provide a certain group with a better range of services. The problem is that East Germany has treated a group of patients of the very sickest who will not be able to benefit from outpatient treatment in the same way as some others. In addition, they have also treated other anxiety disorders that do not necessarily go into these new OCD teams that are built up, for example. is agoraphobia a disorder with which a bet will receive help, either outpatiently or through the teams that are built up. So here the Council of State takes it for granted that a well-developed outpatient offer will be an offer for everyone, but what's the problem with the degradation of Eastern Marka, is that it won't be. You'll be left with a group of patients who will really lose their offer when the 24 hours are built down. Does not the Council of State not see that these disorders require a different offer from what they now have in health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1138	I think I have a different view of the situation than the one that the representative here is expressing. I have been engaged in this matter for many years. After the Norwegian OCD association Ananke was given a searchlight on the lack of treatment for people with coercive disorders, I took this up in an interview with the former Minister of Health Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen. She followed up this interpellation in a very good way and started an important work based on the environment that was at the time in the East. She also developed and implemented an impressive job of changing the treatment for this group of patients, which now provides amazing results. It has since that part of the patients who came from the rest of the country, and needed to live in the East, no longer have that need, because they get a better offer locally. This is a development also supported by the patient association for this patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1143	I recognise that for some of the patients now there is a good offer built up, perhaps especially in the case of coercive disorders and for those who can benefit from outpatient treatment. But I think it's a little sad that one then so easily ignores the other group of the most ill with other anxiety disorders. That's what my question is about. Now we are in the unfortunate situation that this will be closed from the turn of the year, while the Council of State in its response to Lundtigen said that he would go through the question related to this in March next year. It will then be too late for this entry to assess whether there are some aspects of the work they are doing in the East, which should be continued in some context. In other relevant matters, the Council of State has now said that he has an ongoing dialogue with health businesses. Is it not the case that the Council of State can also include in the ongoing dialogue that one should try to maintain this for a transitional period, until the Council of State and the Government get the overview they have said about the offer of the most ill mentally ill patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1152	In the discussion about the golden rule and the offer of mental health, I have been very clear that going from 24 hours to more outpatient, decentralised treatment is a desired development. With regard to the offer that one sees being made, I will refer to an article that is online in today's Evening Post, from the leading professional community in this field, which Norsk Patient Association is also involved. They say, ‘Over these days, Norway is developing the treatment offer for patients with comorbidity. Norway is simply becoming a world leader in terms of a professionally thought-out treatment provision for this patient group. And, in particular, the offer includes both children and adults.» So far, more than 20 specialised treatment teams have been established, and during 2015 the offer is extended to 30 teams covering all Norwegian health companies. In addition, there will also be daily places for those patients who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1166	‘There has been concern about the process of a new common hospital in the North Sea and in the valley of Rome. It has also appeared that 7 out of 10 of the last board members have been closed. It would be interesting to know if there has been a signal coming from the government to Health Mid-Norway about plotting. What does the Council of State mean is the cause of the unrest that has arisen, and does he think that the process has gone right?"
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1173	I think there are many reasons for the turmoil that has arisen. After former health and care ministers decided that there would be a common hospital for North Moravia and Romesdal, concerns were expected in advance when the hospital was to be located. There have also been concerns in previous trials that have been undertaken to clarify the hospital issue in the last ten years. Once you have reached a conclusion, questions have been asked about the legitimacy of the decision, processes and options. My predecessors have rescinded the cards, and the matter has been postponed. I don't want to. I will also take political responsibility for the conclusion, not push the health region ahead of me, but draw a final conclusion after an independent assessment in this important and difficult case. So my position will be open, and I'll justify it. That the managing director of Health More and Romsdal, Astrid Eidsvik, went off just before she would resign to the board, has created uncertainty. I think it was sad that she went off, and I would remind you that she nevertheless said to the NRK the same day: "I now want to see that the work on matters continues as planned, even if I no longer lead it. This matter is fast to be decided now." There are also questions about my role and contact with the board of directors in Health Mid-Norway. I believe that everyone has come to realize that I have not instructed the board of directors to take one solution to the work. It has been proved by the case investigation which is now under consideration in the two boards, and which will also be the basis for my decision. It is quality assured and the three options are equivalently determined. I also have no idea what is going to be the outcome of the proceedings of the two board meetings, nor have I seen that any of the board members have expressed themselves for being instructed. What is in any case being asked is whether I have ever expressed my opinions to the current or former director of Health Mid-Norway. That is what I have chosen not to answer because this kind of confidential contact is legitimate and in accordance with normal contact between the owner and the director. I would like to clarify the reason for this in the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1187	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I want to follow this track a little bit more. First, I would like to stress that my critical questions to the Council of State in this matter are not about the location of a new common hospital in itself, but about the process to lease up to the location option. For me, it is important to make sure that both options have had a fair chance of being chosen, and that what has happened is politically viable. In this context, it is very interesting whether the Council of State has influenced the process or not. It is quite legitimate for a health minister to have opinions about location, but it must happen in an open landscape. The council has taken note that he has not instructed anyone in Health Mid-Norway in any way, but my question is: Can the council also confirm that he has not expressed his view on location with the director or others in the board of Health Mid-Norway outside formal meetings?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1194	Yes, that's what I had in mind in my previous answer, and I'm happy to be able to clarify the reason why I'm not answering that question in a concrete way. Both the department and I have regular contact with all the regional health companies, both administratively and with the director. The director of the health region often needs to discuss difficult matters with me. It may be to explore or discuss the political consequences of different issues, and it is in line with good ownership management. The confidentiality of this contact is important for the ability to exercise sound leadership towards the Chairpersons. However, this contact does not, of course, relieve the board of directors of responsibility for assessing, handling and deciding matters on an independent basis. This is most recently mentioned in the ownership message, which includes:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The framework for ownership management does not prevent the State, like other shareholders, from addressing matters that companies should consider in relation to their activities and developments. The views expressed by the State in such meetings are to be seen as input to the company's administration and administration.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1204	There's a board meeting in Health More and Romesdal right now, and it looks like the board's going to make a decision on emptying today, and that the board of Health Mid-Norway will do the same tomorrow. The Health Minister has warned that he is taking the decision to say the first Friday. I would like to stress that I don't think anyone is interested that this process will go far in time, but in view of all the turmoil that has arisen at the end of the process, and the doubt about the Minister of Health's procedure in the matter, does the Minister of Health not think that it would be reasonable to wait until all the cards around the process are put on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1209	It is the boards of the two undertakings that have to decide whether they feel that they have a sound basis for decision. I do not feel that anyone has questioned the professional decision-making basis in this case. It is also externally quality-secured and the boards have to decide for themselves. If they deal with the matter, it is my plan to deal with the matter at the business meeting on Friday. If some of the boards postpone the matter, there will of course have consequences for the business meeting's handling of this. There is nothing in the case investigation, managers or board members’ opinions that suggests that they do not make an independent assessment based on this professional basis, which is also required by law. My requirements and instructions to regional health companies take place in formal meetings and documents, and that will also be done in this case. I'm not going to let an outcome on the board of Health Mid-Norway be an outcome and say I don't care about this. I'm going to have a business meeting, I'm going to say what I mean, in the corporate meeting, and it's also going to be the decision in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1216	Then there were no more questions raised for ordinary Question Time, and the case no. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-17.ana.ud933e1229	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before a meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
