ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e110	Honourable co-representatives! Former Billing Representative from Telemark, Gunn Olsen, is dead, 61 years old. With Gunn's death, the Workers' Party has lost a central and capable politician. Gunn Olsen was a marked and strong woman politician and a warm man. Gunn Olsen was the biggest representative for four periods, until 1 October last year. During this time she was on the Committee on Transport, the Social Committee, the Health and Welfare Committee and the Family and Culture Committee. As a member of both the Group Board and the Labour Committee, she was a member of the Workers' Group. Gunn Olsen was a committed and unreasoning politician. She was direct and clear and had an inviolable sense of justice. The exposure of society to the weakest, child-restraint, drug addicts and cancer patients was high. Open and ill, she stood up on TV as a health policy when she had the diagnosis of cancer for the first time. Gunn Olsen was very engaged in his home country. For many years she fought for mammography research of women in Telemark and participated in collecting money for a mammography device at the hospital in Porsgrund. She was also one of the champions of the new highway to Kragerø and should have much of the credit for the road finally coming into place. In addition to its local and regional political involvement, Gunn Olsen was very conscious of the national and national political situation. As a member of the Danish delegation to the Nordic Council and the European Parliament, she also showed interest in international policy. Gunn Olsen was a social and outgoing person, among others. as an active member of the Women's Association of the Workers' Party, also known as the Handbag Club. She was also good at taking care of new female wholesalers. Gunn Olsen was a human being in which many became happy. We saw how she got rid of the disease for years. The fact that she had the strength to be with the Working Party's big group on 12 June 2013 at the Hotel Continental was therefore very, very pleasant. There she was thanked for her work in Stortinget. It is with great gratitude and deep sleep we remember Gunn Olsen for her work in the Storting. We bring peace to Gunn Olsen's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e133	The representatives Åse Michaelsen, Sylvi Graham and Torstein Tvedt Solberg, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Four permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party's Group on Welfare Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen from 25 February to 27 February from the Workers' Party's Group on Health Permit of the Representative Else-May Botten from 25 February onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party's Working Party on Health Permit of the Representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen from 25 February onwards and until further notice from the Progress Party's Group on Permit of the Representative Inbjørg Gössen from 26 to 27 February to attend the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly on Malta On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For East-Agder County: Lene LangemyrFor More and Romesdal County: Tove-Lise TorveFor Nordland County: Tone-Helen Toften and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e197	Tone-Helen Toften and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e208	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 6 to be dealt with before case No. 4th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will state that today's meeting is likely to continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e224	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative, Mr Lauvås, of the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e235	In its proposal, the Ministry of Justice and Defence promotes legislative amendments to the Law of 15 May 2008 No. 35 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here. The proposal refers to the fact that the Board of Appeal receives and deals with a large number of requests for the conversion of final decisions in foreign matters, the Foreign Office. The fewest requests lead to a reversal of the decision and, in many cases, it is quite clear that the request cannot be made. Access to conversion is necessary to fulfil Norway’s obligations under international law and must be maintained. However, dealing with such requests presupposes far too much resources, as is currently the case. It appears from the proposal that it is therefore desirable both to streamline the treatment and to reduce the number of requests submitted. The Committee points out that the scope of conversion requests is large. It is also evident in many cases that the request cannot be made. This binds large resources in the administration. The Committee agrees with the government’s proposal that, as a general rule, no individualised justification should be given in the UN response if it is evident that the request for conversion will not be presented. The Committee stresses that this does not involve the imposition of stricter conditions for residence on the basis of a request for conversion and agrees with the government’s assessment that it is not appropriate to introduce such a rule. The Committee further points out that foreigners seeking residence and protection in the State are obliged to inform the police of the change of residence until they leave the State. The majority of the Committee agrees with the assessment that the possibility of rejecting requests for conversion by non-residents is expressly enshrined in the Regulation. The majority further supports the assessment that UNE is granted access to reject conversion requests and that the rule does not imply rejection of the requests. The Committee also stresses that the international obligations of Norway arising from the EMC, Article 3, and the United Nations Convention on Refugees, Article 33, provide absolute protection against being sent to areas where persecution, inhumane or degrading treatment may occur. This protection must have implications for the way in which the foreign authorities conduct their practices. This will apply both in cases where the foreigner has not known the place of residence and in cases where any prescribed form is not met. I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e248	The rapporteur has explained the matter well, and from the right we stand behind the proposal and the proposal. A chain is not stronger than the weakest link. Our foreign administration is a long chain of agencies, different treatments, assessments and measures. When weaknesses are detected in this chain – in this case a build-up and a significant amount of conversion requests that in reality do not have a chance to produce – we need to make improvements and simplifications. New rules with simplified handling of cases that are obviously not leading to them provide a faster clarification and less uncertainty for those who are being rejected, so that – although not satisfied with the decision – they can also be more quickly adapted to the future that lies ahead. It is also a strength for those who need to stay, settle and integrate, or who are waiting to have their case finally settled, because this action will contribute to a significant release of capacity and resources in our foreign administration, in this case in the Foreign Affairs Study. Only in 2012, there were about 6,000 conversion requests, of which 10 were. received support. We need to ensure effective and good practice, and also to ensure that those who are required to have an in-depth assessment of the request for conversion are able to do so. An effective and good process, which also ensures good legal certainty, will be a strength for the governance of foreigners and will ensure that we can also achieve effective and good policies in this area. We are thus strengthening this measure as an important step in the continuous chain of our foreign administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e257	I'm glad there's a broad consensus on the principal lines of this proposition. For a number of years the party has argued that the proceedings in the foreign field need to be simplified. This proposition is therefore in many ways a victory for the Progress Party, and I would challenge the opposition to look at other aspects of immigration policy with as constructive eyes as in this case. There has been a major problem that many conversion requests have been made disproportionately. The Board of Appeal of the Department of Foreign Affairs receives and processes a large number of requests for the conversion of final decisions each year. It was promoted – as the representative from the Right was involved – by around 6,000 requests for conversion in 2012. This represents almost half of all matters dealt with in the field of asylum. The very few complaints lead to conversion, and in many cases it is quite clear that the request cannot be made. It is therefore desirable to both streamline treatment and reduce the number of requests submitted. We know that the capacity in the asylum field is blown up, 5 500 people are in the queue and the same number are waiting for transportation. The Progress Party has always been very clear that we need to have a rapid and effective procedure in a way that ensures legal certainty for individuals. A long wait is unworthy for the individual asylum seeker who is waiting for his or her life, it is expensive for society and it is bad for integration. The legislative proposal simplifies the processing of requests for conversion which are clearly not capable of producing. This is very positive for the asylum process, and I look forward to further proposals for improvements to the government's asylum procedure. If we are to avoid the situations we have seen in recent years, where children and others spend years in limbo awaiting asylum treatment, it is important that UDI and UNE provide rapid clarification. In this context, the total capacity of the foreign management is highly relevant. I am therefore pleased with this proposal, where there can be more standardised responses to requests for conversion. As a result, the foreign administration will be freed from the capacity to handle asylum applications more quickly at first instance. If the applicant has a genuine need for protection, this shall be clarified promptly. Similarly, an asylum seeker who does not have a need for protection shall leave the country without delay. The legislative proposal also contains a number of positive restrictions. In the past, it has been possible to deal with a request for conversion even if the applicant did not provide a place of residence or had an unknown place of residence. The new general rule is that this type of application is now to be rejected. There is no good and accurate overview, but estimates are that there are as many as 20 000 illegal immigrants only in the Oslo area. It is therefore of great social importance that we have control of the residence address of people who have not yet been accommodated. There will be some exceptions for children in consultation with the Cooperation Agreement, and there is something to be seen in the negotiations between the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties. It is nevertheless positive that we now have such an important and general tightening in place. The asylum system is over-mature for reform, and making conversion requests that obviously cannot be made, simplified treatment, is a right step on the way. We in the Progress Party are pleased that we have managed to put the agenda on this sort of issue, and I can assure everyone that the Progress Party will work hard every single day for a completely necessary clearing up of Norwegian asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e270	It is important to achieve a more effective process to clarify the future of people – or not the future – here in the country. It is in line with the Christian People's Party's human and social views, where the important principle of justice, predictability and humane treatment is to be respected. Neither individuals nor communities serve unclear waiting time on the issue of residence permits. We have too many examples of individuals and families remaining in uncertainty and excitement in reception for years. It is therefore for the benefit of all parties that processes relating to conversion requests are quality assured and concluded more effectively. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals of the ministry in this matter. The foreign student is now given the opportunity to grant a standardised refusal of conversion requests in cases where it is quite clear that the request cannot be made. It provides a less resource-intensive and more efficient treatment of issues where no new information is available or where the decision is obviously not to be reversed for other reasons. However, when we now allow for standardised refusals, it is important that we keep our current practice of giving individual reasons when there are particular reasons for doing so. I particularly want to raise issues where children are involved. The assessment of the best interests of the child must be justified and clearly identified. This will, in most cases, give increased understanding of the decision and greater certainty that the case has been properly dealt with. In cases where it is not clear that the decision is to be reversed or where the situation is special in other ways, such a justification is made apparent why the request for conversion is rejected. So to the second suggestion in this case, the question of a known or unknown place of residence. The Christian People's Party also supports the amendment of UNE's right to reject conversion requests if the person's residence is unknown. It is always best for a well-organised society that governments know where both foreigners and residents live. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party, together with the Left and the SV, will emphasise UNE's responsibility for giving everyone a thorough and fair trial. I want to justify it. The authorities are obliged to review and reverse decisions which are invalid. Most of the time, there will be reason to deal with a change request because complaints believe he or she has the right to stay in the country. UNE then has an obligation to deal with matters where there may have been errors in the proceedings, or if new information has been received about the person’s situation or new circumstances that might await his return to his country of origin. In such cases, the foreign authorities must fulfil their obligation and process the request, even if the place of residence is unknown. There may be reasons for keeping the place of residence hidden which may be a matter of crucial importance. Otherwise, we believe that all child-related requests for conversion should be taken into account. That's how we, along with Left and SV, believe that we best safeguard the child's best interests. The term ‘best child’ must be filled in content and displayed in action. The place of residence of parents may be of minor importance from the point of view of the child. I started by saying that an effective and rapid process is important, but for the Christian People's Party, it is at least equally important that everyone applying for a stay in Norway receives a fair and proper treatment of their applications. I therefore refer to, and I am pleased to see, the cooperation agreement with the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, which contains the wording: «The legal certainty shall be ensured and the system evaluated».
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e294	The centre party will pursue an immigration policy that puts human dignity in the focus, and where the individual has clear rights and obligations, as it is called in our programme. This case is about the difficult decisions on the one hand to ensure fair treatment for asylum seekers and other immigrants and the right to appeal against decisions, while on the other hand avoiding the fact that the cases are left unresolved this year after year because of repeated complaints and heavy complaints procedures. I believe that the Stortinget is on safe ground when we join the government's proposal that, as a general rule, no individualised justification should be given in the UN response to cases where it is obvious that the request for a conversion decision will not be presented. We are not introducing this stricter condition for stay on the basis of conversion decisions, but we are ensuring an opportunity to speed up proceedings and to spend less resources on matters that are obviously not going to happen. Not least, they benefit from more relevant complaints, because the processing time for their cases is now expected to be shorter. Some hearing bodies are skeptical of a conversion where new processing of conversion decisions is to assume that there is a likelihood of conversion overweight. I can understand the principal considerations of these hearings. Nevertheless, I have to remind you that everyone seems to agree that the queue of complaints, without new information in the case, is a major problem that creates plugs in the treatment system and that affects requests for conversion where new information is available that can change the decisions. It is not the case that the implementation of the government’s proposal for new guidelines for the handling of conversion decisions poses a major risk that no one will be consulted through review procedures. The proposal refers to UNE’s processing in 2012 in excess of 4000 conversion requests. 10 pst. of these received support. It is assumed that the new guidelines will apply around 25 pst. of the cases, i.e. a relatively limited part. We politicians have long agreed that the queues are too long and that the processing time has to go down. We have increased the resources of UNE, and now we are invited to do something about the premises for complaint handling. In sum, this should lead to a proper handling of matters, while at the same time maintaining the legal certainty of the individual, and to a more effective treatment. We must pursue a refugee and asylum policy that takes care of our international obligations. We also need to ensure that individuals are aware of the certainty that their case is heard and that their legal certainty is safeguarded. I believe we are doing that by following up the proposals of the red-green government promoted in Prop. 180 L for 2012–2013, which is now being finalised here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e309	I would like to begin by saying that Norway has international obligations that we must follow, in Article 3 of the European Commission on Human Rights and in Article 33 of the United Nations Convention on Refugees. They will apply regardless of how we set up the legislation now. The question is whether what we are doing now improves legal certainty for the refugees or not. This must be the starting point for meeting our international obligations – to ensure that refugees actually receive a fair and good treatment that protects them. That's SV's starting point in this case. When there are as many as several hundred who get their case converted after a change request, it tells us that there are very many who are in a situation where there is real reason to revert to the case that has been dealt with in several instances before. That's why we're going to go against two of the points in the proposition. The first point, that there is a simplified treatment in cases where there are no new themes within the picture, is perceived to be in line with current practice. After all, a desire for conversion is such that there will be new elements in the matter so that it can be addressed at all. However, when it comes to making formal demands on a case to be dealt with, we believe that it is an important principle that those who have a case to be brought forward should be able to promote it without the need to have the help of professionals – that is, you should be able to attend to and promote your case. There are many who struggle both with the form requirements there and with language and understanding of the legislation. It is important that in a matter that can be real, one is not stopped by the fact that the form requirement is there. It must be the substance of the matter that decides whether to stay or not and whether to fill in the form correctly. I'm worried that it's getting too much weight now. The second point is about a known place of residence. There I would like to refer to some of the objections raised by the hearing bodies, which were in the minority's position in the Appeals Committee, NOU 2010:12. There is evidence that there are sometimes very good reasons why people don't give their address. This could be done, for example, by: be women and children in crisis centres, refugees and asylum-seekers who are exposed to serious violence and organised trafficking in human beings, it may be because they have witnessed against persons, and there may be threats to international crime. I looked at the news today that you are concerned that there will be spies coming in and seeking asylum to spy on their countrymen and report back. There may be very good reasons for people not to enter their address. I also refer to the hearing body Juss-Buss, which was in Stortingen and referred to specific matters that they had raised, where the person had an unknown residence, and where it turned out that he had a reason to stay, and got it. The reason why we're going against these points is that we see that the nature of the refugee institution makes it possible to impose form requirements and to impose requirements on the place of residence could pose a risk that part of those who actually have new points in their application that could provide a basis for stay, because of the new requirements that are being set up now, may be rejected. It's purely for that reason. We also see that there are many requests for conversion. So we're going to agree to the first point, which says that if you don't have any new points to add, you can simplify them. It's obvious. However, these other requirements that are now being set up, we believe that the situation of some of the most vulnerable asylum seekers is getting worse, and that legal certainty is therefore not adequately ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e326	Let me thank you for a good and reflective debate. There have been many good speeches from the pulpit today. And then I would like to thank the Committee for supporting the proposal that, as a general rule, the foreign student should not provide an individualised justification in response to requests for conversion which obviously cannot be presented. It is important to implement instruments that can reduce the resources used to deal with requests for conversion. Hopefully, the legislative proposal can also have a certain signal effect, which means that fewer requests for conversion will be made in the long term. In 2013, the number of conversion requests was quite high. It was delivered to 5,700 pieces. 4 150 of them concerned asylum matters. It's 43 pst. the asylum cases received by the UNE. It says a little about the resource use that conversion requests lead to in UNE. The proposal also proposes the basis for the regulatory provisions to reject conversion requests which do not meet specified form requirements. I have noticed, as the previous speaker also pointed out, that the members of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV are concerned that there is no need to be so strict formal requirements that a person must have professional assistance in order to promote a change request. As explained in the proposition, UNE is already operating with different form requirements. The legislative proposal must therefore be understood in such a way as to provide a clear basis for that type of regulation. I believe that this is correct and orderly, and it also ensures the possibility of discussing individual formal requirements through public consultation on the regulatory rules. It should in a very good way also take care of the interests of the SV in this respect. I also believe it is important that, as a starting point, it should be possible to demand that persons who wish to reconsider their case should make themselves known to the authorities where they are located. I see very few concerns about it, when in addition it is foreseen in the proposition that one should continue the kind of exceptions that already follow from UNE's guidelines. The guidelines currently provide for exemptions for cases where references are made to the situation of children, cases where UNE is obliged to reconsider previous decisions because new information indicates that the foreigner is nevertheless entitled to protection, and cases where UNE discovers a procedural error relevant to previous decisions. These premises actually reflect the fear expressed by the representative of the SV from the pulpit. I would also like to inform you that the Swedish authorities have notified a proposal for a representative to set up a special foreign court. It is also mentioned in the Government Declaration, and we are now working on this and whether it makes sense to turn UNE into an administrative court in foreign affairs. We will then come back to that independently of any representative proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e342	In the case of the reinforced form requirement to be attached to the regulation, it is clear that it is a form of tightening. The question is only how such a form requirement should be limited to manifestly groundless requests for conversion. It is actually possible to fill the form requirements, but have a manifestly groundless desire for transformation. I would think that many of those who are resource-intensive will be able to seek help with this, so the form requirement is maintained, but you can bring in as many requests for conversion, while it can prevent some of those who don't have so much professional help in completing the applications. So it's hard to see how this form requirement in itself should be able to limit the number. And that was the point, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e348	Much of the intention is to make the procedure simpler and more efficient. It is, as I mentioned in my article, already today's form requirements for the desire for transformation. What is happening now is that a regulatory framework has been proposed to establish these form requirements. It will help us to have a public debate through the consultation round on what form requirements are relevant. And then we have to come back to what form requirements apply after that consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e353	I do not quite understand that it was an answer to what I asked for. Is it not true that if you have a baseless application, you can meet these formal requirements, and yet you can make a request for conversion? It is very difficult to understand how this requirement should lead to what I understand is the desire of the Progress Party, to limit the number of immigrants, or the number of applications. It is fully possible to make groundless applications that meet a formal requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e358	I think there's some conceptual confusion here. So we're not talking about the filing of asylum applications. We are talking about the desire to convert applications that have already been rejected. In any case, making formal demands helps you to have a simpler follow-up procedure. There are already form requirements today, which I have been faced with, but this will not, of course, help prevent anyone who has initially received a refusal from submitting a request for conversion. Of course, this will help to simplify the procedure for manifestly unfounded requests for conversion. I don't think there's such a big disagreement at that particular point, unless I've perceived the question in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e363	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e379	This is a nice case to be allowed to present to Stortinget. The representatives of Martin Kolberg, Lise Christoffersen and Torgeir Micaelsen shall be commended for bringing up a proposal for a representative on a problem related to local events. The proposal was supported by a unanimous committee. In addition, we have extended the proposal and given it an even greater impact. What it's about is the flag of the municipal public buildings of 1933. It is very categorical in the way that one with a wide pen says that in the municipalities' public buildings, properties, etc. only the official Norwegian flag, the Sami flag or the King-approved city, lord’s or county flag shall be used. The law even says that those who break this law should be punishable by fines or imprisonment for up to three months. As the representatives argue in their proposal, in the context of local major sporting events – cultural events – it can be mobilising and positive, creating an atmosphere in the local environment and making the events more attractive and attractive if you could mark them by, for example, having them. flags representing the clubs that had to participate in an important sporting event. What the representatives propose is that flags may be hung on stand-alone municipal flag bars in squares, bridges, squares and the like. Representatives also show that there has been a wide-ranging practice – as they have seen – around the municipalities to do this, without being punished. That is, the law hasn't been followed up in any way, so it's high time to do it again. This shall be the responsibility of the Committee and the Council of State shall also, in a letter of recommendation to the Committee, join it. In addition, both the Council of State and the Committee have proposed extending the proposal, so that it is not only in squares, bridges and spaces that stand-alone municipal flag bars can be flagged, for example. the sporting associations which have an important event but which should also be able to do so on municipal buildings used for these events, such as: a sports facility, a sports building, a swimming pool. So we've expanded the bill that the representatives have raised, with the moment that exceptions can also be made, so that it can be flagged with flags that I've mentioned, on municipal buildings in connection with sporting, cultural and similar events of general interest in the municipalities. It is a pleasure to be able to present the fact that a unanimous committee supports a proposal for a representative, and that we have also gone a step further – which we are absolutely sure is in line with the intentions of the rapporteurs – in this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e394	It's a happy day and a happy thing for sports enthusiasts, not least football enthusiasts – flagging with Norwegian flag and club flags in connection with events in a great and visible setting around an event. A club flag is a symbol that represents values that a layer and its trailers can be reassembled. Club flagging from sports teams and associations is a symbol of identity, cohesion and team spirit. Sports events and football tournaments bring commitment and joy. We enjoy our sportsmen, whether in football, handball or in winter sports – who are now in the Olympics. There are achievements that arouse admiration, and many practitioners are examples for us and the young. Flagging clubs on municipal flag bars at sporting events has so far not been within the scope of the law. Today's law, with its regulation, only allows flagging with Norwegian flag, Sámi flag, city gentleman's flag or county flag on municipal flag bars. The representatives of Kolberg, Christoffersen and Micaelsen have promoted a private bill that seeks to open up a more modest practice of flagging clubs on stand-alone municipal flag bars. This applies to flag bars which are not on or directly related to municipal buildings. The enquiry came to the Minister of Justice in October 2013. He reacted quickly and opened up in a letter to a new practice. I must praise the Minister for Action and for the ability to reinvent. Changing a flag is not easy, it has been tried before. The representative Verp tried. In May he asked questions about the practice of the flag law of former Justice Minister Faremo and whether there was a possibility of decoration at sporting events. The former Minister of Justice would not then grant a derogation and said in his reply that the municipalities could not allow flagging in violation of the ban in connection with sporting events and on other occasions. I am also credited with the fact that the representatives of Christoffersen, Kolberg and Micaelsen did not give up. Minister of Justice Anundsen had, in his letter, a different approach from that of Faremo and replied: «In or from the public buildings and municipal institutions of the municipalities, only flags as referred to in the Act of 10 December 1898 may be used. [[...]] It was a little long, but the point is now: ‘The prohibition in the first sentence shall not apply where buildings and associated land as referred to in the second sentence are used for sporting, cultural or similar events of general interest.’;» The matter has also been raised within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it is gratifying that a unanimous committee supports the views and allows club flags to be used on stand-alone local flag bars, peat etc. In any case, this will include the city bridge in the Drammen, where there has been a great desire for flagging at the summit events of Stroemsgüss. There should be clear rules about flagging public buildings. The size spent many years flying our national flag. The size struggled to remove the Union mark imposed by Swedish King Oscar II. On December 15, 1898, the Norwegian flag law was published in the Norwegian Levtidend, and the first pure flag could be lifted above the Stortinget. I am sure that the opening now made in the law will be handled with wisdom and respect for the municipalities. This will be a pleasure for sports teams and clubs in the country and mark a great frame around events.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e440	First, I would like to thank the case manager for a nice review and a nice presentation of the case. This is one of the first representatives to come forward during this large-scale period, which has led to committee proceedings and is being presented as a matter of urgency today. So it's a small milestone for the committee to raise a case from a representative proposal to a decision today. I also notice that the case-speaker told me that one has not practiced the law so strictly, and as a former narrator, I am pleased that one has not prosecuted those who have flagged with flags other than those permitted by the law of 1933. That is why I am also pleased, on behalf of the local government sector, that we are today getting a more up-to-date law that is consistent with the practice we have. I would like to thank the Committee for its work on working out a good case and thank the Minister of Justice for making a good proposal even better through his approach and legislative proposals, which serve the purpose better, so that the Committee of Consultants can present a good proposal today. It is important to stress, as the previous speaker said, that we should have respect for the flag law, and there should still be a strict practice for which a flag is on public flag bars. There is no freeway The Storting opens today, but one opens up so that on major occasions before culture and sport can be allowed to use public flag bars to underline a point and to show enthusiasm for what is happening in the city or in the municipality. I think very well when this was suggested. Then it was the representative Lise Christoffersen from Buskerud and the Workers' Party that probably had a glimpse last year because of the elite series and said this was about top football. I think it's a good thing that one has commitment, but I think I have to complain: as the pimp goes this year, it's probably more topical to flag the Fire Flag in Bergen and Hordaland than to mark the extra serial gold in Drammen. As Hordaland's representative, I am told that we would like to welcome the release of Firen as the first team to be able to flag and mark that one has done well on the football field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e453	Most of us probably haven't thought of it as a crime when the Red Cross rifle, the flag of the ski club, the 4H flag or the flag of the football club have waded from municipal flag bars. We have first and foremost been delighted with the message that we now have a visit and that there are good activities going on in our municipality. It is natural that the municipality marks support for such events and that it marks its host role when there are major sporting events or other cultural events in the village or city. Representative proposals are usually about the formulation of new policies. In this case, we gather to adopt a legal home that allows the municipalities to continue their current practice, but which thus turns out to have been contrary to the law. I would like to thank the proposers for promoting this proposal. I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice, who has contributed to making a good proposal even better with the clarifications that have come. Now we can gather to make a unanimous decision that may not mean so much in the broad context, but that will ensure that laws and well-established attitudes to what should be law are harmonised.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e462	As the author of the proposal, I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the committee for the unanimous position that exists in the matter, where the text has also been made even better, but where there is still to be respect for public flags. Thanks also to the Minister of Justice for his positive contributions. When we see that the matter has also been submitted to both the Minister of State and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it is only to bend in the dust. I have been told that the Minister of Justice himself has a love for Larvik Handball Club – in my municipality it would be DHK – but it is the Power Goods and the discussion about flagging in Drammen that has been the starting point for us to promote the case, but of course it is important in all Norwegian municipalities. It was not as much agreement when the flag law of 1933 was adopted, but then it was about something completely different. In 1929, the new working party majority in Oslo decided to lift the red flag on the municipality hall on 1 May. It was repeated in 1930 and 1931, and other workers-driven municipalities followed. It aroused strong reactions in bourgeois circles, and the Stortinget put an effective end to this ghastly practice of the flag law in 1933. That was the background. But a lot of water has been clean in the sea since that time, and the lead to today's proposal is a completely different one, namely a long, desertless debate on the Gusset flag on the city bridge in Drammen during the home struggles on Marienlyst. As the club in our hearts, the Power Good is an important reconstructor of the Drama. We would like to pay tribute, but the flag law of 1933 has put an end to it – as long as you want to be law-abiding. At the same time, we know that this elsewhere has not been taken very carefully. Maybe the law is simply little known? A question I received when we delivered the representative proposal was whether it is illegal when Oslo lifts the rainbow flag during Skeive days. If it happens on municipal poles, it actually is. But I happily admit that, as former rapporteur in Drammen, I actually named the sports club Hellas’ club flag in the square when they celebrated 75 years, without knowing that I was doing anything illegal. The drama is the city with Norway's best football balls. The Cup last year went literally to the Føka Stadium in Asker all in the second round, because Asker beat us 2-1. It's not going to happen again. But the serial gold we took, as we did in 1970, and the Norwegian champions we've been five times. Our club was founded in 1907 and has a proud story in several sports sectors, but is perhaps best known for its bandy and football championships. We're not the oldest club, but we're older than more of those we meet in the elite series. Head of the Committee Helge André Njåstad struck a blow for Brann, and I have also seen that he has just said to BA that they can lift the Fire Flag at the City Hall when Brann takes serial gold. The rapporteur, Trude Drevland, was quick to remember that she was the one who decided, and that it was not certain that there would be a flag at the town hall in Bergen. But if I know Trude Driven right, it will probably be flagged when or if Firen takes the gold – and it can be a little longer, then. In the Drammen we were a little tired as we couldn't fly on 10 November last year when we hit Haugesund and took the serial gold, but we have an ambition to reach the series opening on 30 March. It would be fine, because the change is proposed to enter into force immediately, when only the second decision in the Storting has been made in a few weeks' time. Then the matter is in the box, and the municipality can decide for itself, so that the rapporteur in Drammen can simply order his new, beautiful flag.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e479	The President has to note that even though there are now more liberal rules to flag, it does not mean that there are more liberal rules to go on the Stockholm pulpit with clothing etc. as advertiser for either a football club or a political party, or – as we saw a few weeks ago – T-shirts that advertise for individual movements. It's not just the most incorrect, it's really not allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e482	I'm dressed relatively conservatively today, even though I'm wearing a red tie. Actually, we should lift the flag today with this consensus in this Chamber, which really belongs to the rareness, in connection with the proposals for representatives. Maybe it's a sign of a new time with new government, which also embraces good suggestions even if they come from the opposition. This is a good starting point for democracy. I think this is a good initiative, and today's debate reflects an exhilarating enthusiasm, which really underlines the reason why this actually means more than what many imagine. It's about locality, it's about being part of your own municipality, and sports and sporting events help connect the local population. So, even if you can lift the flag in a slightly different way today, that is. In two weeks’ time, when the decision enters into force, it is not possible to put under a chair, which the committee chairman was also concerned with, that flagging public buildings has a serious impact. There is no release adopted today in Stortinget; there is a slightly more modern practice related to what you can use the municipal flag rods for. It's a change that really should have been made a very long time ago, and it's to some extent been politically focused on this also earlier, and I'm glad that we've now reached the point where a unanimous increase is joining these changes. It affects us all in different ways. I think personally there has been a lot of focus on football clubs from the pulpit today, so for myself I am now really most pleased that Larvik Municipality can finally legally flag Larvik Handball Club – but I have not taken the club flag with me on the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e495	The last one appreciates the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e498	The flag is our leading national symbol. It's part of our legacy, part of our identity, and it creates enthusiasm when we watch it on television and public places. That's the way it should be. Therefore, and especially in a year when we celebrate the Constitution, you become very aware when someone wants to change the flag law. In addition, you know that when you create a law, it's because you want to achieve a purpose, a direction. Then when we want to change the law because we want other purposes, it's natural that there's going to be some counter-conceptions. I thought the proposal was very good when it came, and I still think so. I also think it was okay that the Grand President had some comments about liberal practices, but I allow myself to come up with some counter-representations. Flagging on municipal poles – although not on municipal buildings – will take place in public spaces, and in public spaces we are exposed to many perceptions and many influences. There may be advertising, design, or other aesthetic ways of promoting a message. I imagine that in the worst case, there may be hanging flags at times when it may be annoying, for example. in relation to the national day and other days. Therefore, I assume that changing the flag law leads to the municipalities being able to regulate this in a sensible way even through their regulations. I trust that the municipalities will carry out the task they are now assigned to manage this wisely, so that the public space is not subject to the unpleasant or premature influence of groups, or for intentions that not everyone can stand behind. Flagging on public poles should still be something that the whole people can stand behind. I am pleased that the law has had a thorough preparatory work, and I am happy and grateful that the proposal was raised. The Christian People's Party supports this proposal, but I'm adding that I assume that the municipalities practice this in a strict and sensible way, to the joy of the local cultural work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e517	It is gratifying that also a matter of which there is necessarily a broad consensus creates a great deal of commitment, and it is in many ways enthusiasm that causes this matter to be raised. You know, as a troupe, you're really spoiled about having this possibility. For a current football club, it took 32 years, and as I said, it doesn't work in trombone teams when we play football. But I think this is a topical issue, because it shows a modernisation of the law, which is really the case, which was urgent. I think it's a necessity, and that also shows the dynamics. I would also like to congratulate the Council of State, which sees that there is a dynamic movement at all times. That is also what this matter is all about in many ways: modernising a obsolete law. So I thank the Council of State, and I thank you for your commitment to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e524	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e538	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e545	This case concerns the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the National Data Protection Authority for 2012, and the notification was promoted by the Government of Stoltenberg II on 23 August last year. The Communication points out that the scope of privacy-related issues is increasing as technological developments develop. The activities of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer are becoming more and more relevant to society. Technological developments are moving very rapidly, and in addition to legislation and regulation, commercial actors and public authorities also need to cooperate increasingly in order to find good solutions that integrate privacy into people's everyday lives. The Communication refers to the fact that the Government of the General Data Protection Notice has expressed a particular view that the principle of embedded privacy should apply to all sectors. It is important to make a conscious effort to ensure that privacy is implemented early in the development of legislation and new systems. The annual reports of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer provide a very good overview of the activities in 2012 and the key issues that characterise the work, including beyond the reporting period. Data protection has been offensive to the ecosystem and has a close follow-up and good dialogue with the main actors in an industry where developments are now very rapid, and it is therefore important to influence developments in a privacy-friendly direction. The Committee has noted that work on digitisation and modernisation in the health and care sector raises several privacy-related issues, including: as regards the use of welfare technologies, and it is therefore natural that the Data Protection Authority should also closely follow this sector in order to ensure that privacy is properly protected. On the part of the Committee, we support the idea of ‘integrated privacy’, i.e.: ICT systems and solutions that have already taken into account and implemented data protection functionality in the development and design phase. When such considerations are taken into account at an early stage, solutions become both better and less expensive than if one had to adapt a system that was not really designed to safeguard privacy. Data protection has an important role to play in disseminating knowledge and information on good development processes in order to ensure precisely this embedded privacy. We have noticed that the Data Protection Authority wants to be involved in the digitisation work in the public sector, for example. to ensure that the making available and further use of public data takes place in such a way as to safeguard privacy and that any conflicts are balanced against each other as early as possible. It is positive that the Data Protection Authority wants to play an active role in this work. The majority of the Committee agrees that strict monitoring of the use and re-use of data in the labour market should be carried out and calls on the government to contribute to strengthening the focus on privacy in this area. I would also like to point out that in terms of privacy in the workplace, there is work under the direction of the Employment and Pension Policy Council under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It is a unanimous committee that proposes that the annual reports of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer for 2012 be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e568	Data protection is one of our most important tools to protect privacy and an important vigilance and knowledge provider needed in the public debate. Now that both the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the National Data Protection Authority are being processed, we have an opportunity to discuss privacy. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, who has explained the position and the broad consensus of the Committee on the importance of privacy. Technology gives us enormous opportunities. It gives us opportunities in everyday life with things as simple as keeping in touch with old friends on Facebook, buying tickets on the mobile phone, but also opportunities in relation to digital services. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we use the best opportunities for the citizens; we want the best possible digital services, services that can be used anywhere and at any time. But it also poses challenges: an increasingly electronic everyday life also means that citizens need to know what rights they have, and in particular, the role of data protection as a knowledge intermediary is important. More and more information is being stored, and we're leaving electronic tracks everywhere. Big Data is collected from different sources, collated and can be used in new contexts. There are commercial interests that are often behind, and the trend has been that data is collected as much as technically possible. The Data Protection Authority writes that they are concerned with the data protection issues of the use of Big Data. That's good, and it'll probably be an increasingly topical issue in the future. For this reason, it is also becoming increasingly important, as the rapporteur was also concerned, with integrated privacy, and this principle should apply to all sectors. Some measures may include digital transparency solutions, electronic reporting of what is recorded, or the possibility of updating information itself. Privacy-friendly options such as built-in first choice should be used, e.g.: by requiring no more information than is strictly necessary. It is important that privacy comes early when new solutions are established. It will both strengthen privacy and provide cheaper solutions by not installing it later. The EU's work has also contributed to strengthening privacy. It's important. Technology knows no boundaries, and then we must also have a regulatory framework to ensure cross-border privacy. It is good that the Data Protection Authority prioritises international work. The issues raised by supervision in the Annual Report are important messages to the Stortinget as legislator. In 2012, the supervision focuses in particular on the protection of privacy in the workplace and how they have worked to improve the awareness of privacy in the workplace. The red-green government put down a party-based sample to look at these issues. I look forward to discussing the concrete proposals that come there. Data protection is a knowledge bank, and I think it is important that supervision participates in the public vocabulary and that it participates in its competence when there are consultations on concrete proposals. There the supervision has done a good and offensive job, and it is very positive that the supervision so clearly signals that they want to focus on and be part of the digitisation work in the public sector. There may also be issues where the Data Protection Authority does not reach its arguments, but in any case the Data Protection Authority contributes to a more conscious relationship with the public sector. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e591	The Director of the Data Protection Authority, Bjørn Erik Thon, has some thoughtful considerations about privacy in its introduction to the 2012 Annual Communication of the Data Protection Authority. He says that the greatest threats to privacy are the many small interventions, registrations and surveillance measures that can eventually end up losing the freedom we set so high: freedom to travel wherever we want, to spend money on what we want and to communicate with whom we want, without fear of anyone looking at us in the cards. In the annual report, there is also a description of the enormous digital developments we are experiencing. All 90 pst. Today’s digital data have only been generated over the past few years, and the volume of data increases by 40 pst. year-on-year. In one minute, 204 million e-mails are sent, and about three million searches are made on Google. We're all taking advantage of digital development. It opens up new opportunities for us. At the same time, we know that our digital footprints are seen, registered and used in many contexts. In daily life, we may not be unduly concerned about that, but I think we should be happy that through the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority, we have built up supervisory authorities and competences to help us ask the critical questions. As legislators, we have a great responsibility that most people experience as difficult to manage without being able to obtain support from professional environments that have solid, both valuable and knowledgeal ballasts. The Central Party, together with the Labour Party, the Left and the Socialist Left, has a note that we support the Data Protection Authority's signal that they will exercise a stricter control over the use and reuse of data in the labour market. The Communication, issued by the Red-Green Government, states that the Ministry agrees that there is a need to look at how data protection challenges in working life are addressed and that the focus of the Data Protection Authority on this is supported. I assume that our new government is also behind this. The increased possibilities for the use of electronic tracks for monitoring purposes must not lead to a deterioration in the privacy of the labour force. The majority of the majority, the Right and the Workers' Party, decided that the EU Data Storage Directive should be introduced into Norwegian law. The Directive requires telecommunications companies and Internet providers to store all data showing who you have called, to send text messages or e-mails to or where and when you have surfed the Internet. The data shall be stored for at least six months, allegedly in order to combat serious crime. We have seen that the former Depositary Representative of the Right and Multiannual Head of the Data Protection Authority, Georg Apenes, has reacted strongly to this. He said: ‘It turns out to be like storing a maximum of accumulators in the event that it turns out that there is a needle in one of them.’ As you know, the State budget for 2014 provides funds for the implementation of the Directive, but progress has been delayed. There is a broad debate on the privacy implications of the introduction of the Data Storage Directive in a number of EU Member States, and the European Court of Justice will review the legality of the implementation of the Directive as it now exists. The Central Party considers that there is a need for a new review of the premises for the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, based on both the recognition of the challenges to privacy and the increased costs and administrative challenges arising from the implementation of the Directive in Norwegian law. I see that the members of the Committee from the government parties say that this is not the time for a review of the Data Storage Directive, given that we have to wait for the outcome of the present case in the European Court of Justice. It is a very humble and overly defensive approach, not least from the Progress Party, which voted against the introduction of the directive together with us from the Centre Party. I believe that both the Progress Party and the parties that represented the majority when the Stortinget dealt with the matter in 2011 would be well worth recognising that the consequences of the decision are difficult to defend. There is no reason why we should let the EU draw the conclusion for us in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e620	Never before has a society had greater opportunities to follow our digital steps than now. It also creates some challenges. The left has programmed that we will work to remove the EU Data Storage Directive from Norwegian legislation if it is implemented. We also believe that we must work actively towards the EU in order to ensure that the new EU data protection regulation, which will also apply to Norway at the time of its entry into force, provides a higher level of protection of privacy than is currently available. It is also important to bear in mind that the role of the Data Protection Authority, which plays a supervisory role in data protection, is becoming increasingly important for our everyday lives, as regards the activities of both private and public actors that take place online and in electronic communications. The development of new solutions makes the pressure on privacy much stronger. Therefore, the Left believes that the starting point is that citizens' rights should be protected as well in the digital as in the analogue world. In such a perspective, and given the privacy aspects that modernising and digitising travels, we believe it is necessary to consider giving the Data Protection Authority greater authority as a management body. The work on digitisation and modernisation in a number of sectors of society also raises some privacy-related issues. This is particularly true in the health and care sectors. It is therefore also natural that the focus of the Data Protection Authority has been on the health and care sector in the reporting year and among others. involved in discussions about the possible use of welfare technologies. Therefore, it is also necessary to ensure that the use of care technologies is based on the principle of privacy-friendly technology, and that legislation, procedures and practices are established to ensure that individual concerns are taken into account. I would also like to stress the need to impose stricter safety requirements on the health information of individuals, including requirements for the encryption of identities in health records, and to ensure that only those who are actually involved in the treatment of a patient have access to the records.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e637	In this case, I remember my strict assignment that reading someone else's mail was one of the worst things you could think of. We were very careful that we treated the privacy as strictly as we could. I think privacy is one of the areas of life that has had the greatest development in recent decades. It's been challenged. It's an intangible value that we're going to take care of, and that we're still, through the technical possibilities, seeing new, worrying aspects. From ancient Roman law, we know that the rights of the individual are important, and that the rights of the citizen are based on it: our personal data should remain private. But today, information is being gathered everywhere, everywhere, in more and more areas of life. This applies to access portals. It's about storage, reuse and sale, and it's about deleting information about us that in itself may be insignificant, but that in some cases soon tells our whole lives. Therefore, it is important that the Data Protection Authority performs the job they do, with great thoroughness. The annual report available gives reason to trust that this work is working well. When I ask for the floor, it is because we are now faced with a reform of local government and democracy. In this context, I think it can also be an ICT reform, and it is very important that the Data Protection Agency now assists in the work ahead of us, so that democracy reform also becomes an ICT reform. The Municipal Committee has been on its way to Finland and Denmark and has seen ICT integration and is part of the renewal work in the municipalities. It is therefore very important that the work is of high quality and that we manage to foresee what can be of opportunities and hazards. While data supervision is carrying out good control, it will be important, as I said, that they are now able to identify the problems of the challenges that exist, so that in the political work of the forthcoming reform of local authorities and democracy we have a good basis for making wise decisions. Therefore, I assume that their understanding of this area will be given to the political environment in advance and in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e648	I think there are few of us who twenty years ago could imagine how ICT and computer technology today intervene in both everyday life and work – in total. In many ways, this makes things simpler and more effective, but on the other hand, it also opens up what the Data Protection Authority warns against in its annual report, namely increased monitoring and commercialisation of our private information, which can be captured and stored, and that this presents us as a society facing major challenges in the future. I believe that it is not very difficult to see that the Data Protection Authority – and perhaps also the Data Protection Authority – needs to be strengthened in the future to meet this, because this pressure is getting bigger and bigger. In the setting, I feel that we agree on most things, but I am similar to both the representative of the Workers' Party and the representative of the Centre party very much in favour of why the government parties are not in favour of the remark on employment, where it says that the Data Protection Authority will use the possibility of an infringement fee in cases where they believe that the use of data is contrary to the law. It's simply about actually showing that what you're doing is having some consequences. I actually thought the government parties were in that. I'm very surprised that they're not, and I'm signalling this now. The second is the debate on the Data Storage Directive. I notice that the Progress Party – apparently – will not take the floor on this matter, and I understand that very well, because the Data Storage Directive is perhaps the most challenging issue we have in terms of monitoring and privacy – the protection of our personal data. When this matter was up in Stortinget, the current Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen made an absolutely glittering contribution. It is not every day that I quote the Progress Party, but today I intend to do so. He said, ‘I believe that the Data Storage Directive is really about what we perceive as freedom. We boast of being a nation where the individual is free and legal certainty well cared for. In my opinion, freedom from surveillance is an essential part of the concept of freedom." He also said that the starting point for the Data Storage Directive violates that principle. That is why we, together with the Centre Party and the Left, have thought that we need to go through this matter again now, and that is because it raises these difficult questions. I see that the government parties have not introduced the directive, that there are many challenges to it, and so we should take a break and think about it. It is not necessary to wait for the Court of Justice of the European Union, but we can hope that it will also support this view, because there are no limits to the areas in which we can imagine that we should carry out different types of data storage and monitoring in the future – ‘for the sake of good’. That's the way it is. You can do it in areas by area. It won't get any better for that reason. I would like to quote again the current Minister of Justice, who in Stortinget on 4 April 2011 said: ‘Of course, only the most naive believe that this will help to improve the resolution of serious crime. Criminals plan their illegal activity. They know their traffic is stored. They're the closest to finding new ways to communicate. They don't have to take this into account in any special way. Those who remain, those who suffer from this, will be ordinary people who really don't have anything to hide – other than ordinary everyday sins, and it may be bad enough if that information falls into the wrong hands. The experience suggests that they are in the wrong hands." So it is the current Minister of Justice who says this about the Data Storage Directive. The main argument is that we are going to use it to combat crime, and so the current Minister of Justice rejects this as an appropriate instrument at all. I'm saying this because it's one of the test pieces forward on whether we're actually taking privacy seriously. I believe that the majority who said yes to the Data Storage Directive does not. I record that the government is waiting to introduce it and does not fully know how to handle the matter. It may be good as long as they wait for it, but this case has to come up again, and we have to reject this if we are to safeguard privacy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e673	I did not really intend to take the floor in the debate all the time when the rapporteur, Mr Schou, from the Right, presented the Committee's position on a matter of annual reports and not a rematch or discussion on the Data Storage Directive. All the time the representative Karin Andersen says that the Progress Party does not take the floor, we found out that we would like to do the same thing as the representative, namely read aloud from something the Progress Party has written and said earlier about the Data Storage Directive. Our action programme for this period says: ‘ICT developments must not be at the expense of privacy and the right of people to privacy. Strong data supervision and clear legal constraints are therefore important in relation to the types of information that authorities and private bodies can collect and make use of for individuals. FrP is opposed to the Data Storage Directive and to other legislation whereby the entire population is put under continuous surveillance in practice. Furthermore, legal protection of freedom of expression and anonymity should be introduced on the Internet. Individuals shall have full access to their personal data.’;» This is what our programme of action says. Like previous contributions from the current Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen, we have a clear and clear position on the Data Storage Directive, but we do not feel that the setting of the Annual Reports of the Data Protection Authority and the Subject is the right opportunity to discuss it. We also record that the batches that have been merged in the context of the introduction of the Data Storage Directive still have a solid majority in Stortinget. For this reason, we do not feel that this is the opportunity to discuss this, and we are otherwise behind the comments that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e685	Although this case concerns the 2012 Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority, I am pleased that the Committee is in all material terms united and looks forward to the challenges we face. Privacy is an increasingly important topic in our digital everyday life. The presentation of the annual reports to the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority provides Stortinget with a good opportunity to discuss privacy. I'm glad. We marked 28 January this year the International Privacy Day. To this end, the Data Protection Authority and the Technology Council presented a joint report on the state and trends of privacy in 2014. One of the most important issues was people's attitude to privacy. The study shows that 46 pst. is more concerned with privacy than they were before. This may be related to the increasing presence of privacy issues on the political agenda and also in the media. Whatever is the reason for this increased consciousness: this is something we have to take over. Many people experience having their privacy breached. The government is working to do something about this challenge. A key objective of the government is to modernise the public sector. To succeed, we rely on good technological solutions that also safeguard privacy. Technology and privacy need not be contradictory. If we build privacy-friendly solutions into technology from the start, they can play on layers. The earlier the privacy process is put on the agenda, the easier it is to maintain important privacy considerations. We will therefore take the idea of integrated privacy with us in the process of renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector. It's not just when developing new technologies that it's important to think privacy at the beginning of the process. The same consideration should also apply in the general legislative and investigative work carried out by the government. An increasing number of issues have implications for privacy. Often, however, it is difficult to see these, because the interventions come in small drops. Then the authorities must be aware of these drops. We need to be able to put them into a wider context and analyse their impact before implementing measures. In this way, the Data Protection Authority has an important role both through participation in preparatory processes and, ultimately, as an actor in consultation rounds. The aim must be to enable the Data Protection Authority to make its input as early as possible into the processes so that privacy can be integrated into the actions implemented. The government is committed to the right and freedom and self-determination of the individual. Privacy is at the highest level about the right to self-determination and about the ownership and right of individuals to have their own personal data. Data are being collected in more and more contexts and for more and more purposes. So-called Big Data is used by both authorities and private actors. The largest Internet service providers are based on the trading of personal data as their main source of income. The extensive collection makes it difficult for each of us to control who is sitting on our personal data and what they are used for. In spite of this, most people are concerned about keeping this check, as we have seen from the Data Protection Authority's survey. Good information is important for the exercise of their own rights, such as the right to determine their own personal data. The government has a great responsibility to inform its citizens about their privacy rights and how they can use them. This is a responsibility that we focus on, and that includes, among other things. are provided with good guidance and transparent data protection rules. I have noticed a debate that the representative Michael Tetzschner has raised in connection with a possible sale of Nets, which is responsible for much of the bank's payment service. I am pleased that this debate is going on. Of course, I cannot comment on a possible sale, but if a sale would raise new data protection issues, it is important that the Data Protection Authority assess this issue, namely because it is the Data Protection Authority that grants a concession to the banks for the processing of personal data. I see that the Committee has noted that the Annual Reports of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer provide a good overview of both the companies and the key issues that characterise their work. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e708	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e712	In the annual report, the Data Protection Authority refers to the work they have done to facilitate Storting’s decision on the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. Work has not been completed because there is still considerable uncertainty about the legal premises for implementation. As indicated in the Committee's position, we in the Centre Party, together with the SV and the Left, have a comment expressing the need for a new round on the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. The European Court of Justice now assesses the legality of the Directive as it exists. I notice that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the vote say that this is not the time to review it, referring to the case before the European Court of Justice. My question to the Council of State is whether it shares the assessment that Norway should not assess on its own basis the different aspects of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, as new circumstances have emerged since the adoption of the Decision in the Stortinget in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e717	Let me just first stress that it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Transport that is responsible for the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. I would also like to point out that it has not been long since the Senterpartiet and SV themselves were in government, and they were in government when it was decided that the Data Storage Directive was to be implemented. This is the case in the Advocate-General’s opinions in connection with the handling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, among others. indicates that the storage time may be too long. The Advocate General has pointed out that the retention period of two years may be disproportionate and that it should be reduced to one year. Norway has adopted six months — so that several of the points raised by the Advocate-General have already taken Norway into account by providing more stringent legislation than the EU model.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e724	I think there is first reason to remind the Council of State that the SV and the Central Party took this one on the Data Storage Directive, and that there was a majority in the Stortinget, where we did not vote for it. So it was a different situation than with the government we now have, where there are parties in the government that are opposed, but which are unfortunately in favour. But I was going to ask for something else, and that's the comment that's related to working life, where the Data Protection Authority signals that it believes that there is a need to use an infringement fee in cases where the compilation and reuse of data is contrary to the law. When the Right Party and the Advance Party are not involved in these remarks, nor is it a Christian People's Party, it is a majority in the Grand Council who say in a way, "No, you shouldn't." It's an important thing, the use of tools to actually stop illegal activity. How will the Council of State deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e731	Let me first stress that I am aware that the SV and the Central Party took this one in the Data Storage Directive. Nevertheless, it is a reality that the SV and the Senterpartiet were put into government when the Data Storage Directive was adopted in Norwegian law. This is the case with regard to social protection, that a working group has been set up to assess these issues. That group will deliver its position during the spring, and then it is natural that both government parties and government await the assessments in this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e738	I wonder if there are any more specific considerations that make the Council of State think that we do not need any action in this area, as the Data Protection Authority suggests that we should do so. The body set up to do so demonstrates that there is an increasing use of labour market surveillance in contravention of legislation, and they want to make use of this instrument. Does this mean that the State Council is now sending to the Data Protection Authority a stop order to use these instruments? In concrete terms, what does the Council of State now say? Is there a stop order – pending the selection setting is complete – or does the Data Protection Authority have to use these means, which they consider necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e745	I did not express any stop order in my post. Of course, we don't want to give anything like that. I just stressed that when there is a working group going on, it is natural that both the government parties and the government await the position of the working group before commenting on these issues in the context of a committee voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e750	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e755	Firstly, I would like to point out that it is the 2012 Annual Reports of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer, not for 2013, that have finally reached the Size of Processing. The reason I make a point of this is that the Annual Reports of the Data Protection Authority and the Subject were completed and sent to the Ministry on 8 and 11 February 2013 respectively. We can thus see that the Stoltenberg administration spent more than half a year writing four pages of the introduction, which basically prejudges what the Data Protection Authority has already sent. This is not a very forward-looking attitude. If you look at the date of August 23rd, which is the date of the Stoltenberg government's presentation, you can wonder if they were interested in discussing with the previous big thing, which had gone apart then, and which was not met any more before the election. They've had another case for treatment, the Mongstad case, where it was quite consciously an avoidance technique when it came to the public word change. 2013 was a very eventful year for privacy issues. Monitoring of ordinary, law-abiding people in their everyday lives was identified as a major global problem — and not least the absence of an international legal order beyond the EU and the EEA territory — through the leakages of staff related to these services. These were also issues that were well known when the government presented its annual reports to the Stortinget. Although the annual reports, as I said, are for 2012, it is permissible to refer to event situations that take place after the notification period is over. It should be done in this case. I would like to take this opportunity to draw up something that is relevant, namely the case of what might prove to be the sale of information about bank customers in Norway. Most of us use contract giro, letter giro, bank acceptance, e-invoices and other card and mini bank services. So it's the infrastructure of these financial payment schemes that is now on the way to being sold out. It is a major problem and also reminds us that developments are still ahead of us. There is no trace of this in the annual reports — which could have preceded such a development. This shows just how important it is to have a discussion in Stortinget based on updated documents. I would also like to add that I interpret the Council of State Sanner as having a more forward-looking and proactive view of privacy policy. He represents a government that holds itself more closely and the Stortinges orientated about international development. That is at least my expectation, and I believe that is justified by the statements made by the Council of State Sanner earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e766	The representative, Tetzschner, addresses important issues. But I have to say that when we get the answer that there is a working group set up, and that you have to look at issues where the Data Protection Agency is asking for the use of tools, it doesn't seem exactly forward-looking, when you look at it. In the workplace, there are major challenges to this, just as in very many other areas. The reason I took the floor was the contribution from the party representative of the Progress Party, who quoted from the programme of the Progress Party where they say that they are opposed to the Data Storage Directive, in a matter that deals with how the number of major challenges in the area of privacy are increasing, in a matter in which they are not included in comments that point this out, which is entirely in line with the views expressed by the Progress Party that they have, but where they are doing something completely different in government. The difference between SV and the Progress Party is that when we were in government and this was adopted, we took this one. We voted against in Stortinget, and we argued for our views both ways. What characterizes the Progress Party now is that they say one thing out there and something completely different in government. They keep talking to two tongues -- systematically -- to mislead people as to what they really stand for. I think that's a problem. In particular, there must be a problem for the Minister of Justice, who has clearly stated in this Chamber that some of the arguments for it, namely that it should contribute to the fight against crime, are wrong and that it will not help. This must be a problem both for the government and for the Progress Party. I want the Progress Party to be included, as they were when we discussed the Data Storage Directive. We need all the voices here, because it's a huge challenge in the future to put systems in place so that we prevent monitoring, and so that the tool that ICT is becomes a tool and not a means of monitoring people. That is why I challenge the Progress Party here, because we need all these voices. This is not something you – to say it like that – just have to discuss in enclosed spaces. This matter is so important that we just have to discuss it in open rooms. From the open room, the Progress Party has been completely gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e777	We haven't gotten away from the open room at all. We set the agenda every day – on different themes. The representative of the Socialist Left will not take over is what we are dealing with here today: we are dealing with the 2012 Annual Reports. We are not debating the data storage directive today; we are not going to vote for the data storage directive today. Let there be no doubt about what the Progress Party means. The quotations from the current representative of Storing Anders Anundsen that the representative of SV read out still apply. We have not reversed the issue of the Data Storage Directive. It's the same majority today as when it was adopted. The reason why we are not involved in the comment and are not in the debate on the Data Storage Directive – goes into it – is simply that it is not the matter we are dealing with. The Socialist Left Party must also deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e786	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e790	The annual messages we address point to the major, important challenges we face in the area of privacy. Then it is absolutely necessary to look ahead when dealing with this matter – using the annual reports and the facts that lie there, to assess the challenges we have in the future. This does not do the Progress Party at all. The party’s representative was up here now and said that in this room there is still a majority of the data storage directive. Yes, it is. But other things do not prevent the Progress Party from touring high and low in all media, for example. proposals for referendums on immigration policy, on which there is a dwindling disagreement. There is no other party that agrees. Nevertheless, the Progress Party chooses to flag it high, while they choose to be mouse-silent about the serious challenges for most people when implementing the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e797	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We shall then proceed, as previously adopted, to Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e813	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e822	The efforts of Norway in Afghanistan have confronted us with demanding challenges, both in terms of civil development efforts, military efforts to carry out security and to find a political solution that can secure this war-torn country a better and more stable future. Over all these years, Norwegian Afghanistan policy has been presented to the Stortinget, and here the parties have largely managed to agree on both the policies and the promises of the combined Norwegian effort. The work on this option has also given us a clear overview of the main orientation of the broad evaluation to be carried out. From the department we have been confirmed that the government will start the preparations this year and carry out the evaluation in 2015. We have thus come a good deal further since Stortinget last discussed the matter last spring. As a case spokesman, I am very pleased with this. I would like to thank my colleagues on the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee for their constructive cooperation on the position and the Left for taking the initiative again through the proposal for a representative. Both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence were contacted in the proceedings, and they have stated in a joint letter of reply that the government will adopt a mandate for the mid-year review of the Afghanistan operation. They suggest that the review be carried out by a group of experts, supported by a professional reference group. The Ministry also announces that they will inform Stortinget about the further work. In our work on matters, we have agreed that this should not only be information to the Stortinget, but that the Stortinget should be consulted on the mandate, composition and future plans for the review. It shows that one from the government party is adding up to an inclusive process, which I find very positive. The broad evaluation that we are now facing will be both important and demanding. I would like to stress that there should be a holistic review in which one evaluates both the international military efforts, the civil assistance and the political process we have sought to participate in. It is also important to look at the impact of these different components on performance across different sectors. The international perspective is also important to include, for Norwegian efforts in all these three fields have entered into greater international cooperation where international bodies, such as the United States, have been involved. The UN and NATO have had important roles. Here there may be lessons to learn, both about our will and the ability to influence the design of the international strategies and not least how we have exploited the space we have had to design the Norwegian contributions. On the basis of these presentations, there is a joint committee which notes that the intention of the draft representative will now be followed up, with the clarifications on the organisation of the review to which I have referred. It is on this basis that we propose that document 8:12 be annexed to the Minutes. From the Christian People's Party's side, we would particularly like to highlight briefly how important it is that there is not just a technical review. We look forward to a holistic evaluation that seeks to answer the major questions about the impact of the Norwegian effort, as part of wider international cooperation in the civil, military and political sectors. We think there can be a lot of lessons to learn here, and our impression is that Norwegian personnel and Norwegian institutions have made an effort, but that the authorities have been very demanding. Personally, I believe that aspects of the overarching strategy, lack of coordination and different conflicting interests of the regimes in Afghanistan, traditional power structures, local warlords, the Taliban and other powerful networks in total have created a situation that has made it difficult to achieve as good a result as one has wanted. Developing a rule of law with democracy, human rights and a well-informed people is probably more like a generation project than something that can be done in a decade. That's why I don't think anyone should go to the chest and just say what I said. We all have something to learn, both in view of the further efforts in Afghanistan and the experience we can take advantage of in development and military operations elsewhere in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e835	I would like to thank the proposers for making an important proposal, and I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for doing a very good job on this matter. The international community and Norway have been civilly and militarily engaged in Afghanistan for more than 10 years. The ISAF operation in Afghanistan is due to close soon, but Norwegian assistance to Afghanistan will continue at a high level. There is broad consensus that an evaluation of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan will be carried out. It was established by an overall Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence during the examination of document 8:29 S during the previous magnification period. The Committee stated that: ‘When the transition process with the closure of ISAF is completed in 2014, it will be natural to return to the issue of a review of the whole effort in Afghanistan’. This is the same message that comes in a letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence on 17 January this year, so the matter we are dealing with now does not apply if we are going to carry out a review, but when. Over the course of several years, the majority has been given the opportunity to follow the efforts made in Afghanistan. The government of Stoltenberg also stressed the need to keep in touch with the Grand Duchy of Afghanistan and made annual presentations in the Grand Duchy on developments in this country. Evaluation has also been carried out. The civil efforts in the area of assistance over the last 10 years were subject to an independent evaluation in 2012 and ongoing evaluations of military efforts have also been carried out, inter alia. through NATO Periodic Mission Reviews. An evaluation of military efforts is also seen in the context of the involvement of other countries. There is a need for an overall review, not only to assess what has worked, but also to identify what could have been done differently. This means looking at aspects related to both Norway's civil and military involvement in Afghanistan. An evaluation should look at the coordination between civil and military engagement, it should look at the results of assistance, the relationship with the security situation of Norwegian personnel and the follow-up of civil and military personnel during and after the end of the mission. For civil and military personnel who have contributed to this international operation, it has been challenging. It has also led to risks and therefore it is important for them to carry out a comprehensive evaluation. It will be an important recognition of their efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e857	First, I would like to thank you for the important efforts and participation of all those who have made the Norwegian contribution in Afghanistan for many years. For some, this service for Norway has been the largest victim, and the contribution in Afghanistan has not only affected those who have served there, but it has also been a heavy burden and has meant a lot to family and friends, where more have lost their girlfriends. For several years, the Swedish Defence Research Institute has conducted eight surveys in the Faryab province, where Norway has participated with the Norwegian-led Provincial Reconstruction Team, Meymaneh, as part of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force. These surveys provide some information and may to some extent indicate the trends over a limited period of time on some themes. In addition, research is carried out at the Norwegian Arctic University in Tromsø on the relations and effects of the involvement of civil actors against military activity and the interaction between these actors. So some research has been carried out, but many questions and relationships have not been clarified. It is therefore important that we now be able to carry out a more comprehensive evaluation of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan. The purpose of the report is not to ask questions about each individual contribution, but to determine the status of Norway’s efforts to make correct changes and assessments of any further effort, but especially in order to be better prepared for similar operations if Norway is to contribute to NATO cooperation in the future. The right-hand side supports such a review, for example: should have as a mandate to evaluate the initial mission of Norway committed itself to strategically and operationally, and to evaluate the cooperation and coordination between civil and military engagement and the security situation of Norwegian personnel and the follow-up of personnel upon completion of their mission. In addition, I believe it is important to evaluate the situation where the defence personnel were exposed, because the previous government did not recognise that Norway was engaged in acts of war in Afghanistan when it was many experienced in its efforts, participation and victim. In addition, I would like to stress that regardless of the results of the report, everyone who has participated in operations in Afghanistan will have a valuable self-experienced experience by participating in international operations, interacting with other nations, and some will also have war experiences. This combined – at good and bad – will in total, as I see it, strengthen the Norwegian Defence Force. I myself have training from the Defence Department and have served in Afghanistan for seven months as head of an operation center for a multinational force with Norwegian leadership. I have therefore experienced and seen many of the challenges that our forces are facing, and how we deal with demanding situations – often with life as an effort for a mission given to the Defence of the Storting. In evaluating the involvement in Afghanistan, I expect honest, honest and ex-post management of the realities, so that the information that emerges can provide the Stortinget with insight, understanding, competence and governance information for new decisions when Norway, if necessary, participates in NATO cooperation in the future. I would also like to stress that the Minister for Defence has on several occasions been very clear that she and the government want an evaluation of the efforts in Afghanistan. With broad agreement within the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we will be able to have a good basis for this further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e876	On the left, we are now very pleased that a unanimous increase is behind the need for a broad evaluation of Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan. We have been in Afghanistan for more than 12 years now with military efforts. In all these years, there has been a significant civil effort. We have lost ten soldiers in these years. For seven years we have had a leading position in the Faryab province coordinating both civil and military efforts. The ISAF operation will be completed during 2014 and the effort will then move into a new phase. From the left, it is important that Norway also looks forward to participating in the years to come, in particular with civil efforts, but also with military efforts if necessary and desirable. There are many things that have been achieved in Afghanistan during these years. An increasing number go to school, child mortality has fallen, and there is an economic development, to mention something, but there is still a difficult security situation. There is a widespread degree of corruption and the widespread drug trafficking in Afghanistan has not been overcome. We are now faced with a presidential election, with the uncertainty it entails. It is essential that a presidential election should be held that gives the necessary legitimacy to a new president. There is also uncertainty as to whether the new President will be willing to sign an agreement on continued military presence in Afghanistan. Norway has participated as a small part of a large and extensive international operation. It is important now that we evaluate Norwegian efforts and also see them in the context of the international operation. There are many who have had important roles, whether they are in the government of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, or many non-governmental organisations that have been involved in Afghanistan, and we have had both the police and the defence in a heavy state. Now it is important to look at whether we have managed to achieve mutually reinforcing cooperation between separate civil and military actors in Afghanistan. This also applies in particular to the efforts made in the Faryab province. Did the Faryab strategy that was put in place give the right and necessary results, or were it aspects of the one that made it too inadequate to achieve what was desired? Has the Norwegian model, with a very sharp distinction between civil and military efforts, produced the necessary results? On the left, it is important to stress that soldiers should not be involved in relief work. Nevertheless, good coordination between civil and military efforts is essential to achieve results. We are now concerned that we need a broad and independent evaluation of Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan. It is important to seek to bring experts and others into the expert group to implement this and also to obtain a reference group. On the left, we are very pleased that the Committee and also the government state that not only should we inform the Stortingen but we should also come to the Stortingen to have a more thorough consultation when designing the mandate and carrying out the evaluation. This evaluation is crucial, so that we get a good learning culture, that we learn from what has happened in Afghanistan, to further develop Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan in the years to come, but also to learn from what has happened in Afghanistan to further develop Norwegian efforts, possibly elsewhere, where Norway will have both military and civil efforts in the years to come. With this, the Left is very pleased that we have a unanimous enlargement that will vote in favour of this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e899	I would first like to pay tribute to the proposers. This is an important proposal, and the Committee stands united behind the intentions of the proposal, even if one wants to wait until the transition process, the completion of the ISAF mission, has been completed – so all the tribute to the proposers. In addition, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough review of the vote. Afghanistan has been and is still an important issue to discuss. Not least, when you have this review, it is important to look at what you have learned from the contributions we have made there — to see it later, but also if similar situations arise and Norway should engage in a similar way later. Then it's important to learn from it, both what you could do differently, and what you've done in a good way. Nor is there any doubt that it is both right and important that Norway has been involved and is still involved and contributing in Afghanistan, both military and civilian. That is why I would also like to take the opportunity to thank those who have served in the military contribution in Afghanistan. They're our heroes, and we have a lot to thank for. The Afghan people have a lot to thank for, they have made a formidable effort, and they have just done what we in Telemark call a difference to ordinary people. In addition, of course, I would also like to thank the civil actors who have been in place in Afghanistan. It is also worth asking the question: what is ‘end game’, how do you think the exit strategy should be? We're still going to have a contribution in Afghanistan, I think there's a broad consensus here, but at the same time it's important to think that the time is coming when you're going to think of a nearly complete exit strategy. At least it's worth taking it with you, too, and think about it a little bit. In the same context, we need to think a little about what are the objectives of success: how do we measure that it has been successful in Afghanistan? We can look at some points. The focus on education that is now in Afghanistan would simply not have been possible if we had not had that commitment from the international side – both military and civil – as we see now. 40 pst. girls are now going to school in Afghanistan. That in itself is almost enough for us to be able to defend the contribution that we have had there. In addition, we are also facing the first democratic elections in Afghanistan. It's not a small event. We're talking about a place in the world where there are quite major challenges to democracy and human rights. That there will be no perfect choice, or perfect election – or what to call it – now, I think we should be able to live with. But that it will be as good as it can be within the limits you have, I look forward to it. So it's said in the past that there is no military solution in Afghanistan. There's never been any military solution in Afghanistan, that's absolutely right. But there is also no solution without military assistance in Afghanistan, because what has been done in Afghanistan in the years it has been there would simply not have been possible without the military contribution, including the efforts of the Norwegian forces. On the part of the Progress Party, we support the intentions of the proposal. We look forward to the comprehensive and thorough evaluation being carried out. It is also very important to take the international dimension into account in that evaluation, not to carry out an evaluation with only Norwegian eyes, but to do so in consultation with those with whom we have actually cooperated on the ground in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e918	Those who have suffered the greatest victims in Afghanistan are the local people – those who live there, those who grew up there, those who have served there, and those who have suffered their losses. I have read the book 'I am Malala'. There is a deep and strong insight into what it is like to be a child and grow up in a war zone where cruel events are happening. In this case, everyone will do the best, and Norway has our heavy presence in Afghanistan in conjunction with the international community. Then it is important that one in an evaluation looks at all sides when one is going through this – both the military and the civil. It is good, therefore, for one to receive such a proposal for a representative, but also for one to be prepared in line with the progress that the Storting has gathered behind, and according to the timetable, so that one can get the answers to the questions that one needs. It is important for Norway to get answers to all sides of such participation, with status, but also to make the right changes to an effort and not least follow up the personnel who have been in Afghanistan. It is also important that we take care of the international perspective of this review, so that one can evaluate all aspects. The Central Party is confident that both mandates and evaluations will be carried out in a good way, and that we will receive the answers that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e929	There's a lot to say about the debate about the war in Afghanistan – decided around it and various aspects of it – but I thought I would leave it at this point. There have been many opportunities before, and there will be opportunities for a wider debate on it. I'd rather go into what's the very question: the need for an evaluation. I share that view that everyone else who has spoken here has. It is wise to carry out a broad-based evaluation. I believe that the time the government has indicated to the committee is right. It sounds like the right timing to do it. I think that the main content of what they have reported – it is the preliminary superior – is correctly presented. Let me say some in-depth words about some moments I think will be important. First of all, this is the absolute largest, most long-lasting and toughest war participation and military operation Norway has participated in after the Second World War. It is absolutely important to evaluate in depth the operation itself, not least in relation to the enormous resources we have used, and the loss of human life. I also want to focus on how the solar data in retrospect manage it, and how it is for the relatives and family in retrospect – a moment I thought it would be important to come up with a comprehensive evaluation. So I thought one had to go beyond the civil development effort, maybe not just specifically in relation to how it works, because there are well-established processes within the developing world, but a fundamental question we have to ask ourselves is the relationship between civil and military development efforts. If we compare with Rest-Yugoslavia in the 1990s with Iraq, the picture is that the ratio – how little has been spent on development in Afghanistan compared to the military effort – is enormously different in those operations. The ratio was much higher for civilians, and especially great is the difference with Yugoslavia. It's a cross of thought. How the overall picture has been affected is important to look at, as well as what others have been about, how interaction has worked. I think that gathering the political image of the will to get into a broad political process early enough, as well as civil development and military operation, will be very important. In my view, it is one of the failures that was made for many years and that it was possible to understand was wrong that time too. Getting willing into it is important. So my experience is that about everyone who has any opinion about Afghanistan, not least those who have served there on behalf of Norway, is extremely concerned about honesty around what is happening. One of the ways we can honour their efforts is to have a very honest review and evaluation of what has happened. I think that would be important for those who have served in the military, for others who have shared in Afghanistan, and for us to learn from it in retrospect. And then I'll just say in the end that there's a little note here as three of the games, among other things. SV, has, and as I found it hard to understand why not everyone has joined. It is because it is underlined by a Joint Committee that it is important to have a broad review of civil, military, political, but then some of the parties write that it is important that all those perspectives are represented in the review. The multiple has been chosen not to join. It may be for technical reasons that they do not want it to be in a particular setting. I could think of righting either the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirming that one will actually ensure a wide representation. There may also be more than one selection, etc. for all I know, but I would like to stress that having a wide range of competences represented I consider very important, if it is to be a good evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e948	Let me first begin by stating that it is right to carry out an evaluation of Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan. Preparations for an overall evaluation will start this year and the Stortinget will be informed about the mandate, composition and progress plan for the review. At the same time, the government will place great emphasis on maintaining the broad consensus on our overall involvement in Afghanistan and continuing the consultations with the Stortinge on this issue. There has been a strength from 2001 until today that there has been broad consensus in this room – from the SV to the Progress Party – around the device related to both long-term assistance, humanitarian efforts and military contributions. I also think that we are going to use today to reflect on what has happened and what has been achieved since 2001. In 2001, Afghanistan was a haven for international terrorism driven by Al Qaida. It's not anymore. In 2001, under 1 million students went to school — almost no girls. Today there are over 8 million children in a country of 30 million who attend school, and beyond 40 p.m. Of them, your girls. According to the World Bank, there was a health coverage of 8 p.m. in 2001. Now you're up to 80 pst. Mother mortality has fallen dramatically, child mortality has fallen dramatically. Nevertheless, of course, the country faces fundamental challenges and problems of corruption. This will be the most important task of the new president. Corruption permeates society, and it is not acceptable. It is also the case that problems related to drug and opium production are being faced. This has to be addressed. What has also happened in recent years is that the Afghans have taken much more responsibility for their own security. Over 350 000 Afghan security forces are now responsible for security in Afghanistan, supported by ISAF and US soldiers – 45 000. It's gone down from 120 000, and these are to be stepped down further in the future. Of course, a presence requires the conclusion of a security agreement between the United States and Afghanistan, and later a NATO-based one. But the fact that Afghans are now taking much more responsibility for their own security — 350,000 who are now also being trained by our crews — also makes it much more difficult for the Taliban to operate. Now they're shooting at their own. When I met President Karzai this weekend, he cancelled a state visit to Sri Lanka, for unfortunately there were 20 Afghan soldiers killed by rebels. He went in, he looked at this, and what they were now confronted with also caused disgust in Kabul. Of course, we as a wholesaler now need to evaluate Norwegian efforts. We're going to do that. But I also have to say that I don't think it's possible – at least not for me – to make a post about Afghanistan without thanking the Norwegian soldiers who have taken a great personal risk, been in and out of a situation where girls can go to school again in Afghanistan, and where health services are available. It also seems that for the first time you can have a democratic transfer of power from one president to another in Afghanistan. It might seem that you can probably have over 7 000 voice rooms open. There were almost no television channels in 2001, and now there is a presidential debate on a dozen television channels in Afghanistan. We must now not just cultivate the challenges associated with Afghanistan. They are there – in fact, it is still one of the poorest countries. We must also thank the humanitarian aid workers who have taken responsibility, the Norwegian soldiers who have been there and helped to contribute to this positive development, the Norwegian aid workers and the Norwegian personnel associated with the embassies and the delegates. Norway has been on a mission where we in Stortinget have agreed – from SV to the Progress Party. Now we're going to look at how we can learn from this, but we also have to stress the positive results that we've seen and achieved in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e965	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e969	There's a lot of agreement that we're going to evaluate, and I'm looking forward to the Storting being kept informed in the process. But what I wanted to ask was actually in the light of the statements made by the representative, Alexandrova. I think it is natural to ask the following: Is the Foreign Minister agreeing with me that Norway has been, and is, at war in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e976	I'm not going to go into that discussion there. I have stated that Norway has a mandate based on a mandate from the Security Council. This has been given to ISAF, and this has also been given to the Americans. The UN Security Council has re-adopted a mandate every year to set out to get rid of Al Qaida first and to support the Afghan security forces. Today, as I also said in my post, it is Afghan forces that have now assumed responsibility for security – 350,000. It is okay to have had this discussion on war in the past, but today it is quite obvious that the Afghans – with 350 000 – are responsible for the security of Afghanistan, and our role is to build capacity towards them. That is what is the role of ISAF and the United States today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e983	The background to my question was that the representative Alexandrova took up the lack of ability of the previous government to clarify that it was war and acts of war, had to be included in an evaluation. Everyone knows that we have shared in war acts and wars, but the reason why formerly defence and foreign ministers have blackmailed about teams like the Minister of Foreign Affairs now is that we simply don't have it. It has been important for them for formal reasons to take care of it, as it is probably for the Foreign Minister now, in addition to the fact that it has been a transfer of responsibility. Let's just say that there's no doubt that for everyone who has shared, it stands out as war. I know that for many of them it is important that it is recognised, and that it has been the worst acts of war between Norwegian men and women, since the Second World War, but there may still be reasons why a Council of State should not express it that way. Does the Foreign Minister agree with that reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e994	Yes, I agree with what Stortinget has joined unanimously for many years, namely that a mandate has been given to Norway, both humanitarian, aid and military, to participate in Afghanistan. As the representative Solhjell himself had in mind, this has now changed quite strongly from last summer, because last summer it was decided that Afghan forces had taken over security responsibilities. Now we support the work of the Afghan forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e999	If Norway has not been at war under international law, there is no doubt that Norwegian soldiers have been at war, and that Norwegian political leadership is responsible for Norwegian soldiers also participating in Afghanistan. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is important to underline the positive developments that have taken place in Afghanistan. It is definitely not such that this can be judged as a failure of effort over 12 years. Here's what you pointed out, a lot of things that have gone in the right direction. It is important now, when we move on to a new phase, that we are looking at the fact that there must be an effort to be made over many years, in particular with civil efforts, but also with possible military efforts. My question is: Although it would be wrong to say that the efforts in Afghanistan from the international community have failed, is it still possible to fail, unless you strengthen and have strong efforts in the years to come? The presidential election that comes now to spring is particularly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1009	I fully agree that the presidential elections – and that they are carried out in such a way that they have the legitimacy of the Afghan people – are crucial. It is also essential that the Afghan security forces, of 350 000, receive the necessary support in the years to come so that they can actually carry out their mission. Without it it will be difficult to go to school, and it will be difficult to have the health services that are needed. Security must be created for the Afghan people. That is why, in my view, we must be present with long-term assistance. Of course, based on a security agreement, we should also complete the task we have undertaken, namely to enable the Afghans to safeguard their own security. I also think it is good, as Mr Elvesuen emphasises, that there are many Nordics who have taken on a great responsibility in Afghanistan. I think we should stress this and thank Norwegian soldiers, Norwegian humanitarian workers and Norwegian aid workers for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1014	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1017	I want to thank the proposers and not least the case rapporteur for a very good and comprehensive article. The terrorist attacks that hit the US East Coast on 11 September 2001 changed the security policy context in many ways and created an unbridled situation. We were then with the international community entering Afghanistan in 2001, a country marked by conflicts, unrest and distress. Afghanistan was considered a threat to international peace and security and, in particular, the Afghan territory was used as an exercise area for terrorism. It is important to bear in mind the overall objective of the international community’s efforts. It was to prevent Afghanistan from once again becoming the site of international terrorism. It also implicitly follows a desire to develop the country in a positive and democratic direction to prevent it from happening again. The ongoing transition process, in which the Afghans are to assume full security responsibilities throughout the country by the end of this year, at the same time means that the ISAF mission, almost 13 years long, is coming to an end. But the mission is not finished, and we are now in a critical final phase. As Minister of Defence, I am very concerned that we are talking about the contribution in the present, not in the past. We still have 190 Norwegian soldiers who take a big risk every day. They're going to be out there the year -- a few less towards the end of the year, but we're going to have a military presence in the country all this year. We need to talk about the contribution and the assignment in the present time. It is also important that we focus in the future on a good and tidy completion of the ISAF mission itself. There's still a lot that can go wrong, and if we lose focus on the important mission, the risk is great. Let me quote what former foreign minister Espen Barth Eide said in the debate we had about a similar proposal last May: ‘It’s not that it’s almost over, it’s actually now we’re going into the most important phase. That's when the transition itself happens. This is not what we did in isolation in 2008 or 2002 — or for that matter in 2012 — that is the main point of our efforts.’ Those are wise words, to which I subscribe, and it also underlines the importance of having the attention to what is happening in Afghanistan today and in the months ahead. At the same time, it is important to stress that even if the ISAF operation goes to the end and is to end when this year is over, NATO is planning for a Resolute Support Mission, which has been discussed by many. Like all other NATO allies and partners, Norway has an assessment of how we might contribute to that operation, but it is therefore entirely dependent on the signing of a security agreement between Afghanistan and the United States and a so-called Status of Forces Agreement between NATO and Afghanistan. We have solved many and varied tasks with our allies. The operation has been and is very complex. We have used a wide range of instruments, ranging from civil to military. It is important to summarise what we have learned, bring with us the experience and not least contribute to an open and honest debate. I also want to commend many of the soldiers who have been in the operations and told their stories through books and television series, because it has contributed to an understanding of what the mission has been about, and it has contributed to increased recognition. Like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the defence has carried out ongoing assessments and evaluations of its efforts. There has been a large transfer of experience from one quota to another. But it's important to summarize it, it's important to learn from it, because we're going to go into surgery in the future as well. Finally, I would like to mention two points relating to the content of the evaluation. One important thing to remember is that we have also been involved in an international operation with partners and allies. We haven't operated in a vacuum, we've been part of an international operation that needs to be evaluated in its entirety. The second is what I mentioned in the debate last year, namely that it is important to assess and evaluate all aspects of the effort, including the issue of the so-called Norwegian model, the distinction between civil and military action, which should be accompanied by clear coordination between the two. I am concerned that we are going to this evaluation with both humility and respect, not least in reverence for all those who have stood and stand in the operation, and who have given – in many cases – the ultimate sacrifice for us others to be safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1046	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1049	Does the Minister of Defence agree that if we are to achieve the latest – simply to be fully understood in an evaluation of the interaction between political, civil and military – is it wise that competence from the various areas is also represented in the selection or selections to look at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1055	As both the Foreign Minister and I base the letter we sent to Stortinget, it should be a group of experts with the support of a professional reference group. I think it is quite natural that there is competence from all the areas to which the evaluation is to be addressed, including in this evaluation group.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1060	The Minister of Defence and many here have stressed that Norwegian defence has every reason to be proud of the efforts made in Afghanistan over the past 12 years, just as many in relief organisations and civil society have every reason to be proud of what they have done over the past 12 years. Nevertheless, it is often the case that although everyone does a good job, coordination is not necessarily good enough to ensure that the results are as desired. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister of Defence will also go into the Norwegian model. Then I think it's important, as I've stressed, that you have an open approach to this, and you don't have bastant preliminary conclusions, but that there's a real review of how this worked. First of all, this is also a political responsibility both for big business and for the Norwegian government. The question is really, a little bit of an extension: how will the Minister of Defence ensure that we are just getting this independent review of the entire operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1067	I very much agree with the representative of Elvesuen that it is important to have this overall perspective, also that which is linked to the so-called Norwegian model. It's because it's been a very important precursor to our efforts, both civil and military. It would be equally natural to evaluate if there had been another model that was used. It's kind of been the framework around a lot of the efforts we've made, and it's natural that it's being evaluated. It will, of course, also be reflected in the composition and mandate of the evaluation committee that we also have these pages. There's also something researched on this. I don't want the bastant to conclude on any field of what we're going to go into and evaluate now. It would be a short stop to the evaluation process, and we need the knowledge to be able to make the conclusions. But I think it is important that we see some of the areas that have been the subject of discussion – areas in which we might have made better use of the resources, obtained and achieved better and more lasting results – also being reviewed, like all that, it has the representative Elvesuen quite right in, both civil and military can be very proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1074	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1079	I would also like to start by thanking all those who have made a great effort in Afghanistan, and all those who have been willing to sacrifice for their homeland, namely what soldiers are willing to sacrifice for us in war in Norway, on the basis of decisions made in this Chamber. The reason why the Left has promoted this proposal over and over again – and we are very pleased that we are now getting a majority in the Chamber – is precisely the wish of many of the soldiers who have been in Afghanistan, that someone should look at the job they have done, just wanted from many of the aid workers who have been on dangerous missions, who want someone to show the job that has been done, and what framework conditions we as politicians are giving for that job. Therefore, I am also a little surprised that we did not receive support for the comment, as Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell pointed out, that we should also acquire foreign expertise, expertise on the outside of the Norwegian trade union environment, which is small and dense, and which often evaluates the job on the basis of meeting people in the future who will assess the evaluation that has been made. I think it is important to have international expertise, expertise on the outside of the professional environments we have in Norway. Then there was a sentence with the Foreign Minister that I think it's okay to point out. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said it was important to assume that the evaluation should reflect the broad political majority that has been in the Chamber. That's not what I'm so concerned about. I'm concerned that it should be honest. It's going to have to rock at the same time. It has to show that some of what we've done in this room was stupid in relation to the assumptions our soldiers and our helpers are going to get. I'm not concerned with the consensus in this room, I'm concerned that we're going to get the facts out. Last year showed us that getting unpleasant evaluations of unpleasant national events is healthy for us as a nation, is healthy for our bureaucracy, is healthy for those who are going to do the important tasks for us. The most important thing here is honesty and facts on the table. I'm not interested in consensus at all. They will be exposed to many such tasks, Norwegian defence and Norwegian assistance, in the decades to come. Having the quality of it and talking honestly about it is much more important than always cultivating the consensus. My challenge to the group that's going to do this job is to look at how we can do things better and talk honestly about it, completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1092	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox We're going back to case number. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1108	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1115	The Norwegian defence industry has long traditions. National weapon and ammunition production was a prerequisite for our independence. Kongsberg Vaabenfabrik was founded in 1814, the same year that Norway got its own constitution, and the same year that Norway got its own navy. Raufoss Ammunition factories were established by the Norwegian State in 1897. Production was first only ammunition, but the company was later split into several units such as: target the car industry. Today, Nammo is 45 pst. State-owned. The other shares are owned by the Finnish and Swedish defence industries. Sometimes you have to stop and reflect on the administrative responsibility we have for Norwegian industrial history. Yes, we can set up great museums in memory of lost time, but if we are to succeed as a nation in building this country further, we must give our industrial success stories the very best framework conditions. Both Kongsberg and Nammo are producing high-tech today, and we should be proud of the company's ability to convert and to produce both for the civil and military market. The companies have created ring-effects for other Norwegian industries, and today there are about 100 companies that have their work related to these two major companies. The total value of Norwegian exports of defence equipment in 2012 was 4.6 billion. kr. This includes multi-use goods. That's an increase of 687 million. kr from the previous year. The high-tech and engineering technologies involved in the production of advanced defence equipment contribute to the further development of Norway as a high-tech country. The defence industry is an important contributor to the maintenance of skills jobs in Norway, not least in the districts. It is of great value that Norwegian engineers can use their talent to further develop the world's most advanced technology. The ring effects are significant. Norway has the most stringent code for exports of defence equipment in the world. That's good. Some believe that the legislation should impose even more restrictions. In reality, it means the hook at the door of the Norwegian defence industry. This is confirmed by the Association of the Defence and Security Industries. We must not wash the baby with the bath water in the name of goodness. The attitude of the Central Party, the Left and the SV in the setting of this message is that they only want to sell defence material to countries that are proven not to need it. Well, the truth is, if such assumptions are to be based, our defence industry must shut down. Yes, weapons are a terrible thing. They kill and mutilate. Of course, the best thing would have been that all countries, religions and ethnic groups had made peace with each other. But there we are not. As long as people are willing to fight to death for a cause, there will be weapons. Norway’s objective is, of course, that the components, weapons and ammunition produced in Norway should serve to deter and thus contribute to the reduction of war-related killings and minor suffering. But there is no guarantee. Almost all of the focus in the comments on this matter is on how we can find new ways to limit the export. While other countries are doing their utmost to maintain skills jobs and reduce unemployment, Norwegian growth competes for who can be the most restrictive. There's something funny and strange about such an attitude. At the same time, everyone is happy to spend tax revenue and oil money on the State budget. Not least this applies to the Left, SV and Center Parties. The central party also claims to be a friend of the districts, but the party’s attitude to the role of the defence industry as a business developer in the districts shows that the center party cries crocodile tears when the party complains about the lack of district focus in Storting. You cannot demand trustworthiness when you are at the same time ahead of and against the development of nutrition. The requirements of those batches for the introduction of the end-user declaration by all countries, including NATO countries, are simply unaccountable and irresponsible. A proposal to require a national end-user declaration is a theoretical approach that will not be feasible. The United States will never sign such a statement, and American technology is part of all defence systems in our part of the world. Norwegian defence companies produce almost exclusively components that are part of major international development projects, and the requirement for an end-user declaration will mean that the Norwegian defence industry will not have the opportunity to participate in the projects. One might wonder what the Centre Party, the Left and the SV believe Norway will live on in the future. Oil revenues will end one day, and naive idealism is not particularly profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1143	Let me first say that having a modern defence industry is part of our defence and security policy. The defence industry is of strategic importance for Norway. The defence industry is also among our leading innovators. The research and technological development carried out at Kongsberg, at Nammo, at the FFI and at a number of subcontracting companies is one of the best available in Norway, and it also creates ring-effects for other industries. Norway has a modern and converted response defence based on significant investment in new technologies and investment in new material and new capacities. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the defence has close and close cooperation with industry and research communities. The Norwegian defence industry creates significant values. The industry represents about 4,500 annual works. Exports actually account for more than half of this total turnover. Without exports, many environments of competence would be lost. At the same time, Norway has an open defence market. We're importing 70 pst. of our capacity — largely from NATO countries, as well as from Sweden, which represents a very large proportion, as we have heard earlier this winter. The Norwegian defence industry specialises in special areas, including sub-production and components. We want Norwegian exports of defence equipment to be carried out within strict limits and with clear international driving rules, where Norway has gone on its way. On 16 January, the Stortinget Arms Trade Treaty, which was adopted by the United Nations on 2 April 2013 and signed on 3 June of that year, ratified. Norway worked actively during the negotiations for a strong agreement with humanitarian devices, in close cooperation with like-minded countries and international civil society. The agreement is an important breakthrough in achieving greater accountability in arms trading. We have to remember that handguns and different weapons of this kind kill most people in the world and cause great human suffering, so it might be right to call these weapons the real weapons of mass destruction. I also refer to the review of the Arms Trade Treaty in the paper. In the autumn of 2005, the United Nations adopted guidelines on the labelling and traceability of small arms. It also started the agreement on 2 April 2013. In 2010, the government also initiated a dialogue with the defence industry on traceability. Norway has also concluded on the EU Common Position on Small Arms of 12 July 2002. In 2010, Norway included the eight EU behaviour criteria on arms exports in a separate annex to the U.D. Guidelines, Annex A criteria. Norway has also implemented the EU ICT Directive in Norwegian law. For several decades Norway has had a strict export regime, which has also been strengthened in recent years. Weapons and ammunition shall not be sold to areas of war or civil war. We have meant this for decades after decades. In 1997, democratic rights and respect for human rights were put in place as criteria. Me and the Labour Party assume that the current government will enforce these rules in the same way that the Red-Green government did. In 2010, a separate section for export control was established. The guidelines for exports of defence equipment were amended by 16 September 2013. It is also a unanimous committee that supports the government to continue its work in the relevant international forums in order to achieve a common standard for end-user documentation, and to work to ensure that this becomes a norm in NATO. So it is a unanimous committee. This has been done by the governments for a long time. NATO is a consensus body, and we in the Labour Party are very pleased that we have a unanimous committee position here. What we cannot support from the Workers' Party is a minority comment that component exports are subject to the Annex A criteria. When Kongsberg produces composite material or missiles for F-35 or Joint Strike Figther, our new fighter aircraft, we cannot of course determine where the United States exports the planes, as well as us. Norwegian defence industry and subcontractors have a lot of sub-production for foreign defence equipment. Industry is very multinational. The more important it is, then, with international agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1171	I would first of all say that we fully support Marit Nybakk in the last relationship she took up. I think it is important that we know what is the Norwegian arms industry. There is reason to speak up the Norwegian arms industry and focus on steps we have taken recently in politics. First of all, Norway has one of the world’s most stringent control regimes for exports of defence equipment. The regulatory framework is characterised by transparency and reproducibility, which is the task of following up the export control notification. That's exactly why we have this message for processing. It is important, not only for the authorities, but also for the Norwegian defence industry, that we have strict and transparent rules. The Norwegian defence industry with spearheads at Kongsberg and Nammo has been very important value creators and technology developers in our country. It ensures highly skilled jobs in the districts and provides quality recognised far beyond the borders of Norway. The company's deliveries help us to have the high-tech defence we depend on. There may be reason to recall why we have a defense, and why the defense must be set up with modern weapon technology, to ensure values and peaceful development. Disagreements have been raised within the Committee. I'm not going to go into these too much, but focus on what we agree on, and which I think the hearing also reflected to a great extent. Everyone agrees that we should have an arms export. Everyone supports the fact that we have a Norwegian defence with a high level of defence, and that other countries should also have the right to defend themselves. Everyone agrees that Norway should be a leading country when it comes to peace and reconciliation and that it should be reflected in our arms exports. Everyone agrees that humanitarian law is inevitable and that civilians should never be attacked. And everyone should agree that we have put in place good control mechanisms for exports through the seven-point list and progress in international legislation. This is a checklist made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, to ensure more systematic assessments of the conditions relating to respect for human rights, international humanitarian law and the domestic policy situation resulting from existing contradictions or armed conflicts in the final country of destination. I would also like to make further improvements, both for export possibilities and for control mechanisms in the area of conventional weapons. On 14 January this year — as the tenth country in the world — the Storting decided to ratify the Arms Trade Treaty. This is how we have ensured that we have a ban on exports if there is a danger that the weapons to be exported can be used for genocide, terrorism, war crimes or organized crime. There is still something to be done, because only when 50 countries have ratified the agreement will the agreement enter into force. Since the previous communication, we have also seen great progress in the area of the EEA Agreement. The regulation based on the EEA Directive on simplified licensing of defence-related products gave the Norwegian defence industry immediate challenges, but also opportunities for closer trade both with the EU and with NATO countries. There is also a need to enhance the transparency of the international arms trading system. At the same time, Norway’s cooperation with EU countries ensures that Norwegian enterprises adapt to as much equal competitive conditions as possible. As a summary, I would say that we have better control mechanisms than ever. Therefore, I think it is remarkable that some parties that were in agreement last year and who actually helped promote this message now have something to postpone the export control message – which they themselves have promoted in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1199	Norway has a strict code for the export of weapons and other defence equipment, and that is important for many reasons. The Christian People's Party has been a driver for responsible regulation of arms trafficking and other forms of arms control. Non-responsible arms trafficking would be a truce not only against peace between nations, it would also create a high risk of the use of the equipment for internal repression and human rights violations. Furthermore, it would put responsible manufacturers of defence equipment in a very difficult situation, as they could more easily be held responsible for the illegal use of the products. It is therefore for good reason that Norwegian companies producing defence equipment have expressed support for the development of restrictive legislation. They also helped to develop this, among others. by establishing a system for marking and tracing ammunition. The Norwegian Arms Export Code has been developed over many decades. With national export control rules, supplier countries may take a particular responsibility to ensure compliance with international agreements in the non-proliferation field. Rapid technological developments make it important to follow up, so that legislation is constantly being revised so as to avoid dangerous gaps in control systems. We have also supported the development of an international arms trading and arms control agency from Norway. What we get from Norwegian export regulations is important enough, but it'll be like stopping the flood of water by putting a rock in the river – if we don't get other countries to make commitments. Only then can we build a dam that's good luck. In the Christian People's Party, we see it as an important breakthrough that last year the UN General Assembly adopted the first legally binding agreement that regulates international arms trade. The majority agreed to ratify this agreement in January this year. There is now a need to ensure rapid ratification for many countries, so that the agreement has a real effect. International binding agreements are also important to ensure that Norwegian businesses are provided with as much framework conditions as foreign competitors. An example of changes in the UN-adopted arms embargo that are now being extended to other regimes to which Norway has joined, for example. from the EU and the OSCE. In addition, a licence is now required for all goods that can develop the military capabilities of other states in a way that is contrary to essential Norwegian security and defence interests. Another step forward is the checklist that is now in place to ensure systematic assessments of the risk that exports might jeopardise respect for human rights, international humanitarian law and other conditions in the areas where the equipment ends. Such systematics is important to prevent export goods from being used in an internal conflict, to suppress, to engage in other countries, or as a means of political pressure against others. We must avoid Norwegian defence material coming into the hands of authoritarian regimes or states where the equipment is used for serious violations of human rights. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the Stortinge being updated on the experience of both this new arrangement and the new checklist. We believe Norway should be a driver in international efforts to improve the user documentation and strengthen international agreements on labelling and traceability. This annual review of the Biggest Export Code for Defence Matters has now been 18 years in a row, and changing governments have helped to develop the rules. We need precise regulations so that we can build a safer value step by step.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1220	First of all, I need to clarify a relationship that Storting has to notice in this matter. On an incursion, the Centre Party was joined by a note, along with Left and SV, which the Centre Party should not be involved in. Then I refer to the note on page 6 of the setting that has been submitted to the related final user declaration. Otherwise, the Center Party will be involved in the other comments. When it comes to the proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European We found the configuration of the committee to be clear and clear and need no further clarifications. Norway has a strict regime for arms trafficking, and it is important that the government has good control and overview of arms exports. Openness must be with and guarantee the legitimacy that is absolutely necessary. But it is important to ensure Norwegian business, so that one has a level playing field, and it is also important that companies are aware of their actions and ethical standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1229	The left is a political party based on the voluntary shooter. That means we have a heart for the shooters, and we think they've done a lot of good to develop Norwegian weapons culture. However, this is not the starting point for our defence policy, our industrial policy or how freedom struggles in Norway should be fought today. First of all, I would like to stress that there is a broad consensus on strict rules and a strict regime in the case of Norwegian arms exports. I am a little surprised at the notion that you should only trade with countries that do not need it. I am of the opinion that Norway is a country that respects human rights fairly well, sail if we can get better. I think Norway is a good democracy where the voice matters. I believe that we meet many of the requirements that we could be a country to which we could export. I am still of the opinion that Norway is a country that should have a defence, and that it is important that countries such as Norway, which have both democracy and respect human rights, have a strong defence. My nightmare is not that countries like Norway should be the strong ones that come out of a arms trade. It is the aim of this — to strengthen those countries that actually have important human rights and democracy to fight for, and to weaken those countries that do not. I want to symbolize a story that we never got verified, but it could be a thought-provoking picture: Libya was a country to which Norway exported B-material. The materials included: spotlights. At some point, Norway is exporting light bulbs to Libya. Then the Libyan regime breaks down, and the UN asks Norway to send Norwegian fighter planes over Libya. Then it means that there are Norwegian-produced lighters that light up to search Norwegian fighter aircraft and Norwegian fighter aircraft pilots at work for the UN to release Libya. That's what we're talking about here. We're not just talking about which regimes we're going to support, we're also talking about which bullets can meet Norwegian soldiers when Norwegian soldiers are sent on mission by this hall. I don't want us to end up in a situation where we export to countries that allow Norwegian-produced bullets to be targeted at Norwegian soldiers. There is an important and good reason to have strong rules on how to export armaments. I would like to spend a lot of the money and many Norwegian weapons on just those countries that some people don't think need it, but which I think are important to defend democracy and human rights. So to the discussion about the end-user statement in terms of NATO, which also Marit Nybakk pointed out that there is agreement on. In politics, someone can say that the others don't want to, so we can't do this. I believe that the policy should be aimed at ensuring that our allies too do not kindly to regimes export to countries that allow Norwegian soldiers to get Norwegian-produced bullets aimed at themselves. That's why I think this is something you should reach for, something you should work for, and I'm glad that there's such a broad consensus attached to it. Some of us are more impatient than others, and the left has always been at this point. We believe that it is always important to be restrictive in the case of Norwegian arms exports. I believe that it also helps to give predictability to these industries that the rules are known, that they are open, and that people know the scope of action they have to deal with. The most important thing for Norwegian business is long-term sustainability, transparency and predictability. I believe that these debates are in fact a basis for that, and I believe that we should work in NATO also to ensure that our allies have as high standards as we do when it comes to arms exports. I think that's important in the future. The left is clearly behind its comments, and we are very pleased that there is such a broad consensus in such an important matter. It's important for the Storting, and it's important for that industry, but first of all it's important for all the Norwegian soldiers that we send out to do important jobs for Norway, that we haven't created a regime that allows Norwegian bullets to target them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1250	Let me first say that there are no incubators in the setting for SV's part, just the considered position. Insofar as anyone should be in doubt, neither is SV a party that comes out of the voluntary shooter community, but rather of that case spokesman so pointed out in his post, that the best thing would have been for all countries, religions and ethnic groups to end peace with each other. I'm proud of that. This is a good message for the previous government. It also shows the broad agreement here about the main features of it. Not least, it is gratifying that the review and preparation of a checkpoint list for human rights and democracy requirements is now widely supported – i.e. support within the Committee – and full support for its impact. It's also the way that all parties, apart from the government parties, clearly state that they will have consequences by not exporting to countries that are grossly violating human rights. The reason why it is so important that Norway has a strict regime is – paragraph 1 – that weapons, unlike most goods, kill people. Although most weapons are not used, too many are used. Therefore, it is extremely important that they do not end up in the wrong hands, in war and armed conflict, or in those who use them to oppress their own people. If one is to be a peace nation, which at least much of the political environment in Norway, including myself, has ambitions that we should be, we are a better nation of peace if our arms exports do not go to war and conflict at the same time. The background for the improvements that are made here when it comes to human rights and democracy is the Arab Spring and what was then discovered. It turned out, as it was quite rightly said here, that Norway has had a small hall of B-material to Libya, and it turned out that we have had a significant hall of B-material to Egypt, but also that we have had hall to others of dictatorship in the Middle East. There is a lot to say about these countries, but there is no doubt that we are now tightening up our demands, because a major part of the repression in many of those countries is the armed power that governs them. In my opinion, there are two important holes in the Norwegian export control regime that we still have not got to grips with. The first concerns the introduction of a declaration of end-user behaviour. It was a great step forward when, in the Soria Moria II declaration to the previous government, we expressed so clearly that we would now work towards the norm in NATO, and that there was a common agreement on that. It's now a consensual committee, I notice, that actually joins the position that only a few parties had a few years ago. But we've now been working quite actively on it in NATO. In fact, there are also quite a number of NATO countries that have the same hold that it's going to be right, and the largest of them is probably Germany. Now is the time to go ahead and introduce it. That's how the world moves forward: someone goes one step ahead, others follow, and then we go that way. It will be an important step – because a lot of our arms exports go there – that we will actually get the assurance that it will not be sold to countries to which we do not want to export ourselves, because they, for example, are not sold. is in war and conflict. But most importantly, the development we have seen in recent years is that the Norwegian arms exporters buy or establish factories in other countries: Nammo Talley in the United States producing M72 which can end up in Israel – the United States sells M72 to Israel – Nammo who recently bought a factory in Spain, but also a number of examples in other countries. The Church's Emergency Aid has produced a report in which they go through the export control regime of the Norwegian companies now own factories, and shows that there is a significant difference in that – that they export to a number of countries to which Norway does not export because of our own legislation. Of course, it may be partly to reduce costs and come closer to markets that allow businesses to enter, but it is problematic if it is a motive to escape a strict Norwegian export code and have the factory in another country for example. to be able to sell to Israel or to Saudi Arabia or other Arab countries — or Colombia, to which Spain has a significant export. Therefore, it is necessary that exports from the companies abroad owned by Norwegian companies also follow the Norwegian export control regime and the Norwegian legislation. We can ensure that through ownership policy, because both Nammo and Kongsberg – the two big ones – are 50 pst. State-owned. It will follow up on SV, and it will be an important improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1271	It is a very good thing that the Stortinget is debating this very important issue, the issue of the export of Norwegian defence equipment to countries that are seriously violating human rights. Report. St. 49 for 2012–2013 ensures that information on Norwegian exports of weapons is made available to people and to elected representatives. It provides the basis for a good debate on the problematic aspects of this export – a debate that we now have and which the Greens very much appreciate. But it's not all the trolls that crack just because there's daylight. Norwegian arms exports have continued to grow, not least under the red-green government, and exports have almost doubled in the last decade. It increased by 18 pst. from 2011 to 2012. This is not a problem in itself, but the notification demonstrates that Norway continues to sell defence equipment to regimes that commit serious violations of human rights. In 2012, we exported munitions of war to Saudi Arabia, to the United Arab Emirates, to Qatar, to Kuwait and to other countries where the authorities commit gross violations of human rights. For this reason, the Green Party would like to congratulate the majority of the Committee on the fact that the vote now specifically states that Norway should not sell armaments to regimes that commit serious violations of human rights. This majority comment can be historical – at least if the Grand Duchy and the Government choose to interpret it as it will obviously be interpreted by the people most, namely that Norway must not export defence material to countries that seriously violate human rights, and which we thus exported to as late as 2012 I'm sure we have most people with us that it is unacceptable that Norway is helping to increase military capacity in purely dictatorships. Such exports necessarily contribute to further repression, and it is high time that the Storting was fully prepared to avoid this. The majority decided in 2011 to change practices aimed at preventing exports to authoritarian regimes. But even after this decision it was unclear whether the Storting actually said an absolute no to export to purely dictatorships. In 2012, the Stortinget concluded that the material should not be used for repression, but much indicates that the door remained open, or at least open, for exports to regimes that commit gross violations of human rights. So the question is, does the 2012 criteria mean a ban, or does it mean acceptance to sell defence materials to dictatorships just promise not to use them for repression? If the Stortinget believes that we should not export to such countries, we should now ensure that it becomes absolutely clear. I hope that the good work of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee in this matter will lead to a clear decision stating that Norway should not export war material to countries such as the United States. Saudi Arabia and the Emirates. The Greens therefore believe that the Storting should ask the government for a clear explanation or information on which countries we should not export defence material due to the majority position on human rights. We therefore present the following proposals, which have been distributed in the Chamber: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting during the spring session, explaining which countries would not be able to receive defence material from Norway as a result of the majority comments on human rights in the inner. [[2013-2014]] 103 S By the word ‘declaration’ we believe that the government finds an appropriate way to inform the Storting about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1295	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1299	I do not know if it was in the hope that I would read the Green Party's manuscript that it was left here, but I put it aside and go to the manuscript I have prepared. Report. S No 49 for 2012–2013 is the 18th annual notification of its kind. The notification confirms a good tradition in Norway for the transparency of exports of defence equipment and a strict and predictable regulatory framework. This is actually quite unique internationally. The general rule of 1959 and the guidelines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for these exports are established. They apply to all licence applications, including those from our allies in NATO, which account for most of the imports of defence equipment from Norway. I'm glad that the Storting for many years has ended up on this line. I can also confirm to the representative Marit Nybakk, who put this in good perspective in relation to both the importance of the Norwegian high-tech industry here and what has been the line of the former government, that this government will continue it. I am also pleased that the representative Marit Nybakk, on behalf of the Workers' Party, says that the government's understanding of the legislation in place here should be a continuation of the legislation that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV used to interpret under the Stoltenberg II Government. The message that Stortinget is now handling was provided by the Stoltenberg II administration. We didn't draw the message. We thought it was a very solid message. It covers exports of defence equipment in 2012 and shows how the previous government practiced the export control code, also related to so-called B-material, i.e. non-armed military material. This government will continue the same practice as the previous government as regards the interpretation of whom we can export B-materials to. It is also linked to the statements made in relation to human rights. I remember then that the previous government, after a concrete assessment, chose to open up exports to countries in the Gulf. The total value of exports of Norwegian armaments was approximately. 4.6 B.C.E. kr in 2012, of which nearly SEK 3.9 billion. kr represented the sale. Weapons and ammunition, A-material, amounted to 3.3 billion. kr and other military equipment, B-material, approx. 574 million. kr. 78 pst. of A-material and 90 pst. of B-materials went to NATO and other European countries in 2012. In 2012, exports increased by 18pst, and over the last ten years, there has been a doubling of arms exports. Even in such a situation, I don't think anyone has questioned Norway's role as a peace nation. I understand that some representatives have questioned whether the policy pursued by the previous government in this area was possible to combine with being a peace nation. I think the previous government is doing very well, and I intend, in all humility, to try to continue in this coming period. Following the unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, a more systematic risk assessment of countries of destination was initiated. A review showed that there was a restrictive line with regard to which States could obtain defence equipment from Norway. At the same time, there was room for a stronger systematic approach in the assessments of, inter alia, human rights in the recipient countries. The previous government updated the guidelines in 2013 to clarify that a licence for B-materials can also be refused when there is an unacceptable risk that it will be used for internal repression. Documentation requirements have also been reinforced. It is also worth noting that in June a new export control regulation came into force, with the permission of suspending or limiting a previously issued licence. The government supports this approach and will keep the Stortinget informed about the work of the annual communications.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1320	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1323	There has been a broad political consensus on arms export rules for a long, long time. It is important for the defence industry. They work long-term, both with the development of new weapon systems and with the conclusion of contracts, which are often long-term. Wide political consensus means stable framework conditions over time, although some changes are being made to ensure that Norwegian weapons do not deviate. However, the case's rapporteur, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, strongly argued against the further development of the export regime and almost ridiculed those who believe it is important to prevent the Norwegian arms from coming to a balance. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was ready to make his statement. He wants to continue the policy of the previous government. However, the question is whether the main spokesman of the government parties here warns that the government's parliamentary basis wants a change in arms export policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1332	Like what I said in my post, as a response to the posts of the representative Marit Nybakk, this government attaches great importance to continuing the practice carried out by the Stoltenberg II government. That, I think, was a nuanced policy, which also bore the important responsibility we have for not getting the weapon into the wrong hands, but at the same time a regime that makes it possible to build a high-tech industry in Norway in the arms field. We must also remember that this is an important part of our own defence and security policy. A country that does not have competence in the field of the arms industry will weaken its defence capabilities. With sea areas that are eight times larger than our territory, I think that makes a lot of sense. This is a high-tech industry that creates important jobs. The representative should therefore deal with my post, where I have explained the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1339	I, too, have to rely on the contributions of Mr Tybring-Gjedde, because it is a unanimous committee that supports the Norwegian Government's continuing work in the relevant international forums in order to achieve a common standard for end-user documentation, and to work to ensure that there is a standard in NATO. I have listened to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, both in the hall today and in the Political Quarter this morning, and believe that he expresses the opposite. This is a practice that the Stoltenberg government has had over several years — a systematic but certainly very slow work within NATO, in order to achieve a common standard for the end-user declaration. This takes time, there is disagreement in NATO, NATO is a consensus body – but I still want to ask if the Foreign Minister will continue this work, in line with a unanimous remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1346	I think it's wise for the government to deal with unanimous comments from the committee on such a demanding issue as this one with arms exports. I think – and I agree – that, as a long-term aspiration, this is to be able to agree that everyone should be able to issue end-user declarations, including by our allied countries, very sensible. This important work, which was started by the previous government at this point, we will continue. Realism is sure that the representative Nybakk can also tell us a little bit about it, because the previous government has been trying it out for a few years towards our closest ally, the United States. The possibility of getting them to issue an end-user statement is probably not so great in the short term, but the United States has chosen to go in for an end-user documentation. So it's also not immaterial in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1355	I think that I and the Council of State very much agree that having predictability is also important for the industry this is in Norway, and that it is important to know the rules of the game. Then it's also important to be transparent. I wonder whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs – before we in the Left decide what we are going to decide – can also comment on the proposal put forward by the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance. What are his thoughts about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1362	I know the representative Skei Grande as a very wise party leader, and I am absolutely sure that the representative is able to draw his own conclusions. It is not common, in and of course, for me to comment on it, but I have seen it so that at least the two governmental parties will vote against that proposal – I was informed of that. I understand that, because it may create uncertainty as to whether the line that the previous government stood for is solid. What the representative Nybakk has stated here today is that with the comments that are now in the position, I have the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the population with me to continue, point by point, the policy of the previous government. I'm putting a lot of emphasis on that. And that proposal, if adopted, would probably mean a change in policy, and I understand that the Storting does not want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1369	On behalf of the previous government, I take the shame of the big message we made, and I choose to do as the Foreign Minister: stick to his posts and the comments of the majority. Of his posts, one can at least read that the government's main ambition in this area is to focus on exactly the same policy as the previous government led. Have it infected to the most possible policy area! But I would like to ask for a reflection relating to one relationship, namely that in the last few years the large Norwegian companies Nammo and Kongsberg have the group, which the state owns 50 pst. by, bought up factories in several countries and established factories in other countries, and thus it has been quite common for us to own factories ashore with a weaker export control regime than with us. I can't help but realize that, despite different views about what to do, there has to be a challenge for more people, and I would like to hear the Foreign Minister reflect on it. In what way, when it comes to challenges, can you think that you're willing to see what we can do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1378	I notice that the representative Solhjell hopes that this government will put itself on an identical line on an even more point than the previous government. In fact, in Norwegian defence and foreign policy there is quite a broad consensus on these lines, so I think you can find a lot of examples of that. If I can be so free, I would also like it to be very nice if the representative Solhjell, who was in the sub-committees of the previous government, also continues – at least the first months after leaving the government – and defends the policy of the previous government, and not least the big message that exists. If I'm not wrong, then I saw on TV last night that what's here could be interpreted as Norway is no longer a peace nation if you run arms exports. I think you should stick to that too well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1385	That's why I thought it was too good. No other way could be interpreted than that Norway has been a nation of peace and should continue to be. But as I said in my post, we'll be a better peace nation if we don't export weapons to countries that are in war and conflict, and they benefit from it. I'll stand for that. I'll tip the Secretary of State maybe a long way to go is in agreement with that. But he didn't answer my question – and I respect that, because there were other things to deal with – but he gets a new chance now. Is it not a challenge if Norwegian companies buy up and establish factories in other countries so that they can then sell to countries to which one according to Norwegian policy does not want to sell weapons – an agreed policy between Right, SV and others? And if there's some tool that you can think of to tackle such a challenge, when we hear that the two largest companies it's about, it's 50 pst. State-owned?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1393	In order for time not to leave me this time, I will answer the question. Here this government is not going to take initiatives other than the previous government, considering the Kongsberg Group and Nammo. They then established the representative Solhjell in government, also subsidiaries in other countries that have to deal with the export regime in those countries. But I assume, of course, that also foreign companies, for example. Thales and others, who are in Norway, have to deal with the strict legislation we have in Norway. To this end, with a nation of peace, there has never been any disagreement that you should not sell to nations that are at war. This is a continuation of the policy that the representative himself stood for a few months ago, so I have some difficulty understanding the whole reasoning that I saw at the NRK last night.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1402	Then I am delighted to explain quite simply that if Norway sells arms directly or indirectly to countries that are at war or conflict, or use weapons for brutal repression, I believe we will be a poorer nation of peace than if we avoid it. Essentially, we avoid it, because we have the world's most stringent arms export legislation. It was better through a very good big message, especially on the dictatorship and human rights side, but when, for example, we did. is in the situation that we know that a company or a factory in the United States that is owned by Nammo sells weapons to Israel, while Norwegian policy over many years, since the Bondevik II government, has been the opposite, I think it's an example of what we should be dealing with better. Then the Foreign Minister will probably answer that the previous government did not, and the representative put it there. He's right about that. We clean up a lot of other things here, but now we might be able to go on and grab it. Will the Foreign Minister take the initiative to at least look at this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1409	I have to say that I think this issue is somewhat up-to-date. For decades after decades, there has been a broad consensus in this Chamber that weapons should not be sold to countries in war and conflict. When the representative Solhjell was in government, Norwegian arms exports were almost doubled, but Norway was at the same time a peace nation. We're still going to be. Only in the last few years did it increase by 18 pst. In fact, it is possible to combine a strict export regime with exporting weapons and being a peace nation. At the points raised, both in the case of composites, and in the case of dealing with the export regimes of the various countries, I am very much concerned with the policy that the representative Solhjell himself was involved in designing when he was in the sub-committees of the previous government. To create uncertainty about what is Norway's policy here, and also this about whether Norway may be a peace nation, I am surprised that the representative is getting involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1414	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1417	First to the representatives Hansen and Nybakk, who did not listen to the post that I made: Yes, I agree that we should have strict export rules, and I can also say that to the Foreign Minister even if he would not quote me on it. Yes, I want strict export rules, and we are also unanimous in that, and yes, we are going to work for an end-user declaration within NATO. It's a big canvas to bleach. I pointed out that the United States is not going to accept it, and I can guarantee that they will not! We can work for it as much as we want, Solheel and everyone can, and we can be as much peace nation as we want, but the United States will never accept it. So we don't have to trick ourselves by pretending that's going to happen. It's the way American technology goes into absolutely every defense system in the West. Not only in two, five, or ten, but in all defence systems, the United States is the dominant party. Then we're going to have component production for some kind of defense system, we have to accept that the United States is part of it, and then we don't get a final statement – but we can work for it. We can't fool ourselves here. So to the representative, Skei Grande, if you're against the spotlights, I suggest that you boycott all sorts of cooperation with Libya. Lighters are going to get hold of Libya, whether they come from Norway or elsewhere. Light bulbs are not of any category within any kind of defense material. So if you get Norwegian lighters on Norwegian fighter aircraft – well, they'll be able to get there without going to Norway. We might be happy to be able to sell some lights here and there. So to the representative Solhjell, who says that we should have a final statement: yes, you would have to believe that and like to work for NATO countries to have a final statement, but you cannot at the same time say that you should maintain a defence industry, because that is a contradiction. You have to accept that you either have an end-user statement, is a peace nation and enjoys it, or you have to accept that the defence industry is shutting down. You can't get both! That's what I'm trying to say here on this pulpit, and it's strange that you don't understand it. I understand that you don't want to understand it, but that's the truth. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. So to the representative Solhjell again, who is talking about Norwegian companies that are in the U.S. and who are allegedly selling weapons to countries we don't like: no, they're not in the U.S. and they sell weapons to countries we don't like. They're subcontractors of American systems that might sell to countries we don't like. They have their production in the U.S. because it's profitable to have production in the U.S. and because the U.S. defense industry demands that they have their production in the U.S. It's no harder than that. And we can say no to that, say we don't want to, but then Kongsberg and Nammo and other businesses can't survive. Here you can't get in both bag and bag. We can be a peace nation and build museums to the memory of the past, but we can't, in fact, accept that there will be both exports of defence equipment and at the same time have an end-user statement. I'm sorry. We want to work for it in NATO. I have agreed to that, and the Progress Party has joined in these comments, that we should work for an end-user statement. I can tell the representatives Nybakk and Hansen that we're going to do it, we're going to work for it, but the United States is going to say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1442	In this case, there is an almost unanimous committee which has submitted its opinion, with the exception of a small comment. This shows that there is a widespread uprising in the United Kingdom about Norway’s relationship with the United Nations and with the government’s involvement in the United Nations. It's joyous, and it blends into the sequence of a long and good tradition in this hall. The Committee's work and my responsibilities as rapporteur on this matter have been simple, but I would nevertheless like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. The Committee has found reason to highlight some aspects of participation in the 67th and the follow-up to the 66th UN General Assembly, and they are reflected in the Committee's position. So here I want to focus on the more general. The legitimacy and ability of the UN to fulfil its core functions as an international actor depends on the experience of the organisation as relevant and effective. This means that the organisation must be able to adapt to international developments, including for representation and participation in the central decision-making bodies. Real strengthening of the UN requires reform and modernisation of nearly all levels of the organisation. The UN must also be able to respond to new and more complex types of challenges and crises. International political stability and organisation are fundamental to meeting many of the challenges we face. It is with such a hindrance that we can best win the fight against climate change and the fight against poverty, which are, of course, the greatest challenges of our time. Norway's policy towards intergovernmental organisations must take into account special interests, while at the same time it must be an objective to build up this policy under other aspects of development policy. The right's two main objectives of development policy are: permanent out of poverty and human rights and democracy. Norwegian interests are in many ways consistent with the interests of poor countries, at a different level. The economic situation of Norway depends on a robust international legal order. The same legal order is important for poor countries to achieve their development. Some claim that the UN's lack of action today is a matter of the will of the major powers to use the organisation and its principles, but the UN's ability to engage the multilateral system is not just a matter of political will to cooperate with the Member States; the role of the United Nations as an actor and arena is the sum of what the Member States agree to make the United Nations. There is a great need for internal UN reforms to reflect changes in world power conditions and new, important challenges in order to increase efficiency. The UN is the main international political arena and is a central player in international legal development, state building, development and humanitarian policy, the protection of human rights and crisis management. The UN's greatest strength is the meeting place, representativity and legitimacy resulting from the fact that the world's countries are almost universally members of the organisation. Norway will promote freedom, social responsibility, democracy, environmental protection and human rights. There is a close link between democracy and respect for human rights. Not only is democracy and respect for human rights important in itself; it also provides the basis for societies where personal initiative can generate growth and progress. Education for all is an important prerequisite for real participation and democracy. In order to achieve democracy and good governance, increased efforts must also be made to strengthen women's civil and political participation. This is therefore one of the main priorities of the Solberg government’s work in this area. Any country that does not grant its women equal rights to men will never become a democracy and will also exploit its full potential for growth and development. Finally, it is regrettable that the composition of the UN Human Rights Council is still not in line with the formal criteria and requirements imposed by the commitments made by the Member States, by continuing to be treated as members by countries which systematically and severely commit abuses against their own citizens. There is no doubt that this weakens the legitimacy and effectiveness of the Council. For the Right and for this government, the UN is very important. It is the cornerstone of a foreign policy where Norway is a small nation, but a large contributor. We need to use our power and influence to reform the UN and make demands so that the UN can become even better than the organisation is today. And let me add: with higher efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1470	The UN in its time was founded with the smoking ruins of World War II as a backstop. The driving force behind the UN Charter, which was signed in San Francisco on 24 June 1945, was a vision of a world in which war between nations could be prevented and prevented by collective action and not least a desire to avoid the mistakes that led to the world war: misguided politics, economic depression and social unrest. In parallel with the UN, Bretton Woods institutions were established. Today, it may be necessary to recall that both the IMF and the World Bank, despite faults and shortcomings, are important instruments in a world where we again see financial crises and economic decline. The United Nations Pact entered into force on 24 October 1945. Meanwhile, the world had seen the first atomic bomb exploded. The dream of reconciliation had broken cracks. The cold war had begun. The UN has had its downfalls, but there is respect for the smooth work of the World Organisation. This applies to conflict prevention and conflict resolution, women's liberation and gender equality, the fight against coercion and gender mutilation, and to the decolonisation of the 1960s. Security Resolution 1325 on women and security from October 2000 is an important milestone. If we now take the 67th ordinary General Assembly, it upgraded the status of Palestine in the United Nations. Norway voted in favour of the decision. I would also like to stress that Norway has also been well-informed on our own matters: the fight against the death penalty, the United Nations development activities, the follow-up to the Rio Conference and fisheries and food security. All of this came after strategic cooperation, usually across traditional dividing lines, but this is how it works within the United Nations system. The Committee considers that the UN Millennium Goals continue to be a clue to Norwegian development policy. Norway has taken special responsibility for the Millennium Goals No. 4 and 5: reduction of infant mortality and sexual and reproductive health. In recent years, foreign and security cooperation has become increasingly important in Nordic cooperation. Also in international organisations and overall, the Nordic countries are among the largest contributors to the UN and its underlying organisations. Nordic cooperation in the UN has played an important role – not only in the allocation of positions, but also in peace operations, in cooperation with governments, in funds and in programmes. I hope that the government of Solberg will follow the line of the previous government in this area. Norway supported the candidatures of Finland and Sweden to the Security Council and the Human Rights Council respectively. We know it didn't come forward, but that doesn't mean we're not going to continue to cooperate at Nordic level on the candidatures of individual Nordic countries to these bodies. I share Mr Halleraker's view on the composition of the Human Rights Council. I think it is a problem that there is a country in this Council which is itself violating human rights in part. Norway has been actively involved in the open debates of the United Nations, both as co-author of Nordic interventions and with the support of interventions by representatives from other Nordic countries. We work closely together in areas such as child and assembly, women's rights, equality, etc. This desire for the continuation of Nordic cooperation in the UN has also been reflected in the work of the Nordic Council. As late as 2013, a unanimous Citizens' and Consumers' Committee was proposed to the Nordic governments, among others. establishing a platform for Nordic cooperation within the Alliance of the United Nations Initiative on Civilizations. The Nordic Council further decided to participate as a member of the Alliance of the Civilizations initiative, which is part of the so-called Group of Friends, with an active attitude to promote human rights and freedom of expression. With the common culture and value base of the Nordic countries as a starting point, such participation will be an important contribution to the UN system. Finally, I would like to stress that some of what I really respect is the development and assistance work of the UN organisations. I've seen some of this out in the field, in Vietnam, in Mozambique, in Liberia and in other countries. I think the UN development programme must be one of the most important things we have in the world in terms of aid organisations. And with the important reform work we have gradually received, not least with the help of Norway, to bring together the organisations in a country under one common umbrella, which is the UN Resident Coordinator, I think we will have an even more effective development of what is working for the UN aid organisations. It is often the United Nations Development Programme that has been the UN Local Resident Coordinator. Moreover, it is important that we continue to press on to what is the continuing reform of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1506	I have been so lucky to be able to visit the UN system twice during the autumn that has been, and I have therefore also become acquainted with large parts of what the United Nations system stands for, and not least with the work that Norway contributes in terms of resources, both economic and human, and not least in terms of the ability to set the agenda and get support on issues that challenge the world community in so many different areas: climate, assistance, work for women's health, to name a few areas. In this setting, it is important to get the message that the United Nations system helps people every day to get a better tomorrow. Every day we take the world directly into our living rooms, at good and bad. Unfortunately, the crisis is what characterises the news picture, and the humanitarian suffering is enormous. It's enough to mention Syria and what's happening in Africa in this context. But Syria is also an example of how world society sits on the fence. The ability to do something is very limited. Since this case is about the UN, unfortunately, we see that politics often stands in the way of what is most obvious for people, but where we find that the major acts veto and block decisions that would make everyday life better for those who have a very difficult everyday life. I find that very frustrating to experience. We have a principle of Responsibility to Protect, and on the basis of that, I think the veto decisions of the Security Council are very difficult to accept and understand. I hope that we, who are strong contributors to the UN system, put this on the agenda of our own Parliament, but also work to bring forward these kinds of discussions to a much greater extent in the UN forums. I've said the United Nations system helps people every day. But it is also important to point out, as the two previous speakers have said, the areas where there is potential for improvement. Of course, we find that in such a large organization as the United Nations. Many people relate a great deal of bureaucracy and exaggeration to decisions, and that is the right thing to point out. However, it is also important not only to focus on efficiency and measurable results, but also to reduce work in areas where results come after a long time. During my visit to the United Nations, this has been taken up for debate, and everyone agrees that we will get the most help out of every dollar put on the table, but we must not forget that things take time. One of the areas in which Norway has been a driver is the Millennium Goal No. 4 – reducing infant mortality and maternal mortality – and Millennium Goal No. 5: working to improve the health of pregnant and pregnant women. This is a work that has given – and gives – very good results, but it is also a work that takes an incredibly long time, and where the results cannot be measured over days, but perhaps over many years. In this context, it is also interesting to mention how the policy comes in and makes things very difficult. We've seen countries with similar equal views of abortion and prevention cooperate across borders. We record that the Vatican cooperates closely with Muslim countries, and that archconservative environments are engaged in strong lobbying in this matter to prevent good decisions in this type of work. In this way, they make it even more difficult to achieve good results. I'm going to finish, but I want to tell you about my meeting with five young people from the five most poor countries in the world when they told me about their skills in being poor. It made an incredibly strong impression when they said they were not allowed to meet at school because they did not have enough food. It made a strong impression when one of them told about his friends who were married away as twelve, thirteen, fourteen-year-olds and had children. These things make an impression. That's why I also believe that the job that the United Nations is doing, not least by telling you that results are now being achieved, is important, because it can help millions of people to get a much better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1527	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Case No. 6 has already been treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1545	Already around the year 2000, I was made aware of the hidden, unknown refugee situation in East Sudan. They didn't have the world's attention focused on themselves, and so far they don't have it today. They were refugees from the young state of Eritrea, over whom people were enthusiastically cheered, and who gained their independence through a UN-monitored referendum in 1993. Here in East Sudan, hundreds of thousands of refugees from Eritrea were still present. They were not allowed to return to their home country after the release because they belonged to the ‘wrong’ release movement. The EPLF leadership, who ran and controlled Eritrea, would not let them into the country, and eventually new movements came. Today, 3,000 people flee from Eritrea every month: to East Sudan, to Djibouti, to other neighbouring countries – even to Ethiopia. Some try to get over the Mediterranean or through Sinai, sometimes with disastrous consequences. They're fleeing from one of the world's worst dictatorships. At the 2012 Press Freedom Index survey, the country is located at the bottom of 189 countries — under North Korea. There are serious repressions and massive violations of human rights. People are imprisoned indefinitely. Torture is widespread. The conditions in prison kill a lot of people. People are being chased out of the cities and out into the countryside. Academics are being persecuted and imprisoned. This sounds well-known if we go back a few decades in time to completely different parts of the world. In addition, the country is marked by mass poverty, illiteracy and all conceivable signs of error. Eritrea is the story of a liberation struggle that ended up completely wrong. It's been 20 years since the liberation of the country. Norway played an important role. Then we rejoiced that Eritrea had once again become a state of its own. So today, Eritrea is becoming a state with one of the world’s worst regimes – a country in complete disintegration. I was one of those who in the 1980s and early 1990s was active in Norway for support for the liberation of Eritrea, which had then become part of Ethiopia, because it was historically correct, and because after 1945 Norway was one of five countries that contributed to Eritrea being integrated into Ethiopia – not exactly part of our international commitment of which we are proud. In Norway, as in Sweden, there were many refugees from Eritrea at the time. They were engaged in the two liberation movements EPLF, the Eritrean Peoples' Liberation Front, and the ELF, the Eritrean Liberation Front, of which the ELF is actually the oldest. It was founded in 1956 and started a liberation fight in 1961. The EPLF was formed in 1971. They're the ones who now control Eritrea. They're the most -- to say it like that. In Norway, there was a large solidarity exposure in support of the liberation struggle for the independence of Eritrea, and the question of the history of Eritrea was central in this liberation struggle. Let me go even a little bit further back in time. While Ethiopia has never been colonized, Eritrea became an Italian colony in 1890. Ethiopia recognised in 1896 the Italian rule over Eritrea, but Ethiopia claimed throughout the liberation struggle that Eritrea had been part of Ethiopia for 2,000 years, with the exception of the period of European colonial rule. This history description was never accepted by the Eritreans. The axe kingdom was founded in the fourth century and consisted of parts of today's Eritrea. With the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869, Eritrea gained increased strategic importance, along with the colonization of Italy after that. This was a colonization supported by the United Kingdom, which feared French influence. Then we come to the 1930s and to the beginning of World War II. In line with Nazi Germany, Mussolini expanded in the 1930s. He took Ethiopia and beat Ethiopia, Eritrea and Italian Somaliland together into an administrative unit. After the desert war, the British took over. Thus, after 1945, the UN stated in a resolution that Eritrea was to be incorporated into the Ethiopian empire as an autonomous entity. The role of Norway, as I stressed, was that we supported this – otherwise in a very bad company. Ethiopia launched a strong repression of Eritrean culture and peculiarity, which is why liberation movements were also initiated. It is part of the story that Eritrea was annexed by Ethiopia in 1962 and became an Ethiopian province. It was now that refugee flows to neighbouring countries began. The Muslims in the north fled to East Sudan – several hundred thousand. The others fled elsewhere, and they were – and are – Coptic Christians. In 1971, the liberation movement was split into two: the ELF and the EPLF. In general, one might say that the EPLF was gradually dominated by the Christian majority, while the majority of the ELF were Muslims. This is also important in today's situation, because the danger of war between the religious groups is now becoming very large. We remember that Ethiopia was supported by the Soviet Union. We remember that the fall of the Soviet Union changed this, and that Gorbachev would no longer support Ethiopia's Mengistu Haile Mariam and his war against Eritrea. But the United States supported Ethiopia in the fact that the war was an internal Ethiopian conflict. So did the OAU, the current African Union. Following the change of regime in Ethiopia in June 1991, the EPLF took control of the capital of Asmara and formed a transitional government under the direction of Isaia Afewerki. In April 1993, we received the UN-monitored referendum. 99.8 pst. said yes to independence. Since then, things have been worse, not only with wars between Ethiopia and Eritrea, where Norway, among other things, has gone down. has been a mercenary, but because the EPLF, now a political party, has constantly postponed the parliamentary elections – it has not yet held a central election after independence – and because the repression was quite severe. As I said, the 700,000 refugees in East Sudan did not get back to Eritrea. In addition, today there are 156 000 refugees in Ethiopia, 30 000 in Djibouti and about 15 000 in Ethiopia. 50,000 in Yemen, and I mentioned them as refugees across the Mediterranean or through Sinai. Norway has influenced the development of Eritrea by several crossroads. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he will contribute to the United Nations keeping a higher focus on developments in Eritrea and on the refugee flow out of the country. The situation in Eritrea goes under the radar in many ways. There is very little information released, except for those who come from the country, including some relief organisations, which have been largely thrown out of the country now – including them. Journalists are also not allowed access to Eritrea, which is now almost as closed as North Korea, and which is in some statistics under North Korea. That means that it is necessary for the world community and the UN to have a strategy for what to do, if Eritrea suddenly falls to an end – that is, the state system collapses and we may have religious war between the Christian Coptic majority and the Muslims. We do not want a new Central African Republic – which is not so far away if you look at the map. I think one of the worst things that can happen now, given the situation on the Horn of Africa, is that the regime is collapsing in Eritrea. How can Norway in other ways contribute, in cooperation with the African Union and the region, to not Eritrean collapse, with the consequences it will have for the entire Horn of Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1583	The situation in Eritrea is serious. There is a closed country, which has given the international community few opportunities to cooperate. Eritrean is at the bottom of the UNDP Human Development Report. In 2013, Eritrea is ranked number 181 of 187 countries. Numerous reports from various organisations following the human rights situation – Reporters Without Borders, Human Rights Watch and East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders Project – have all documented serious and systematic human rights violations in Eritrea, as has also been established by the representative Nybakk in this interview. I am pleased that the representative addresses the acute humanitarian situation in Eritrea. The UN own reports on the human rights situation also confirm the picture drawn by the representative. It's systematic and gross human rights violations we're facing. However, following the last boat accident outside Lampedusa, Eritrean authorities have initiated a more constructive dialogue with the UN on human rights. The accident led to a state of emergency and put a heavy pressure on the authorities to address these questions, and it was just to be lacking. We lack accurate and credible data on the humanitarian situation in Eritrea. The previous government chose to shut down Norway's embassy in Asmara. This has led us to have less transparency and the ability to follow the situation, but the UN estimates that up to 60 pst. the population is undernourished. According to the European Commission's Institute for Environment and Sustainability, harvesting will be late this year. This could lead to an increase in food prices and a deterioration in the food safety situation. Eritrean authorities, on the other hand, reject the fact that there is food shortage. Humanitarian actors generally do not have access. This is totally unacceptable. The political situation has changed in the last year, but President Isaac Afewerki still has control, even though it is speculated in a coup d'état. The conflict with Ethiopia is central here. Eritrea is in some kind of state of war despite the fact that there is no ongoing war. Eritrea is run by the military. Large sections of the population are mobilised for military service for an indefinite period. Last year the Ministry of Information was surprisingly occupied by soldiers. It turns out that the dissatisfaction extends far into the military, and that forces within the country are working for change. It is difficult to say something exactly about political and economic development, but there is a real risk of collapse. But it's worth noting that in analyses from The Economist Intelligence Unit, economic growth is expected to be 8 pst. this year. The mining sector is the engine of the economy, and it appears that new players are entering this sector. The closed economy is preventing further growth. This situation is devastating for the economy and a normal social life. The Horn of Africa is a region in which Norway has a major commitment to peace, development and humanitarian aid, but also other foreign policy interests. Political developments in Eritrea have an impact on peace and security in this region. The geopolitical location alone makes Eritrea very relevant in the region. I have recently returned from a tour to Sudan, South Sudan and Ethiopia. Norway has a central position. We have played a central role in several peace processes in the region and have given considerable support to countries such as South Sudan, Somalia and Eritrea. Norway has had a close relationship with Eritrea since its independence in 1993. Through diplomacy and civil society, Norwegian actors have had a broad network of authorities and civil society. The last government laid down the embassy in Asmara, as I mentioned, last summer. It is now even more difficult to obtain information on domestic policies, economics and development, while continuing the dialogue with the authorities, as well as providing information to various UN organisations not represented in Asmara. The human rights situation in Eritrea has long been a source of deep concern. Norway has continued its criticism of the situation in the country with the international community, but no longer has the opportunity to travel it in Asmara. This year we have addressed the human rights situation with the authorities and in the UN, in the framework of the country hearings on human rights in Geneva. The militarisation of the Eritrean community is one of the root causes of the serious situation in the country. Eritrean authorities must respect fundamental human rights enshrined in international and national law. I am particularly concerned about the condition of freedom of expression. Eritrean authorities have allowed a UN delegation to visit the country to assess the human rights situation. It's a careful step in the right direction. But they must also have access to the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights. We have asked for feedback from the authorities on the areas in which an improvement can be expected. We are willing to continue the dialogue with the regime, but only if it can lead to an improvement in the conditions of the Eritrean people. The Eritrean refugee crisis has been going on for years and is very serious, as the representative Nybakk also stated. It affects several countries on the Horn of Africa, the Middle East, Europe and Norway. On the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt, we know that humiliators have been exposed to atrocities — kidnapping, abuse and killing. In fact, Eritrean relatives, including in Norway, have been forced to pay ransoms. The route over the Sinai Desert of Israel was less used last year, but new kidnappings were reported by Eritreans. Norway supports the work of the UN High Commissioner and the International Migration Organisation, IOM, along these refugee routes. The government will work to improve the conditions for people on the run and find sustainable solutions for the refugees in Sudan, Ethiopia and Kenya. As many as 300,000 Eritreans may be located in neighbouring countries, as also mentioned by the interpellant. UN, OHCHR, IOM and the Refugee Aid will continue to be our central cooperation partners to provide help. In Norway, more from Eritrea than from any other country are seeking asylum. Eritreans were the largest group of asylum seekers last year. 3,260 people, full 27 pst. by all asylum seekers, came from Eritrea. It lives together about 10,000 people with an Eritrean refugee background in our country. Most who come to Norway are young men. They're driven by a regime that doesn't have the ability to give their own youth a future they believe in. I fully agree with the inter-pellant that a coup d'état in Eritrea could destabilise the whole region. Eritrea, Sudan, South Sudan, Ethiopia, Djibouti and Somalia affect the security of each other in the form of criminal networks, trafficking in human beings, arms trafficking and the like. Terrorist organisations operate across borders and have to fight in the region. Norway has, and will continue to have, high ambitions as a donor country and supporter of poor and vulnerable countries. Norway has been committed to the Eritreans for several decades. The Eritrean geographical position and relations with neighbouring countries are further arguments to bet right here. But developing countries' own authorities must show their way and take responsibility for development. At least you should let the help get to the front. These assumptions are to a small extent present in Eritrea. We're willing to escalate the engagement if we can play a role, provided it's balanced. Eritrea has played both a constructive and a destructive role in its neighbourhoods. The expert group monitoring compliance with UN sanctions against Somalia and Eritrea indicates that Asmara is supported by al-Shabaab in Somalia. However, Asmara has also been an initiator of peace in Sudan and East Sudan, and Norway has cooperated with Asmara on this. Now we have a tense situation in the South Sudan. We hope that Eritrea will refrain from playing a negative role in the conflict. The population of Eritrea is served by other countries maintaining what is possible through dialogue with the regime. We are willing to continue a dialogue on human rights – in the framework of the UN and/or bilaterally – and to deliver concrete improvements. I have also asked Norwegian diplomats to visit Eritrea after the closure of the embassy. Adds to new visits. We will then address domestic political issues, human rights and the regional situation. Of course, Norway alone cannot prevent a possible collapse in Eritrea. This must be done in conjunction with the Eritreans, international partners and, in particular, neighbouring countries. The closure of our embassy has also made such a concrete follow-up more demanding. That is why we want to emphasise a broadest possible dialogue on Eritrea and a long-term commitment to the Eritrean people. The aim is to be a driver and to contribute to the improvement of the human rights situation. Based on this, the government will further develop its Eritrean policy, anchored in Norwegian foreign policy interests at the Horn of Africa. I thank you again for the opportunity to inform us about this and to have a discussion in the United Kingdom on an important humanitarian issue and, to a great extent, a forgotten conflict – which was also the subject of the representative – with great human suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1617	Thank you very much to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough and comprehensive answer. I think we agree that in the Horn of Africa and in the rest of the region, stability and borders are fragile. We also know that Eritrea can go quickly to a new war against Ethiopia, simply because they can then develop the growing dissatisfaction in the country. It's a regular recipe. As clearly underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it can destabilise the regional balance over a long period of time and develop into an international problem. It might be okay that we try to do something about this before that problem arises. The Foreign Minister mentioned the unrest among the military. It sounds very strange to say that, but the fact that the military turn against the president, may actually be among the things that can change the situation in Eritrea. Now, the generals seem to be pretty divided. We remember that this tension reached a preliminary peak during the coup trial last January. So the Foreign Minister said something that most people may have forgotten, that this regime is actually pushing exiles to pay taxes or taxes – or whatever you choose to call it – to the government. This has been especially the case with Eritreans in Scandinavia, not least in Sweden, where we know that people have been threatened. If they do not pay this fee – or what to call it – to the Eritrean government, family members in Eritrea will be arrested and terrorized by the regime. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned asylum seekers in Norway. Eritrea is a country where it's bad. Of course, you should never generalise or view asylum seekers as a group, but it is difficult to say no today to asylum for refugees from Eritrea. We've had such situations over the years. Now asylum seekers from Eritrea are demanding our solidarity. The growing depopulation is one of the major problems, also because it's those who have resources, like refugees. I have two questions. The Foreign Minister talked about trying to do something with the Eritreans. Is it possible for Norway to offer practical assistance to opposition groups to gather them to a meeting? Is Norway ready to negotiate again between Eritrea and Ethiopia, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1632	Norway has long had a dialogue with Eritrean authorities. The problem is that the result has been mixed, but it seems that Eritrea is trying an approach and is open to such dialogue. For the sake of the Eritrean population and, not least, for the sake of those in Norway, we should support where we can. But this is a difficult balance, and we have to use every opportunity to establish the completely unacceptable violations of human rights that happen. What the representative said, at least among the exiles in Sweden, has experienced that they are being asked to pay taxes to their country of origin, is something that is very serious and that we react to. Norway has a certain position in Eritrea, as the representative was also involved. It is important that we actively deal with political developments, in contact with Eritrean actors in Asmara and beyond. We want, for example: that the situation in Eritrea is to be discussed in the framework of the United Nations and with the Eritreans, whether in Asmara, Geneva or New York. Dialogue is not being conducted at political level, but, as I said, it continues to attract officials from Norway to Asmara and Eritrea to update the situation. If there had been a request to play a role in the dialogue between Addis Ababa and Asmara, there is of course something Norway should have considered serious. What is absolutely crucial is that it does not end in a war between these two countries. That's the last thing we need in that region. Central African Republic — The Central African Republic — is about to collapse. South Sudan is in the middle of civil war-like conditions. One is in danger of the Ugandan troops remaining in South Sudan. Sudan may also begin to deal with the fact that Riek Machar is about to enter the oil regions of South Sudan. We have the crisis in Somalia which, unfortunately, has worsened over the past few weeks. In addition, if there were to be a conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, it would be even more demanding in this region. When it comes to possible support for various civil society organisations, I have noticed the recording, but I can't say anything concrete about it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1643	I will first of all start by thanking the interpellant for the commitment and for raising an important debate here in the Chamber. The exposure to the liberation of Eritrea is something that I dare remember as a matter from childhood. I remember the referendum on independence and subsequent state formation. Since then, however, Eritrea has been a country that has been allowed to evolve in the wrong direction and is almost daunting outside the international community's floodlights. Over several years as an AUF, I had a strong commitment to a number of international projects. I was employed as an international adviser, and I was in many contexts in discussions about Africa's Horn, but it was very rare that Eritrea as a state was a theme. Yeah, we've been through a bad time in Eritrea. The country has been hit by famine several times. We've probably all come to realize that the UN Food Organisation has had to try to mobilize the international community to provide enough food on several occasions over the years. We've all seen these TV images from drought-affected areas pass our screen without possibly getting completely in touch with us which country it was talking about this time. But the interest in political development in this country, the lack of parliamentary elections, the unresolved refugee situation and all the structural problems have been negligible. Maybe it's because the situation seems so overwhelmingly hopeless. This is precisely why it is so important for this interpellation to travel, and an attempt is made to get Eritrea higher on the agenda. The human suffering in the area is already great. The interpellant said a lot about it, so I'm not going to repeat it. But in addition, this may develop into a much larger international problem — it was also the interpellant. There is a real danger of collapse in an already very unstable exposed area. I think few are able to predict – or say something reasonable about – how it will develop in that case, especially because there is no overall opposition that can take over and stabilise conditions. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to the relatively extensive Norwegian commitment that we already have on the Horn of Africa. Norway has previously played a mediator role in the area, and the interpellant directly asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs if Norway could be willing to take on such a role again. We did not get a very clear answer, but at least I got the impression that the government would consider it serious if such an enquiry were to be made. I hope it does, and that's something you'll see carefully. This could be relevant in the context of border conflicts between Eritrea and neighbouring countries, which could potentially be very devastating for the whole region. So again, thank you to the interpellant for raising the debate, and also thank you to the Foreign Minister for what I see as a serious commitment to the area and a willingness to discuss these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1660	I will also commend the interpellant who addresses this matter in Stortinget. The world is an expert on forgetting conflicts and conflict areas as soon as the rays of the press lights turn elsewhere. Now it lights up in Ukraine, a little off the map -- in something that might be called an incipient shadow -- is now Syria, at least it doesn't shine as brightly there. Nor do the spotlights reach Sudan, Somalia, Haiti or Venezuela, and not every day to the Central African Republic or to that part of Eritrea. That is why this debate is important. Eritrea gained its independence in 1993 and has had problems and challenges both before and after for many decades, as explained by the interpellant. The Eritreans are fleeing. It is assumed, as we heard, that as many as over 300,000 Eritrean citizens can be found in neighbouring countries. Those refugees, as we know, still make up Norway, and last year they were the largest group of asylum seekers here – a total of 27 pst. of those who came. In such situations, we know that it is often the young, strong and resource-rich who leave, with just the resources that such a country needs. Eritrea is a closed country, a very closed country, making it a difficult relationship both with neighbouring countries and with the world community, but it also makes the situation internal to the country arduous, because the political situation destroys both the country's economy and the possibility of normal social life. There is reason to believe that President Isaac Afewerki may have realized this, and that he is trying to improve the relationship with the outside world. It is positive that the Eritrean authorities have allowed a UN delegation to visit the country to look at the human rights situation. There are careful steps in the right direction. The responsibility to go this way is primarily Eritrean's own, but also the responsibility of the world community. The sanctions against the country are, of course, felt, unfortunately. The International Crisis Group, known as a highly professional environment, said in 2013 that there seems to be a growing dissatisfaction in Eritrea with the controlling regime and with increasing political and social differences. I believe that the interpellant is right that the international community can and should play a role in preventing further escalation of violence and problems on the Horn of Africa. The International Crisis Group also said that there should be a broad coalition of international actors involved in the problems in the area. For example, in March 2013, they proposed that the EU and the United States, together with some other countries such as Qatar and South Africa, which have a somewhat better relationship with the Eritrean ruling elite, should be able to bring about a constructive change. At least it is right and important for us in Norway to be concerned with the needs of the Eritrean people. It is a critical area of humanitarian attention. The Eritrean people need a free life, for human rights and for a peaceful existence. Then it is clear that the Eritrean people are served that the countries outside, including the Norwegian community, maintain what is possible through dialogue with the regime. It is therefore positive that the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirms that a new visit is being made from Norway, including both domestic policy issues, such as: human rights and freedom of the press, and regional conditions are being affected. Norway has done a lot in this region for many years, and we should not give up. I myself – for Save Barna – have lived two years in Addis. I know the region and know what amazing people live there. It is good that the Foreign Minister assures us that we are willing to continue a dialogue on human rights in the framework of the UN – or bilaterally – with Eritrea and a continued commitment to the Eritrean people. We should support where we can, even though Norway alone cannot prevent a possible coup d'état in Eritrea. Eritrea is like a domino on the African horn. The stability of the whole region is at stake, and the countries on the horn affect the security of each other. Let today's debate also be a signal to the Eritrean authorities about our expectations that they themselves will also take responsibility for their own development and that they will deliver concrete improvements, not least in the area of human rights. And then the rest of it's going to go better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1686	For all those who are concerned with ensuring that the world's poor and oppressed get a share in the fundamental human rights and a safe life, the challenges and the situation we see in Eritrea are a big thing. It's not a challenge where we have simple answers, and I also think the discussion is exemplary, but for our fellow people in this conflict-affected and unfree country, it's important that we – the international community – use the opportunities we have to lead developments in a better direction. It is truly worth discussing in Stortinget. Therefore, I would like to start by thanking the interpellant, the representative Nybakk, for addressing the demanding challenge, and the Foreign Minister for a good, informative and reflective answer to a difficult question. There were great expectations and hopes of democracy and development when Eritrea became an independent nation in 1993, both in the country itself and internationally. The 20 years that have passed since then have, in fact, become a disappointing story. Eritrea is characterised by poverty, illiteracy and a number of other signs of misdevelopment. Instead of progress, the country has ended up in a situation where some people call it ‘North Korea’. The regime has proved to be very authoritarian. It controls politics, the economy and the judiciary. Some political opposition is not tolerated. There are a large number of prisoners of conscience in the country's prisons. They live in poor conditions and often without any acceptable handling of their case in courts. Several thousand people flee every month from this misery and from oppression. In the unsafe and overcrowded boats that still carry desperate refugees from Africa and across to Europe, there are often many who come from just Eritrea. The country has been largely in conflict and in a warlike state. There are few friends in the outside world. I believe it is important that Norway actively participates in international cooperation in order to prevent a total coup d'état in Eritrea, with the consequences it may have for an already hard-tested population, and the destabilization it may mean for the conflict-affected region around the Horn of Africa. It is not natural to have extensive bilateral development cooperation with such a regime, but when people are desperately in need of emergency aid, we and the international community need to set up. Then we're going to support political processes to bring development into a better path. I believe that the situation in Eritrea also shows a lot of the dilemmas we have in international policy. Human rights are broken in a number of countries, and there are often many fast, simple answers that say that we can either just withdraw assistance, withdraw and totally reject or criticise the situation. But we and the international community can't just ignore people. We have a responsibility to prevent dictatorships from developing into precisely dictatorships. We also have a responsibility to help those people who live in countries that have totalitarian regimes and who live in poverty. I am therefore pleased that the government is active, and that the Foreign Minister stresses that they want to use the channels they look in towards Eritrea, maintain contact, criticise what is to be criticized, but also contribute to dialogue to improve the situation in Eritrea, and that one wants to support the international organisations, which are our main partners in helping the people of Eritrea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1699	In Norway, we can celebrate the 200th anniversary of our Constitution. We celebrate our independence, our freedom, democracy and our right to self-determination. We celebrate all that Eritrea can't celebrate. Justifiably, Eritrea has a constitution written in 1993 and ratified in 1997, but it does little to help when planned national elections are postponed indefinitely, when there is only one party to choose from, and when one has a legal system that is not politically independent. As has been said in the Chamber, Eritrea is considered one of the most totalitarian regimes, and the border conflict with Ethiopia is putting a huge damper on development. There is a demand for economic development when large parts of the labour force are still in the army, in the military, or have fled, on the run, and large parts of the population do not have enough food. Amnesty's annual human rights report gives Eritrea fluent criticism. The list of outlaws is long: political opposition party, independent and free press, organisations. On the other hand, military service is grounded, and service time can be extended indefinitely. We hear reports of boats filled to the brink of refugees who go under and fall into the Mediterranean. Multiple thousands cross the borders every month. It's an advanced network of human smugglers. These owners don't screw up, they exploit people on the weakest, and despairing relatives who live here in Norway are demanded ransom money. The contrast to what we take for giving here in Norway is great. When someone puts out on the open sea in a small pool, and it's a better alternative than being living in the home country, it tells all about what conditions these people live under. The option in Eritrea is serious, as it is underlined here, and the drawing on a resolution country is a lot. The generals have a great deal of political power, and political influence and financial resources are a big problem. The list of divers is long and extends from tens of thousands of soldiers to the President's right hand and the information minister and sportsman who jumps off under the London-OL. At the top of this comes several hundred thousand refugees. The representative Nybakk takes up the very negative conditions and features that are in Eritrea, and that in a state that is unstable, where conflicts prevail. Kjetil Tronvold, professor at the University of Oslo, with others, points to a number of dangers at the collapse in Eritrea, and terrorist groups exploit this. As they point out, the neighbouring countries are not strong enough to tolerate these shocks. For this reason, we in the Center Party are pleased that the interpellant today sees the light towards Eritrea and the conditions that are there. We also thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the additional information on the measures being taken there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1714	I would also first like to commend the interpellant Marit Nybakk for raising the question of Eritrea in the Storting, so that we get a discussion about the regime and the situation that is in Eritrea. For my own part, I also remember when Eritrea became independent in 1993, that we could read reports and see TV documentaries that presented Eritrea in many ways like Africa's hope. That's not what happened at all. It has evolved into a hard-boiled one-party government and a strong militarized society. As has been pointed out, Eritrea has, quite rightly, a 1997 constitution which requires the establishment of a nationally elected assembly, but there has never been a choice. On the contrary, it is President Isaias Afewerke who is in total control with the rest of the party, the extension of the EPLF, which is today the PFDJ, and of course the military leadership. Here, as we have pointed out, there are no non-governmental organisations. There are no independent media. It's such a oppression that the reports also say that people put restrictions on themselves in private conversations of fear of being persecuted. There is no legal certainty here. You face the arbitrary imprisonment of anyone who is suspected of being against the regime. Torture is also reported to be common. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees in 2012 estimated that there were between 5,000 and 10,000 political prisoners in Eritrea. And as others have pointed out, it is a major refugee problem. Already today, there are up to 3,000 refugees each month from Eritrea. They do it with considerable danger to their own safety. If you're under 50 years old in Eritrea, it's hard to get a permit to leave, and those who leave in many ways risk their lives when they leave the country. Many have also been involved in the protection system that holds most women and men in a virtually permanent military service. This is a oppressive regime. Just comparing it with North Korea shows how serious the situation is for the Eritreans. Then I am glad that the Foreign Minister addresses the whole situation of Eritreans who are also refugees. Clearly, the situation on the Sinai Peninsula, where refugees are now being held in captivity and subjected to extortion and torture, must be taken seriously. Now this does not just apply to Eritreans, but this must be taken seriously, as it must be done with the situation in southern Europe with refugees coming from North Africa into Europe. Lampedusa has become a negative symbol, of which Europe and Norway are part. Europe and Norway need to be able to address and deal with the situation better than what they are doing today. It also shows how closely developments in our own country are linked to the international situation when Eritreans are the largest asylum group in Norway today. Many have pointed out that the Eritrean State is persecuting Eritreans to the countries to which they are fleeing. According to Freedom House, all Eritreans abroad are subject to a 2 pst tax. I do not know if this is something the Norwegian State can do about, but it is clear that this is also an important part of the financial basis of the Eritrea regime. What's hard is, what are we doing? What can Norway do? I have no good advice except that the Foreign Minister must use the full diplomatic competence of Norway, both to exert pressure and influence where possible, to influence the African Union, within the UN, to influence the situation. What's important to emphasize is that this is not just about avoiding a coup d'état with the implications it has for the whole region, but it's just as much about being able to break up a hard regime for and on behalf of the people and all the Eritreans who live in Eritrea today, so that they can have a slightly greater freedom, and then we can get Eritrea into one direction, so that they will eventually get a basic law that is being observed, and that we in Eritrea too will be able to see a democratic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1731	I would like to thank you for a very good debate with a seriousity that I think is very important when talking about a problem area that Eritrea is. I will first comment on some of the things that have been said about the refugee situation, and add that as far as I understand now, at least after what I learned yesterday, Sudan has now blocked the borders in the east of refugees. They simply don't take in any more Eritreans. We can imagine the desperation that will then be there with these Muslims in the north. The paradox, as I guess also mentioned in my first post, is that the archenemy Ethiopia is the country that is now receiving refugees from Eritrea. As others have noted, the death in the Mediterranean is largely edifying. The representative of Elvesuen also mentioned what is happening on the Sinai Peninsula. Lampedusa also came to most of the Eritreans. Maybe it didn't say that in all the headlines. No matter where they were from, this was a gigantic tragedy that we hope will not happen again. The international community has no overall strategy or crisis plan for Eritrea if the regime breaks down. It is important, I think, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Government are a driver of the United Nations system to focus more strongly on developments in Eritrea and not least on the flow of refugees. What are you going to do with it? The UN refugee organisation, UNHCR, is strongly involved, but they are not doing this alone, as the situation is. Sylvi Graham made a very good suggestion that you should get some troika or four-cloves or whatever it might be – the EU, the United States plus Qatar and others in the region that are close to Eritrea – and try to negotiate with the regime, but also between the regime and the opposition. There is no overall opposition, there are several that have been mentioned here, among others. Marianne Marthinsen. But such a group of countries may also be able to talk to the opposition and make the opposition cooperate and perhaps influence the regime to settle down with the opposition. Otherwise, I will join some of the last of the Elvesu saying that Norway must use all the diplomatic skills we have. It is my final appeal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, also in view of possibly obtaining such a group of countries that can look at the situation in Eritrea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1745	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for a very good and insightful discussion with some concrete input, which I shall certainly take with me in the further work. In terms of impact in the United Nations context, in our United Nations ambassador in New York, we have one of the more knowledgeable in the situation in Eritrea, and we have a strong commitment. We also follow up on the issue of putting pressure on Eritrean authorities in relation to freedom of expression and access for humanitarian workers. Today, fewer and fewer organisations actually have access — at least outside Asmara. For large parts of the country, we do not have a full picture of the humanitarian situation. In the case of Eritrean refugees, we are working closely with UNHCR, High Commissioner for Refugees. The regime is in a very difficult situation. They are the ones who will think that this will lead to a change of regime, because there are so many powerful forces in Eritrea, of course, that have the humanitarian crisis very close at hand. When some numbers show that away from 60 pst. by the people are undernourished, it says something about what we're facing. So what we want to do is follow up the situation in Eritrea from the Embassy in Khartoum in Sudan. It's the Khartoum Embassy that is now side-accredited to Asmara, after we shut down the embassy. However, through the African Union and our Embassy in Addis Ababa, together with the United Nations Delegation in New York and from Khartoum, we will also follow up on possible opportunities for Norway to participate in and strengthen the dialogue in the region. Now it is such that you have stepped down the Norwegian aid to Eritrea. It's also the result of shutting down the embassy, and not least because of the situation attached to the human rights there. But I guess I have the support of the Stortinge to make humanitarian contributions if that's the case, because the humanitarian situation is so serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1758	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1774	The situation in Iran is serious and could certainly have been the subject of a separate debate here today. Just since New Year's, there are 130 regime critics hanging in Iran, so evolution is not going in the right direction, it's going in the wrong direction. Today, it is the precarious security situation of Iranian dissidents who are in refugee camps in Iraq, I want to discuss with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. On 1 September 2013, there was a massacre in Camp Ashraf. About 120 heavily armed and uniformed men carried out a coordinated military attack. 52 people, including several women, were regularly executed with firearms and explosives. Seven were taken hostage, six women and one man, and these are still not released. It's unclear where they are. The people who were killed were under international protection. They had the status of refugees and asylum seekers. They were entitled to protection under the 4. Geneva Convention. The fact that these people – all were dissidents who had fled the Iranian regime – did not get the security they claim is an international responsibility. The 52 people who were killed — executed — were more than half the people who lived in that camp. There were only about 100 people left in Camp Ashraf. Most of the approximately 3,000 who lived there had been moved, in part forced, to Camp Liberty in Baghdad. All of these are members of the People’s Mojahedin Organization of Iran opposition group. We know that membership of that opposition group is prohibited by law in Iran, and those who return to the country are at risk of both torture and execution. It's a maximum real threat. The 100 remaining in Camp Ashraf were also to be transferred to Camp Liberty, but they had been allowed to stay for a while, among others. to resolve some practical questions. Until 2009, it was the United States that was responsible for security in Camp Ashraf. It was transferred to Iraqi authorities that year, in agreement with the UN. This means that the Iraqi authorities are obliged to ensure that the camp is safe. Since 2009, a number of attacks have occurred, both at Camp Ashraf and at Camp Liberty after it was created. The tragedy here is that the attack on 1 September did not come as lightning from the clear sky. It merges into a series of attacks, although this has had the most tragic outcome. That is why it was predictable, and it is easy to say afterwards that it should have been prevented. Nor was there any warning that this could happen. Two of the previous attacks have been confirmed by Iraqi security forces, and there are also a number of indistincts pointing to the fact that Iraqi authorities themselves were involved in the mass killing and that it occurred in agreement with the Iranian regime with the direct involvement of the Iranian Revolution Guard. An independent review has not taken place. The silence after the massacre has been deafening. There has been a striking lack of reactions from the international community and little commitment to ensuring the security of those who are now in Camp Liberty. On 26 December, Camp Liberty was also attacked, among others. with rockets. Then there were four dead and at least 70 injured. The Al-Mukhtar Army, an Iraqi Shia Muslim military group, has taken responsibility for that attack. Recently, several of them killed secretly buried without family having any opportunity to say goodbye. You can only speculate about the reason why this happened, but at least it's close to believing that there's someone who doesn't want the truth about how these killings were done and who was behind them to come into the light. The international community has a clear commitment to provide security for the more than 3000 Iranian dissidents currently in refugee camps in Iraq. We have a responsibility to bring the seven hostages to justice, and those behind the attacks are held accountable. It cannot be left to the Iraqi authorities to investigate what happened in Camp Ashraf, the UN must carry out an independent investigation and ensure that the case is brought before an international court. And it's urgent to get proof, it's urgent to get the responsible ones clearly informed that the international community does not tolerate such crimes that were committed in Camp Ashraf on 1 September. If those behind it are not held responsible, the inhabitants of Camp Liberty will be completely defenceless even in months and years to come. Yesterday, there was an Iran seminar at the Nobel Institute. There is also an Iran seminar in this city today. There spoke President of the National Council of Resistance of Iran, Maryam Rajavi. She asked the Norwegian authorities to step in for an international investigation of the 1 September massacre in Camp Ashraf. We know that Iraq was directly involved; the UN has condemned the massacre, but has not done anything else; I came here to get the Norwegian government to break the silence, she said, because Norway has a strong tradition of fighting for human rights, she continued. I should like to hear the Foreign Minister's response to that call from Maryam Rajavi. As long as the dissidents stay in Camp Liberty, the international community is responsible for their security. The responsibility of the international community has not been able to fulfil. Pressures need to be placed on Iraqi authorities — of course — so that the necessary physical security measures are implemented. But when it feels that the threat comes from the authorities themselves, it may not be enough. Several have called for a permanent UN presence, or alternatively to relocate the camp, or to ensure that these 3,000 dissidents are accommodated elsewhere. The situation of these dissidents is now so precarious that it has led to a massive campaign by Iranians in exile across Europe, including Norway. Many representatives of this house have met representatives of the Iranian exile environment during the past few weeks and have seen cruel images of people who have been executed while they were under international protection. Those pictures speak their clear language. The same questions that I raise in the main hall today are now being discussed in parliaments in a number of countries. It is my hope that the commitment that is now being shown, and all the political work that is being put down to put the focus on the situation of the people who are in Camp Liberty right now, will lead to the awakening of the international community, and that we take responsibility for the security of these people. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: Will the government take an initiative towards the UN to ensure that the international community follows up its responsibilities under the 4. The Geneva Convention and the security of Iranian dissidents in Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1802	The government shares the humanitarian concern about the security and living conditions of the remaining residents of Camp Liberty in Iraq, as the representative of Marthinsen raised. There seems to be a broad political consensus that there is a group that is entitled to protection and help. This is also the position of the United Nations, and Norway has supported the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, in their efforts to settle residents from the camp in third countries. Compared with other western countries, Norway has received a relatively large number of residents from the camp. Let me say a little bit about the background of this situation. The Iranian opposition movement National Council of Resistance with its armed branch Mojahedin-e-Khalq established itself in Camp Ashraf following an invitation from Saddam Hussein during the war against Iran. After the invasion of Iraq in 2003, the Americans disarmed the inhabitants of the camp. Iraq's People's elected government decided in the autumn of 2011 to dissolve Camp Ashraf. The decision was made, among other things: justified by provisions of the Constitution of Iraq, which contain a prohibition of activities involving interference with the internal affairs of other countries. It is also important to remember in this context how extremely difficult the situation in Iraq is for everyone living in that country. Ten years after the US invasion, the security situation in Iraq is very difficult. Several hundred people are killed every month in a terrorist attack. The UN reports that 7,500 people were killed in Iraq in 2013. The number of wounded and lemming cities has doubled. Extensive use of explosives in congested areas constitutes the bulk of armed violence. The Syria crisis contributes to the deterioration of the situation and Iraqi authorities are struggling to control their own territory. Camp Liberty and Camp Ashraf have been attacked several times in the last year. Norway has condemned these attacks and has stressed the responsibility of Iraqi authorities for security. Iraqi authorities shall have notified the United Nations that they have introduced several new security measures to prevent similar attacks. Like the previous government, we have asked Iraqi authorities to implement security measures and provide medical assistance to those who need it. We support the UN in urging Iraqi authorities to launch a full investigation of what has actually happened to the tragic events, where residents of Camp Ashraf and Camp Liberty have been attacked and many killed in the last year, as the representative Marthinsen also said. Following the attack on Camp Ashraf in September 2013, the remaining inhabitants of Camp Ashraf were transferred to Camp Liberty, where UNHCR, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, assesses possible resettlement in third countries. The UNHCR process is now being satisfactorily implemented. The National Council of Resistance and Mojahedin-e-Khalq, on their side, must cooperate with the UNHCR, for example by: to allow residents residing in third countries to actually leave Camp Liberty. The UN has an important role to play and has been very active in trying to help resolve the situation in Camp Ashraf, and now in Camp Liberty. The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq, UNAMI, has been in close contact with the management of the National Council of Resistance, MEK and Iraqi authorities for several years. United Nations representatives have taken several initiatives to resolve the conflict and to help make it less violent. UNAMI has, for example: encouraged the authorities to protect the camp with external watchkeeping, concrete elements and shelters. The agreement concluded between UNAMI and Iraqi authorities to transfer all campers from Ashraf to Liberty for further handling of UNHCR is a good measure. This Agreement provides for an obligation on the part of the Iraqi authorities to act in a responsible and humane manner against the residents. The UN involvement in this matter has been an important contribution to avoid further escalation. The UN has a clear presence in Camp Liberty by both UNAMI observers and UNHCR personnel. UNHCR has taken action to conduct personal interviews with all those in Liberty who have applied for refugee status. So far has approx. 2400 campers were interviewed for refugee status clearance. The UN at UNAMI and UNHCR are also working to find third countries that are willing to accept the campers. This is also an extensive work. Norway will support the UN and encourage them to continue their work and presence, despite the fact that this has proved to be a difficult and demanding task. Norway has raised the question repeatedly with UNHCR in Iraq and UNAMI. Norway has expressed concerns about the events in Camp Ashraf and Camp Liberty over the past few years and the generally difficult living conditions of campers. From the Norwegian side, we have been primarily concerned with the humanitarian situation of those living in the camps in 2008. The interpellant assumes in the interpellant that persons residing in the camps are entitled to protection after the 4. The Geneva Convention of 1949, which regulates issues related to the protection of civilians in armed conflict, including, inter alia, in occupied areas. These rules do not apply — and this has also been established in the past — in the current situation in Iraq, as there is no longer an occupation situation. On the other hand, we have stressed to the Iraqi authorities that, under international human rights, they are responsible for the security of the inhabitants. In accordance with the agreement between Iraq and the United Nations in December 2011, Iraq retains the primary responsibility for the security of its inhabitants, which also results from applicable human rights standards. The UNHCR assesses both the status of asylum seekers and assistance for resettlement. Although it is no longer natural to assess the situation from the point of view of 4. Geneva Convention, there is no doubt that the security of its inhabitants must be respected, and Iraq must take the necessary measures to prevent attacks against them or to expose them to a risk of persecution that is contrary to international law. In this context, the EU has also taken action to appoint a special adviser for EU follow-up assistance, and the UN Secretary-General has appointed an Assistant Secretary-General for the Resettlement of Campers. In view of this, Norway will continue to support the ongoing UN efforts to liquidate Camp Liberty in a way that safeguards the security and rights of its residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1830	I would like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for the answer, which was thorough and good. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs shows that he takes this question seriously. I would also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the security situation is, of course, serious for everyone in Iraq. It's a very demanding situation. Then, of course, we could have had our own debate on how it has been and who is responsible for it. But the Foreign Minister shows at least that he realizes that the situation is precarious for the group of people we are talking about here today, and that these people are living in an unprotected life as long as security is left to Iraqi authorities, without the international community taking the necessary responsibility. I am pleased that the minister says Norway will continue to support the UN's efforts to properly liquidate Camp Liberty. But I also specifically asked about the security situation of these people, as long as they are in Camp Liberty, is a matter that the Foreign Minister will address with the UN – whether he will take a direct initiative to ensure that the security situation is resolved also in the short term, because winding up this camp is likely to take time. Of course, it's important to encourage the Iraqis, as was mentioned here, to ensure better physical security. But as I said in my main post, as long as the threat comes from within, that the authorities themselves pose a threat, the question of a heavier UN presence, as the Iranian exile community itself has called for, will also be relevant. The same will be true of a relocalisation. So it's true that Norway has accepted several of those who have been in charge in Camp Ashraf and Camp Liberty. There are still several thousand remaining there, and the UN is making a major effort to identify the existence of third countries that are willing to accept. Therefore, it is also natural to ask whether the government sees it as appropriate to further contribute by accepting several of these. So I would like to repeat that it is urgent to carry out this independent investigation of what actually happened in Camp Ashraf. When victims are buried in secret in an unknown place, it is very difficult to see any other motivation for it than to destroy evidence. We need to know who carried out the order that the massacre be carried out, and who was involved in planning and implementing the attack. Norway supports the requirement for an investigation. But how are we going to follow up on the fact that the requirement of scrutiny is actually being implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1845	As I also stated in my speech: Iraq must take the necessary measures to prevent attacks on those who are exposed to a risk of international criminal prosecution. However, in this context, the EU has also taken action in appointing a special adviser for EU follow-up assistance, and the UN Secretary-General has appointed an Assistant Secretary-General to work on the resettlement of campers. Norway will also actively continue to support the ongoing UN efforts to liquidate Camp Liberty in a way that safeguards the security and rights of its residents, and we will continue to address the situation of its residents. Of course, we will continue to assess the situation of asylum seekers from this camp.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1850	Let me first thank the interpellant for presenting this important interpellation. It's also interesting that the interpellation is held while Maryam Rajavi is in Oslo. She's been in the lodge before today. Then I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for having gone so far into this matter and for his willingness to contribute to the proper liquidation of Camp Liberty. But it assumes that these refugees have a place to go. This started in the spring of 2003 – not the refugee camp, but the harassment. Then the United States invaded Iraq and removed Saddam Hussein's regime. The Americans then promised to ensure the protection of the several thousand Iranian refugees who were in southern Iraq, near Baghdad. This was important because the Shia Muslims in the area have always been ally with the presidency of Tehran. However, in the years following 2003, the refugees in Camp Ashraf and Camp Liberty have repeatedly been subjected to harassment, looting and attacks by local Shia militias, among others. from the Al Mukhtar Army. As has been said here, in December 2011, the United Nations and the Iraqi government agreed that 3,400 refugees should be moved from Camp Ashraf northeast of Baghdad to Camp Liberty. The move was completed in September 2012, but 100 people were allowed to remain to clean up. On 1 September 2013, 52 of these were murdered by a Shia Muslim militia. Camp Liberty was attacked no later than December 26, 2013 and more people lost their lives. It goes without saying that this is unsustainable. We are talking about refugees with refugee status under the protection of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Both the UN High Commissioner, that is UNHCR, and Amnesty are now asking the world community to intervene and ensure the protection of the Iranian refugees in Iraq. Several international church leaders, parliamentarians and political leaders have asked Iraq's government to secure the refugee camps. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the U.S. Senate, Robert Menendez, requests that the refugees be moved out of Iraq and given asylum or refugee status in Europe and the United States. After the 2003 invasion, Camp Ashraf was protected by the US forces in Iraq, the USF. But in June 2009, the Iraqi government took over the responsibility. After that, the camp and refugees have been harassed and pressured to leave Iraq, for that is probably the motivation for harassment. But that means they have a place to go. Many of the refugees have their origins in Iranian resistance movements. Everyone understands that they cannot be repatriated, but Iraq is probably under pressure from the regime in Iran. It is important that the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs now says that Norway will contribute to the proper resolution of these camps and that a place is found to communicate these refugees to. There will be talk of asylum seekers' status in several countries in Europe, and more people will have to take responsibility. Thus, within Iran, the regime has been able to continue its repression of fundamental human rights, in the wake of the international debate on its nuclear programme. Only in January this year, 68 people were executed in Iran. They are executed for everything from murder to being sentenced to practice homophilis. Amnesty International published on 25 November 2013 a long list of political prisoners and human rights activists in Iranian prisons. There are lawyers with 13-year-old judges for spreading propaganda against the system, there are journalists, there are trade union representatives sitting with judges of up to six years for the same thing. We know that women are systematically discriminated against, that women's testimonies count 50 pst. by men in legal proceedings. We know about the repression of religious minorities, not least Sunni Muslims, as well as Christians, and we know about the extreme repression of Kurds and baluchers in Iran. There are many Iranian refugees around the world, including in Norway. But those who now need our support are the refugees in southern Iraq. I therefore hope that the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs will succeed in helping to get these out of Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1867	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for putting the topic on the agenda, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good and satisfying response. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so clear in stressing that Norway is behind the work of the UN and is refraining from acts of violence and attacks on refugee camps in Iraq, and of course we also share the concern about the humanitarian situation. During both the previous and the current government, Norway has followed the conditions in Camp Liberty and the depleted Camp Ashraf. There have been repeated reactions from the Norwegian authorities when violence has been reported against and in the camps. There is also reason to look at other conflicts in general within Iraq and the degree of distrust that exists between Iraqi authorities and the opposition. Looking at developments in Iraq's neighbourhood, and especially in Syria, there is cause for concern about spin-off effects. All good forces in Iraq therefore need to act and interact and act responsibly to avoid undesirable scenarios. Reports on the humanitarian situation in the Iraq region and the other serious incidents are of little concern. They are well documented through the few media that have access, and through the UN, UNHCR. Examples of Camp Liberty include a weakening of the protection of the camps, an obstacle to the entry of food and emergency equipment, and the prevention of evacuation to third countries. At the same time, it has been argued that the safety of the camps is primarily the responsibility of the Iraqi authorities. The Iraqi government has accepted full responsibility for the security of the refugees from the relocation from Camp Ashraf and through the stay in Camp Liberty. The agreement also requires that no one be compulsorily returned to Iran or residing in third countries against their will. It is therefore right that the government continues to have as its strategy the support of the UN work in the area, which involves political, social and humanitarian assistance through the UN Assistance Mission for Iraq, UNAMI. The role of UNAMI in this process is to monitor human rights and the humanitarian situation through relocation and provide a 24-hour surveillance in Camp Liberty. There is little doubt that it has been very demanding for UNAMI to ensure that the transfer to Camp Liberty took place without violence, and the security of the camp, for the rest. Nevertheless, UNHCR is working to get countries to accept refugees, and Norway has, as it was said, accepted some of them. Still, it's hard. Messages may indicate, for example: is due to the active efforts of Iraqi authorities to prevent countries in the region from accepting refugees from Camp Liberty. Nor is there any doubt that this is a very demanding mission for the United Nations, and I also perceive that the role of the United Nations has been discussed. The UN is working under difficult conditions in Iraq. The task is to ensure dialogue between the parties, provide assistance to rebuild and develop the country after many years of war and meet the needs there, both humanitarianly and otherwise. The UN has been clear and will also have to take into account the situation in Camp Liberty in the future, and not allow similar abuses to those we have seen, among other things. in Camp Ashraf. Much remains before you can say that the situation for those who live in Camp Liberty is acceptable. Therefore, we must continue to support the role of the UN in this matter and encourage Iraqi authorities to prevent, investigate and respond to human rights violations and attacks on Camp Liberty, and also to support the requirement of scrutiny. Finally, as was said in the previous interpellation debate: in a newsprint marked by an abundance of regional crises and conflicts with some great degree of brutality, humanitarian distress, persecution and other violations of human rights, it is often very difficult to keep the searchlight on conflicts that deserve it in isolation. Continuity of international attention is therefore necessary. In this way, this interpellation is a commendable initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1890	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant, Marianne Marthinsen, for bringing up this matter and the Foreign Minister for his thorough answers, and for sharing the concerns of the Iranian political refugees who are currently in Camp Liberty in Iraq. What we're discussing is an exposed group of refugees' need for protection, after they have been subjected to repeated attacks that have killed and wounded many. It is important to improve the security of Camp Liberty as long as Camp Liberty is in operation. I notice that the Foreign Minister is also of that opinion. Today, 26 years ago, members of the democratic opposition movement in Iran became political refugees in Iraq. When the U.S. attacked Iraq in 2003, they took control of Camp Ashraf, and there was an investigation of all the approximately 3,400 refugees found in the camp. The background to this was Iran's claim that they were terrorists. The interview process took 16 months. After he finished, he got all the status of UN refugees during the 4th. Geneva Convention. Practically, it was the United States that stood for this. The United States took responsibility for their security from 2003 to 2009 and issued personal guarantees to each of them. In recent years, they have not received the protection they claim. From 2009 until now, three massacres have been carried out in Camp Ashraf – the first in July 2009, the second in April 2011 and the second in September 2013, when 52 were killed. This is a challenge for the world community. Also we, Norway, and other Nordic countries have to take responsibility for fighting for these people to be given the protection that they are entitled to. During 2012, most of the refugees were transferred to Camp Liberty, just at the airport in Baghdad. Neither are they safe. There have been four rocket attacks against Camp Liberty. Then the Foreign Minister has answered very well the questions that the interpellant had, and that I will also challenge the Minister. But in conclusion, I would like to point out that it is important that we get an international investigation of what happened in the various military attacks on Camp Ashraf and Camp Liberty, especially the massacre in Camp Ashraf on 1 September last year. Such research cannot be carried out by the Iraqi government alone. She has already failed in her responsibility to protect these refugees. This means that the rest of the world society must take its responsibility to contribute to the postponement of refugees with the protection they require. I want to encourage the government to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1903	Thank you to the representative, Mr Marthinsen, who is addressing a very important topic. The events to which the representative refers are both frail and unacceptable. Marthinsen points to a number of cases in which exiliranaries in Iraq have been subjected to totally unacceptable violations of human rights. The security of Iranian dissidents in Iraq is not well enough. The situation is with even spaces in the media. International organisations express concern and require action. The relatives of Norway tell us that they are afraid of their relatives and friends. A Norwegian-Iranian game told in the Evening Post about its own father, who was last seen in Camp Ashraf. When the U.S. was in charge of the camp, they could have telephone contact. After Iraq assumed responsibility, all communication with the outside world was broken, he told. One can only think of the concern and fear that one has when one does not even know what is happening. The events known through the media are not designed to mitigate their concern. In September 2013, 52 Iranian dissidents were brutally killed in Camp Ashraf. Those who observed this, told of terrible scenes: Several victims were arrested, looked at handcuffs and then executed directly. In addition to the 52 killed, 7 are abducted. Amnesty and others fear that they risk both torture and forced return to Iran. As the interpellant refers to, they're still not fit, and there's good reason to be concerned. Humans in Camp Liberty have also been attacked. This camp houses about 3,000 exilators, who on several occasions have been subjected to abuse, under protection. But their salvation is that the world community looks at them and that the world community intervenes. Organisations such as UNHCR and Amnesty have strongly condemned the attack and express concern for those still in the camp. It also has Norwegian powers of government, which we have heard in the Chamber today. The authorities must investigate the perpetrators and hold them accountable. There must be an independent investigation, and one must put pressure on the authorities via the UN. It's decisive that a get to liquidate Camp Liberty in a way that secures those who are there. It is good that the Foreign Minister takes this seriously and says that Norway will help one through the UN to take these matters seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1920	I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it's been a good debate, and it signals, of course, that it's a co-conspirator who condemns the attacks, both at Camp Ashraf and at Camp Liberty, and who stands behind the UN's work to bring about a liquidation of Camp Liberty and a lasting solution for the people who live there today. The representative Nybakk pointed out that the UNHCR is now asking the international community to intervene and secure the people of Camp Liberty, and they are doing so because the situation is becoming increasingly precarious. The representative of Aarhus Byrknes said there have been four rocket attacks against Camp Liberty just lately. The debate has raised several issues. One of them is how we want to secure them in the short term. The 3,000 people in Camp Liberty. It is both about pressure on Iraqi authorities to improve physical security and also about the possibility of greater international presence. It is, of course, greatly impaired confidence in both the ability and the will of Iraqi authorities to protect these people among the Iranians who are in the camp. Another question is how can we contribute to the release of the seven hostages, six women and one man, who have been hostages since 1 September 2013. The third question concerns how Norway can contribute to a rapid, independent investigation of the attack on Camp Ashraf. I hope, in fact, that the government is offensive and not only insists on joining the UN's condemnation, but takes concrete action to help ensure that the camp can be closed – that means that third countries have to take responsibility – and not least ensure that progress is made, that an independent audit is actually carried out. I am very pleased that representatives from several parties through the debate have emphasised that this is absolutely necessary to get in place. It's urgent. Evidence is being destroyed. This work must start, and I hope it is a signal that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is taking with him from this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1941	There seems to be a broad political consensus in Norway that the group we are discussing today is entitled to protection and that there is a great humanitarian need. The government shares the humanitarian concern – and the need for security. We cannot exempt Iraq, because Iraq is responsible for protecting citizens in its territory and for enforcing human rights. We have repeatedly addressed this, and we will continue to repeat it, both bilaterally towards Iraq and also in the context of the United Nations. Iraq is not an occupied area, as I said at the outset, nor in war. It is therefore not a situation where the fourth Geneva Convention applies. This has also been the policy of the former government, and that is the position of this government. This is more a legal question than politics. This is also the position of the United Nations, which has been expressed a number of times, not least by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, António Guterres, who has called upon Iraq to take responsibility for security. Norway has supported the UNHCR’s efforts to settle residents from the camp in third countries. Norway has, as I said, received a relatively large number of residents from the camp in relation to other western countries. I take with me the political signals that have come from the Storting today. I would also like, when I have political talks in the region, and also with the UN, to recall the totally unacceptable humanitarian situation in this refugee camp, but also the need to find solutions for these people who live under great uncertainty and who have seen grotesque acts in the camp and in their vicinity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1954	Case No. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1968	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines in response to contributions from the main speakers of the parties and members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e1977	First of all, I want to thank the Committee for a good cooperation. Thanks also to the Council of State for good answers to good questions along the way in the same process. This is a proposition that was first promoted by the Stoltenberg government on 4 October last year. It was maintained by the Solberg government now in the late harvest. We held a hearing in Stortinget on 9 January, and the committee received a number of recordings. There is now a unanimous committee in a very important pension case, and I focus on a broad majority of issues relating to the follow-up to the pension agreement on the Stortinget. It is my ambition as committee chairman that it will continue in the future. The proposal proposes that a new disability pension should be a net scheme. This means that the disability pension is to be calculated as an independent benefit, and the calculation shall not be related to the calculation of the old-age pension in the occupational pension scheme or to the calculation of disability benefit in the social security system. The reasons for the proposal include, inter alia: that this should provide a simpler regulatory framework. This has received broad support from both the employer and the employee in the consultation process. It helps to remove the coordination rules and make them more comprehensible to beneficiaries. The Committee has also noted with interest that, in the consultation process, there has been a willingness to ensure that the scheme can become a pure insurance scheme in the future. It has been said in various ways by both the employees’ side, the employer’s side and the financial industry that they can be positive under given conditions and if there is a more thorough assessment. Here the Committee meets an appropriate case for Stortinget. The Committee assumes that the government will return to the Storting with an investigation into the assessment of common arrangements between the private and public sectors based on an insurance scheme, and not just one or the other model. The Committee is also pleased that the government proposes the introduction of a formal distinction between the temporary and permanent disability pension. It's a necessary cleanup. It is also important that common disease concepts are used in the various pension schemes. It is important to ensure equal rights and to ensure that the concepts are scientifically based and generally recognised in medical practice. In view of this, the Committee has supported the inclusion of a provision on the basis of which the concept of public health is based in all statutory public occupational pension schemes. Another change that the Stortinget is today invited to adopt is that, in a new state of dissatisfaction, it has been decided that if the labour effort escalates to more than 80 pst, the income will fall away. the income before disability. The Committee considers that there should also be a lower limit in the public sector on the amount of loss of income to be covered by occupational pensions, and thus also a lower limit on disability. The Committee also believes that this would be an administrative simplification – and supports the proposal. There has been a discussion within the Committee on various comments. Among other things, the majority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, believe that the proposal imposes very high levels of compensation in public service pension schemes, in some cases above 100 pst. The coordination rules are designed in such a way that not all benefits from public interest are deducted by coordination. This means that everyone with full service time will be paid more than 66 pst. of previous earnings in the total invalidity pension and that the average of this group has a compensation rate of approximately 73 pst. The Government has said in the Sundvolden Declaration that it will go through today's welfare arrangements to ensure that it pays to work and continue the work line. The majority say in the Committee’s position that we assume that such a review will also include an assessment of the levels of compensation in the overall legislation on disability. There was also a discussion in the Committee, in an annotated form, of the child supplement. There's a constraint of 6 G, which is a tightening. At the same time, we get a different tightening by the fact that the total child supplement is not given for more than three children, but there is no thank you today. In the government platform, the government has said that in order to review today’s welfare systems, the children’s supplement should also be evaluated. We have thus submitted a separate remark on the matter. Otherwise, the Committee is very concerned about the working line and that solutions are put in place to make it easier to combine disability benefits and future labour income. On this basis, the Committee supports the proposal submitted to us by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2011	The rapporteur has explained quite well on this matter about a new disability pension scheme in the public occupational pension schemes, in particular the statutory ones – and it may be an important clarification to bring with it. As the rapporteur said, the case was in its time promoted by the Stoltenberg II administration, and was also recommended by the new government, so it is a unanimous committee that has delivered a position on the matter. I am therefore not going to spend time repeating what the rapporteur has already said – just attach a few brief comments to the comments where we are not fully in agreement. I said that it is an important clarification that this concerns the statutory occupational pensions, and we can all believe that there is an advantage to similar schemes across the public sector, but with regard to the other public sector schemes – which are not covered by the statutory – they are tariff-fixed. We have allowed ourselves to point that out, because that means that we do not have full freedom of action in the future arrangements within what is an area for negotiations between employers and employees. The working party has also taken an additional round during the committee discussion on the level of compensation in the new schemes – the basis on which it has been calculated – because it was input from all the employees’ organisations during our consultation. The organisations also had some proposals for changes that we have asked for cost estimates. We also asked for comments on input that we have received about changes to the 80 pst. rule, because different combinations of income from private and public employers could in some cases make payments for loss of income below 20 pst., while those with loss of income above 20 pst. actually could get zero payout. I stress that this applies from the public occupational pension schemes. Now the answer to the questions from the government council is at the time of the vote, and the answer shows that the questions we have raised are questions that have been assessed. It's concluded that there's total income that should be taken into account, and we're joining it. An important point that I would like to make specifically is that in the statutory and tariff arrangements there is a different limitation period for making claims, and it can be quite significant. It's like this today, and it's going to be like this in the future. So far, there has been a problem in the fact that people who work in the same workplace, but who are covered by two different types of public occupational pension schemes, may be quite different in applying for the rights they actually have. Some have a much longer limitation period than others. So far, it has been solved in a rather modest way through the practice of the State pension fund. Then we have received feedback that the State pension fund has notified a more stringent practice from 2015, when the new statutory schemes enter into force. The Workers' Party is very pleased that the Council of State has clarified that no change in practice has been envisaged as regards the exceptions contained in the State pension fund from the limitation requirement, so that practices continue as they do today. That's why we're calm. The employees’ organisations have also declined from 70 years to 67 years of service included. We support the government's proposal, but we have noticed that, at least for the time being, disability pensioners are partially shielded from living age adjustment. We hope that it continues, and that the majority chooses not to cut the disability pension, which has been announced at that point. Finally, as the rapporteur was also concerned: for some income groups, there are very high levels of compensation — yes. However, the working party is not as concerned as the majority, because this applies to people with very low incomes – so low that neither the wage you had before nor the pension is hardly attractive. At least that's not what will prevent people from going back to work. It's worth working, but we're not there that we're going to get rid of the children's supplement. In addition, children’s supplements are not lifelong performance, so we are not equally concerned about it and do not want changes to be made in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2030	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2033	Now the representative from the Workers' Party was at the end of his article about what I am going to address. On page 28 of Prop. 202 L for 2012–2013, Figure 4.2, shows that the current compensation rates for disability benefit are up to as much as 150 pst. This is now being adjusted down, but still, as the majority of the committee points out, very high levels of compensation. The minority try – as I see it – to minimize this high level of compensation, with only a few people who also have very low levels of compensation. I wonder a little bit: where is the logic that someone who stops working will get more money than if he had still been in work? Then I also wonder if the Workers' Party believes this is compatible with the line of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2042	As I said in my post, or as I indicated at least, if such high levels of compensation had been continuous in the system, there would have been something wrong with the system. You have to try to balance, because it's just a few, and it's for those with low incomes. You have to try to balance it so that you also get a transparent system that it is possible to understand without having to go to a lot of technical adjustments to make it exactly equal to the compensation rate for everyone. As I said, we're not very concerned when neither the salary nor the pension you get in the future is something very much to cry out for -- that's what prevents people from getting back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2051	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2054	In this case of a new disability pension scheme, there is a broad political majority who actually agree on most things. It is only in a few points that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have found it necessary to write their own comments. The case follows up the pension agreement, on which the Progress Party was not. The Progress Party was the only party in the Storting against the introduction of a new age pension in the population. The progress party didn't want to cut earned rights for most people. The reform is justified by the need to reduce expenditure levels because the number of pensioners is rising sharply in the future, and that health and care expenditure will also increase strongly. Since the Progress Party went against the pension agreement, it has not necessarily been given that we should be on the majority's side in matters that follow up the conciliation. However, recent developments, with an increasing number of pensioners and people leaving the labour market and going into permanent disadvantages, are worrying. At the same time, I would like to stress that people who are unable to participate fully or partially in the labour market because of sickness, injury or suffering, of course, should be provided with a social income insurance system that makes it possible to have a decent life. It's just such an income hedge, Prop. 202 L for 2012-2013 shall ensure optimal design. Government parties will facilitate the implementation of the residual working capacity by implementing the malpractice reform. It will be an objective that the degree of disability in each case should reflect the real working capacity and that classified disability benefits should be used to a much greater extent than at present. It is just added up in this case. Among other things, it will be easier to have a partial degree of disability when all employed persons are taxed in accordance with the same rules. It would also be desirable to have equal rules for the various disability insurance schemes. Prop. 202 L for 2012–2013 shows that it is fully possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It is essential, first and foremost, to ensure that those with a truly reduced working capacity have a decent life. A valuable life is to have a steady economic platform, but also to be given the opportunity to use their residual working capacity in order to be able to participate in the labour market. At the same time, it is very important to stimulate wages to work – this in order for individuals to realise themselves, but equally important for the welfare society to remain sustainable. Several steps are taken to build up below the workline. The upper age limit for a disability pensioner is changed from 70 to 67 years. The Committee points out that today’s legislation provides for a longer period of service for disabled persons than for those who are not disabled. A unanimous committee agrees with the government that this is unreasonable. After all, it's not common to work beyond 67 years, so where is the logic that everyone who does will automatically earn as if they had actually been working until 70 years? Other important measures to contribute positively to the working line are the reduction of some unreasonably high levels of compensation. The norm for public pensions is that you get paid 66 pst. of previous pension income. In fact, more private companies don't even get as much as 66 pst. In fact, the compensation rate for non-employment from the public service pension scheme may be higher than twice that of 66 pst, up to a total of 150 pst. I want to allow myself to point out – a little back to my line instead – that I do not fully understand how the red-greens can defend that you should have an increased degree of compensation that is inadequate compared to being working. If you get too high levels of compensation, there is a risk of weakening the workline. The majority of the Committee points out that although a reduction has been proposed in relation to what is common today, the proposal continues to raise to very high levels of compensation. Consequently, the majority of the Committee is very pleased that the Right Party Government, based on the Government Platform, is going to review current welfare arrangements to ensure that it pays off to work. The majority, consisting of the Left, Right and Advance Party, assume that such a review will also include an assessment of the level of compensation in the overall default code.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2077	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2080	Since the Advance Party sacrificed a line on me, I guess I'll give you back. The representative started his post by saying that it is not obvious that the Progress Party is behind the pension agreement. I understand that, because the Progress Party went into the election campaign and called the pension reform a pensioner – or whether it was the pensioner, I don't remember it exactly on the move. But the decision, that the Progress Party is behind the pension agreement, was well made on Sundvolden. So there's no doubt now that the Progress Party in the four-year period we're in is behind the deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2090	Thank you for the question. It is quite right that the representative from the Workers' Party says: there is no doubt that the Progress Party is behind the agreement. That's part of the consensus we have with the other bourgeois parties. But in my post, I remembered that historically, with the basic attitude of the Advance Party, we were skeptical of the whole agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2095	Then I want to get into what I myself got a question about, because the representative was also interested in it and actually asked a question about how the red-greens could defend compensation rates up to 150 p.m., and was very happy that the government will go through today's welfare arrangements to ensure that it pays to work. Does this mean that the Progress Party now, in addition to the desire to eliminate the lifestyle adjustment and child supplements, is also going to start cutting pensions for the disability pensioners who have the very lowest benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2102	I can't start to conclude anything here about how we're going to deal with it in the future. What's important to say is that we're going to go through the welfare state, all the arrangements, all the systems that are there, to see how we can manage to get more people into work. It is the line of work that is fixed, and then we have to see how it can be done in the most positive way possible for all the inhabitants of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2107	Then I choose to interpret it in the best possible way, so that they with low pensions may have their pensions in peace, and that active work qualification measures will be put in place for those untied pensioners who have very low pensions, and as the Progress Party is then so concerned that they have too much money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2112	I feel no need to comment on the last question any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2117	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2120	The Christian People's Party is pleased with the reform that we were able to agree on in the previous period, and which was broadly anchored. I want to start my post by stressing the importance of establishing a safety net for those who, for health reasons, do not have the power to be in full or in part at work anymore. It must be a sustainable reform that ensures decent benefits for those who are or will be disabled and at the same time ensures decent performance for those who become disabled in the future. Now we're not in the committee, so I want to link some comments to some of the points. The system and the new reform make it possible for those who want and have the opportunity to work to continue to do so. I think that's important. That's good, because then they can contribute to the residual working capacity they have. But then I would like to stress, as I also did when we dealt with the reform last, that it also requires a lot of society, that working life can actually facilitate work that can be adapted to someone who cannot necessarily deliver 100 pst. all the time, but which often depends on relatively small fractions to allow them to use the residual working capacity. That is why I believe it is also an important point in the future evaluation of the reform that will well come in 2018. We support the conversion of the State pension fund proposed today, which means that it becomes a net scheme, so that there is no coordination with the people's money that many people have had problems understanding. We are pleased that the scheme with a lower disability rate than 50 pst. is maintained, and even if it's not like that today, we accept the minimum limit set by the majority on 20 p.m., even if it's a tightening in relation to today's system. I would also like to remind you that when we dealt with the misinformation and the new unpre-reform, the Christian People's Party was busy trying to get to the same graduated system even in popular fear, that one could have a graded inadequacy down to 20 pst. Without commenting so much more, I believe that this is important in this case. So there's been a line exchange here about some low-paid groups and people who often have lower part-time positions, which get a little worse into today's system. I think it's problematic, but at the same time, it's – as many people have been involved in – so that these groups get paid almost as much in retirement as they had in labour income. Therefore, in the light of the line of work, it is also for the Christian People's Party to be able to participate in the proposals that lie here today. Then I'll comment on the children's supplement. I see that there is a disagreement in any case in the form of a comment – or at least there may be a disagreement in the committee. We believe that it is good that the child supplement is maintained, and that it helps to raise the basis of living for the disabled. It helps people who have low incomes to get decent income. I want to remind you who's most struggling. It's the poorest children, it's the children of the disabled, and it's social heritage -- it's an important keyword. It also means that if someone chooses to look blindly at a removal of the child supplement, I'm afraid that there will be consequences in the next round again. So that doesn't mean that one shouldn't have early efforts, one should nevertheless focus on the children in other ways. I also see that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that the transition to an old age pension will take place at 67 years of age, and that duty time will no longer be included. For the time being, there is a degree of screening of decapitating persons in terms of life expectancy adjustment in the population. The Christian People's Party supports that change and is pleased with the screening that came, and believes that the matter will also become important in the future. Even though I know that there is a desire to make changes, I would like to stress that living-age adjustment is one of the savings measures of the reform, and it is intended that one should be able to do more work. The victim does not have the same option, so we believe it is wrong to remove the shielding that has been placed on them. As for future developments, one must at least wait until one sees the evolution, because if it is set up in another way, I should rather be involved in the discussion. But as far as possible, we believe it is important that they can be screened on that piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2142	The 2011 UN reform is very sound. It makes it easier to combine disability and work, it is easier to understand, and it makes the system more resilient. We are in a break time for the welfare state, where many schemes that worked well in the past need adjustments and adaptations to work well also in the time we're going into. In particular, the principle that it should always pay to work, as many people have been in today, and that the Left is also concerned that it should be knee-deep in the whole field of work and social affairs. Although many people have jobs in this country – and we should be pleased about that – there is no doubt that there are too many outside the labour market. We're going to have a good social security network for those who need it, and we're going to be careful that it becomes a hangover. And for those who have a residual working capacity, it's decisive that combining work with social security pays off. Eighty p.m. of the disability pension list classified as 100 pst. not completed, and a total of 15 pst. of the working-age population, almost entirely outside the labour market due to long-term health problems. And they're going to have about 6 pst. of the employed persons who are still absent due to illness. The cost of life support for those outside the labour market due to short-term or permanent illness now amounts to more than 5 pst. of the total value creation in Norway. It's very much, and there's something you should be very conscious of. The proposal under consideration today is a natural continuation of the principle of the pension reform, with the subsequent reform of the disability scheme in the public sector until now also applicable to the public service pension schemes. Since the proposal was submitted by the Stoltenberg II government and has not been withdrawn by the Solberg government, it is natural that today there is a broad majority supporting the changes. It's also left, despite the fact that we don't have a seat in any of these governments. The hearing rounds show broad support for the proposals for changes, and this is important to bring with it when we talk about something as fundamental as retirement. Wide support for important welfare schemes is important if they are to make changes over time. About one third of the workers in Norway are covered by a public service pension scheme. The schemes are adopted by the government and form patterns for other public service pension schemes. The majority of the Committee therefore assumes that the main features of the legislative changes we are adopting here today are also being applied to the other public service pension schemes, although we are of course aware that it will involve dialogue with the social partners, where there are tariff rights. The proposal for the amendment of the law we have before us does not answer all the questions about future disability pensions – for example. Many children will still be able to obtain relatively high levels of post-tax compensation, for example. because it tried to increase the child supplement in the populace. The same applies to the question of the possible conversion of the default scheme into a pure insurance scheme, which has been widely favoured in the hearing process, resulting in corresponding changes for the private sector. We look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with a thorough discussion of the questions – and other questions, which are still open – after we have agreed to the setting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2168	The work on pension reform has been ongoing since 2001. In December 2011, the Stortinge adopted rules for new disability benefits in the social security system. The dry matter shall be equivalent to 66 pst. of previous income. The combination of disability benefits and employment benefits shall be made easier and the benefit shall be taxed as remuneration. In addition, disability benefits from occupational retirement provision schemes are to be taxed as wages and salaries, and the aim of which is – to which others have been subject – is to bring the rules into force from 2015. The switch from disability pension to disability benefit in the public sector also means that disability pension from public service pension schemes must be converted – hence today’s amendment to the law. It is important to have a good safety net for disability pensioners. In this article, I want to focus on two aspects: the child supplement and the statement that having income-intensive work will pay off. With regard to the supplement to children, an overall committee shows that the government in the proposal sees that the supplement to children in public service pensions contributes to very high levels of compensation, and therefore different models have been assessed. From the centre party, that's the problem. It is difficult to defend the child supplement for the high incomes. That's where the challenge lies. That's an important point. The children's supplement in the population's fear is a test of need. Child welfare is universal. It's a very good principle. The child allowance for public service pension must now be limited. This is correct in the opinion of the Centre Party, but there is still reason to ask why this is not also needed. In this context, the majority say that a ‘shows that the government under the Government Platform will go through today’s welfare systems to ensure that it pays to work’, including the outreach of the disability benefit. The premise that working is going to pay off is what I want to spend more time with. What's the starting point? We've had a bit of a temperate relationship in Norway. We have had small wage differences between the different occupational groups. It is a good thing that is now under strong pressure, and increasing pay differentials in Norway, combined with increased housing and living costs, are giving people with the lowest incomes more and more challenges to secure a safe living base for their families. Against this background, as legislators, we need to ensure that the financial incentives for working do not become so strong that people with low incomes and dependants lose a decent living base. That's the point I want to elaborate on, and it's very central that the Council of State follows this up. In other words, having a hard-to-earth job is to pay for it, we all agree, but it is gradually a number of people who are in such a situation with regard to the labour market that the income they can get in the labour market is so weak that if we do not have a sufficient safety net, the overall situation for these people, in the opinion of the Centre Party, will become incontestable. I hope that the Council of State will follow this up, so that one here is able to have two thoughts in his head at the same time: that those who have such a relationship with the labour force that they have a weak position there, are not affected by the change that had to come. That's how we can ensure that we're willing, which is not least in order to ensure good conditions for our young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2185	As has been said from the pulpit, the issue we are dealing with today is, in many ways, a purely follow-up to the debate and decisions taken by the Stortinge in 2011, when the major changes were made to the change in disability pension for the people's rights. At that time, as you know, you cut the umbilical cord from the disability pension scheme and the pension system and went over to reinventing your own social security system: disability benefit. As I said, the rules will come into force from 2015, and that is – to underline what has been said – so that a new disability benefit scheme will be 66 pst. of previous income. We get a new disability benefit scheme that makes it easier to combine work and disability benefits, and we also get a disability benefit scheme that is adapted to the decisions made in the disability benefit of the people's security. I would also like to point out that the Banking Law Commission has put forward proposals for a new disability pension in the private sector, which is not being consulted, and that the Ministry of Finance proposes that the billing proposal be presented and can be dealt with in the Storting, so that the new rules can be adopted and implemented with effect from 2015. As has been said by several speakers, the proposal that we are discussing today means that we are receiving a disability pension that is calculated as a net pension – at the top of disability benefits or redundancy benefits from social security. We simply get a better system, a more flexible system, a system that will make it easier to combine work and disability. So I want to comment on some of the things that have been raised about the level of compensation, especially for part-time employees, who have been very high. In my view, a level of compensation that is higher than that resulting from the bill is not appropriate. I am therefore very pleased that it is a joint committee that supports the legislative proposal. The supplement to children in public service pensions also contributes to very high levels of compensation. In the bill, the children’s supplement is reduced compared to today’s scheme, especially for people with high incomes. For people with moderate and slightly lower income, the reduction of the child supplement from the occupational pension scheme will be partially offset by an increase in the need-tested child supplement in the population’s security. In my opinion, this also takes into account the profile pointed out by the representative Lundtigen. I believe it is important that welfare schemes are designed to pay off working. I believe it is important to strengthen the working line, and I point out that the government has announced – as also the representative Lundtigen was involved in – a review of today's welfare arrangements, including investigating the child supplement in the disability benefit. I think it is important and sensible to carry out an overall review of our welfare systems, so that we get accurate welfare systems, welfare systems that are good, and that provide a good social security network, but also to cultivate the working line, build up below the working line and motivate us to get more people working and less on social security. I think that, among other things, what we are making of decisions here today is a good way to do it, and with the new disability pension scheme that will come into force in 2015, more flexible solutions will be available to combine work and disability and to combine this in a good way. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of putting in place a public sector disability pension scheme adapted to the disadvantages of the population, and I am pleased that a unanimous committee is joining the proposal. It's not unexpected. Given the decision taken in 2011, it would have been more perceptive if one had come up with another decision, or had a majority who had not followed up in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2204	Several have not asked for the floor on case No.9.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2218	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2227	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a very good cooperation and a good process in the handling of Message. St. 45 for 2012–2013, Freedom and Equivalence. We have worked together, and we deliver a unanimous attitude to Stortinget. The announcement of the cancellation Freedom and Equivalence was presented by the Stoltenberg II government and has been maintained by the government of Solberg. As part of the Committee's proceedings, consultations were held on the matter on 9 January of this year. The participants were employers’ and employees’ organisations, relatives’ organisations and stakeholder organisations. The committee received a lot of good input, which is also commented on in the comments. It has been over 20 years since the responsibilities reform was implemented. The aim of the reform was to improve the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities and to give them an equal life with the rest of the population. The size decided at the time to liquidate the municipal institutions because the institutional services prevented persons with developmental disabilities from being granted their fundamental rights to self-determination, private life, family life and participation in society. It is time to review the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities and to assess how far we have come to implement the objectives of the responsibilities reform. The following questions are highlighted in the message: Do persons with developmental disabilities have equivalent living conditions? Are people with developmental disabilities treated as equal citizens of society? Is it designed for participation in society? How is the right to self-determination exercised? Does society provide the necessary protection? Do people with developmental disabilities receive the assistance they need? It has been desirable to look at the values underlying the work in the field and the policy objectives to guide development. The aim of the Communication is to contribute to increased debate and attention to the situation of people with developmental disabilities. The notification to the EEAS describes the situation of persons with developmental disabilities in different areas of society, with a focus on kindergarten, education, work, health, housing and leisure. The Communication describes how thinking and attitudes have developed with regard to disabled people in general and those with developmental disabilities in particular. People with developmental disabilities are no longer being hidden away. They participate in society and are visible in many arenas. In the last 20 years, there has been a significant national and international strengthening of the rights of people with disabilities. In 2006, the United Nations adopted a Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Norway ratified the Convention on 3 June 2013. In the Committee, there is a cross-political consensus to follow up the UN Convention's intention to create a society with a place for all, regardless of their function. It is the municipalities and county councils that have overall responsibility for the services of the inhabitants, and the Committee expects local action plans to be drawn up, and municipalities and county councils to follow up the comments and guidance given by the Stortinget and the Government. Through the open consultation and meetings with individuals and organisations, the Committee has received numerous input that tells that disabled people continue to face barriers that prevent equal opportunities for activity and participation. Although a lot of positive has happened, there is still a lot that can get better. It is about both the political will and the effectiveness of what has been adopted. It's also about attitudes and what each of us has to do with, like including people with developmental disabilities in both working and social life, being different and being a little more noisy. The Communication points out that developments in integration and normalisation appear to have stagnated or gone astray in key areas such as housing, work and leisure in recent years. Keywords are: larger institutional-like housing, often in care centres less in work, in both sheltered enterprises and in the ordinary working life more with no day-care provision at all in school segregation through increased use of separate forms of education in their own classes or schools without participation in ordinary recreational organisations This can create closures for interaction with others and lead to stigmatisation and exclusion. Participation and interaction are prerequisites for integration, normalisation and valuation. It is by getting to know each other that standards change and one gets a common experience. This is the ideological basis on which the Committee considers that the necessary measures should be considered. Housing is important for all those who want to live a life of their own. The law that terminated the institutional care for the disabled was clear in its message: ‘Make it possible for people with mental retardation to live and live independently as far as possible and to have an active and meaningful life in common with others.’ A unanimous committee would like people with disabilities to have the opportunity to choose their place of residence and where and with whom they are to live, in line with others, and not to live in a particular form of residence. The Committee has taken note of the consultation input and discussions in the Communication, which raise concerns about the development of large housing complexes in many places in the country. A unanimous committee is clear that the leaders of the responsibilities reform stand firm and that too large housing complexes can lead to an institutionally-like housing environment. It is therefore important that municipalities, in cooperation with relatives and users, identify housing sizes and architectural design that fit into a normal living environment, adapted to those who live in dwellings and those who live together. For many, the safety of housing is important. The individual is the starting point for policy in this area, and it is therefore important to see the individual's situation and needs. Developmentally disabled people are not a uniform group. There are as many differences in this group as there are in the rest of the population. Therefore, a diversity of types of housing solutions is important. In some municipalities, relatives have joined forces and taken the initiative to build or purchase co-located homes for their adult children. The Committee considers this to be a great initiative and contributes to normalisation compared to other young adults. People with developmental disabilities, like everyone else, must be able to invest in the housing market and own their own housing. Those who have carried out such housing projects tell of many obstacles in bureaucracy and a swirling process. The Committee has taken these ideas seriously and is committed to facilitating private initiative, regulatory simplification and looking at the support schemes of the House Bank. A unanimous committee is concerned that students with developmental disabilities and learning difficulties receive the same individual follow-up as other school students and that good and realistic objectives are set for their training. It is important to facilitate good learning venues where students with developmental disabilities have their natural place in the school environment, with the possibility of social relations, social learning and good integration. The school shall be a common meeting place where all children and young people shall have the knowledge and opportunity to develop their skills, attitudes and values. When students are taken out of the ordinary class, it should be arranged for the time being with students without special education. Recordings by the representative organisation Norsk Network For Down Syndrome call for more targeted practical training in secondary school, preferably in cooperation with companies or municipalities, which can contribute to the qualification of the labour force. This is a recording that the Committee will pass on. It is an objective that all those in working age who have a job capacity should have a job to do. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that persons with disabilities are entitled to work in the same way as others. Nevertheless, we are far from being in terms of targets in this area. There are few people with developmental disabilities in ordinary work. The most widely used measure is VTA, permanently organised workplaces. The message shows that there is a large unmet need for permanent job placements in sheltered activities and in ordinary enterprises. The Committee has taken note of this, and there will be an area on which the Committee will have an increased focus during the major period. The state of competence of the services of the developing population is not optimal. Getting professionals and employees with the right skills in many municipalities is a challenge. Proper occupations and experience skills as well as adequate staffing are essential for the safety of both recipients and employees. The Committee is concerned about the scope of the measures implemented by force where exemptions from the competence requirements are granted. It is also a fact that people with developmental disabilities are more vulnerable to violence and abuse than the general population, and especially to sexual abuse. The Committee is concerned that those with developmental disabilities should be as well protected from violence and abuse as others, and considers that the municipalities should take this into account in the risk assessments carried out in terms of manning, competence and follow-up in housing and in activity and employment measures. In doing so, the Committee has noted the input from the Co-ordination Council for work on people with developmental disabilities, SOR, which proposes the establishment of an alerting, investigation and follow-up system for all adults at risk in order to enhance legal certainty for groups at risk, following a model from England. The Committee will ask the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion to look at the possibility of establishing such a system in Norway. The Committee considers that Notify. St. 45 for 2012–2013, Freedom and Equivalence, have discussed to a small extent and promised what measures need to be strengthened to ensure good living conditions and inclusion of people with developmental disabilities. To this end, a unanimous committee proposes that a wide-ranging selection should be set up, proposing appropriate and concrete measures to strengthen the fundamental rights of persons with development disabilities to autonomy, private life, family life and social participation. The mandate of the Committee must include objectives, actions, competences, legal certainty, the economy and the management system ensuring that national targets are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2325	The announcement of the ‘Freedom and Equivalence — About People with Developmental Disabilities’ is the first of its kind. For the first time, 20 years after the responsibilities reform was implemented, a government sends out a message to help improve the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities. This message was generated by the Stoltenberg government last summer and was not extracted from the Solberg government. I'm very pleased that there is, in general, a consensus committee position we are discussing today. The setting shows that there is mainly cross-political agreement in this important area, even if we were not at all. The Storting Message was met with criticism that it is too little concrete in terms of tools and measures, although it is good in situation description, state description and facts. Disability organisations have been concerned that the message was not concrete enough when it came to action, and they wanted a public selection to be set down. It is good, therefore, that the Committee on Budgetary Control set up a wide-ranging public selection to propose specific measures to strengthen the basic rights of people with development barriers to autonomy, privacy, family life and social participation. I want to add that this public selection, which is likely to work for a year or two, does not have to be a sleep cushion for the government. It does not have to wait to submit proposals for measures and instruments to improve the situation of those with disabilities. There are many good plural comments in the setting that the government can immediately get to grips with and realize. The rights of disabled people are strongly strengthened, both in Norway and internationally, over the last 20 years. At the same time, this review of the status shows that there is still a way to go before all people with developmental disabilities achieve real equality, equivalency, participation and participation. People with developmental disabilities, with different interests and different needs, have the same dishes as everyone else. From a political point of view, we work to ensure that people with developmental disabilities are recognised as equivalent citizens. Unfortunately, some people with developmental disabilities are still exposed to discrimination, harassment and abuse. We have to fight that. Today, most children with developmental disabilities live at home with the family. They usually go to school, and they participate in leisure activities in the same way as other children. Developmentally impaired adults have better living conditions than before the responsibilities reform. They participate in day-to-day activities in the local community, have far better health and live longer than a few years ago. Many have changed in a positive direction, but as a society, we're not in the target. Therefore, we will ensure better quality in training and education. We will strengthen the opportunities for those with developmental disabilities to participate in work and get good health and care services. To achieve this, we need more knowledge, higher competences, closer cooperation and better management systems that ensure that the policies that we adopt become real. Retirement in the care sector is one of the key words, and it is a sin here. For several years, I myself have been one of those being picked up, more or less from the street, to perform these important care and habilitation services. It is one of the most rewarding and grateful tasks you can have here in the world to contribute to the better quality of life for people with developmental disabilities. But it is not good enough when so many of the services are performed by unskilled callers in a zero percent position – without proper training – and when environmental therapists and caregivers can often be almost absent. This means that services may be reduced to the storage and coverage of basic needs, and legal certainty may be challenged. That's not good enough. Crew must be increased, and the number of skilled must be increased. More unskilled people need to be able to take professional letters and training, and the government needs to look at how to recruit more important professionals as protection services. This is also about local economy. We all live in a municipality. We are all enjoying a well-developed municipal welfare system. People with developmental disabilities are more than other affordable quality of public service in order to live good and value lives. If the community is merged because of poor local economy, the schools have too little resources, or the care services are characterized by understaffing and temporary workers, it may compromise the quality of life. It is therefore important that the government follows up the strengthening of the municipal economy that the red-green government carried out, and does not start cutting here, as the previous bourgeois government did. Nor do I have any faith that postponing competition, weakening the work environment law and more temporary additions will lead to better services for people with developmental disabilities. An entry for an inclusive community with equivalent services is to ensure that everyone can participate and be heard. This is the only way to figure out the good solutions. We want to raise awareness. We want to create a debate on the situation of people with developmental disabilities. How participation and legal certainty are taken care of for people with developmental disabilities are among the questions we have to ask ourselves. My hope is that the selection that the government now has to put down is to find answers to these and other questions and come back to Stortinget with proposals for good actions and tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2355	Today we are dealing with a matter that is important, not just for the Progress Party, but for them. We are talking about a matter where, over many years – from 1991 onwards – there have been quite unanimous political intentions, but unfortunately we see that the follow-up has not necessarily been as good. That's why I'm very happy that all the parties today have managed to get together. We have an attitude that is unanimous in most areas. It is a strength in the communication that we are now showing the cross-political will to move away from only beautiful words and more to concrete actions. For the Progress Party, having great care for the weakest in society has always been a high priority. One of the basics of liberalist ideology is to provide a well-functioning safety net for those who really need it, and I think many here today remember the commitment that John Alvheim had in his day to this matter. The message we are now processing was submitted by the red-green government. It was maintained by the blue-blue government. During the course of treatment – now with a civil majority – more improvements have been made. Because, as I said, you often agree with your intentions, but the challenge is that your intentions are not always followed up. In terms of the population of people with developmental disabilities, we see it in many areas. This may be the housing situation, because here we see that the intentions of the responsibility reform have not been followed up in all municipalities. The local economy has weakened the rights in too many cases. Then I'm very happy that the Progress Party and an overall committee are now going in to put this sample down. These are some of my predecessors who have re-recorded. It hasn't been a political majority for the past, but now we have a majority for it. We can now get a sample to look at and ensure the possibilities of independence, privacy, family life, community participation and not least the famous legal certainty. One of the challenges is that the group we're talking about might not be the group that necessarily shouts the highest and that's being seen, just as much as it should be. I believe that the organisations, with the Norwegian Association for Developmentally Disabled at the head, have done an incredibly good job of highlighting this to the committee as well. The main areas of the Communication — self-determination, legal certainty, violence and abuse, health and care services, housing, school, work — are how we, as a society, are able to take care of the weakest and those most in need of us. This is about human dignity and the basis of our values. Therefore, it heats up that we have a more or less unanimous attitude. We now have a government that shows action. We now get the illustrious sample in place, and I also hope that we get a fast-working sample that delivers continuously. In addition, I am reassured by what the government has been ready to do: that putting down a sample does not stop any processes, but that you will constantly look at how you can come up with concrete things, so that from good intentions you can get into concrete matters and decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2370	A message using the words «freedom» and «equity» makes an ambitious headline for a society that will accommodate everyone. For the Christian People's Party, it must be a goal that this is followed up concretely. There's been a lot of work in this area to include disabled people in our society, but we're in no way on target. We saw, for example, which debate Marte Wexelsen Goksøur's participation at Eidsvoll created a few weeks ago. Now we need to focus on the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities. No Marte Thorkildsen started work on the staging message that would describe what had been done, what measures were available, and the work that had to be done. Now, the Storting is following up this by bringing down a wide-ranging sample to provide concrete measures to strengthen the fundamental rights of people with disabilities. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the values underlying this work, when we are now going to further develop a policy for the development of the disabled. What do we mean by the words «freedom» and «equity»? What do we focus on? Do we focus on the differences or on the similarities? It is important for us that the disabled get to live with others, be with the family, have a place to live and feel secure in everyday life and can go to school with others, have an active leisure time and participate in the working life under the best possible conditions. Developmentally handicapped people contribute by their presence to norms in society, and that is very important to all of us. When they are taken out of school, education, work or organisational life, the value of society is reduced, and it is society that also loses out on this. The setting reads as follows: ‘The Committee points out that the review of the situation of Bufdir and research in this area makes it clear that there is a way to go before one can say that one has successfully achieved key objectives of integration and normalisation, namely in terms of housing, school, work and leisure, as others, and together with other persons without developmental impairment. In fact, in the last ten years, development has gone wrong.’ And there are examples of this: larger institutional housing, fewer in work both in sheltered enterprises and in ordinary working life, no day-to-day provision at all, school segregation through increased use of separate forms of education, lack of participation in regular leisure services, etc. This can create closures and unnecessary prejudices between people and groups. The result may be stigmatisation, segregation and, in the worst case, exclusion. It's very important that we create a interacting society. It is a prerequisite for integration and normalization, for valuation and for a good life for all of us. Through association and a society all parts, people get better acquainted with each other, get more understanding, standards spread, and we get a better and warmer society through shared experiences. This, we believe, is the ideological basis which must form the basis for the work to be carried out further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2386	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Bente Stein Mathisen, from the Right, for an outstanding good and tidy job. I've never said it like that before, and that's why I let it search. The message is from the red-green ones. It was said by many organisations that it was little concrete, but the organisations still agreed that it was promoted. The message was not very ideological, but the setting that has now come uses the word 'ideology'. Yes, it uses the word ‘ideology’ for an overall committee — it is quite special. It's a clear and unambiguous setting, and it's a very good logic. It's a very good logic that gives both the less developed and the people in the first line a clear responsibility and clear rights. So, in my opinion, this is an exemplary attitude, where one clears the terrain and gets clear guidelines both for those who are going to experience it in everyday life – to get a better everyday life – and for those who are going to help it in such a way that it happens. It is, as many have said, a follow-up to the responsibilities reform for those with developmental disabilities, which built on an ideological basis, namely that one should have integration, normalisation, maritime regulation and living conditions as others. Many have elaborated this, I don't have to go into it any further. There is an overall committee which shows that it is both a political will and an executive role in the adoption of the directive. It's also about attitudes and what each of us has to do with, like including people with developmental disabilities in both working and social life, being different and being a little more noisy. Participation and interaction are prerequisites for integration and normalisation, valuation and good living conditions, and through this become familiar with each other, norms change and a get common experiences. This is the ideological basis on which to assess what action is needed. As others have also pointed out, it is necessary to specify a number of instruments in terms of residence, employment opportunities and the right to meaningful leisure. It will be followed up by policy-adopted municipal action plans. It is one of the messages that the Committee makes, and it is important that the government also follow up on economic instruments, so that it can do so. We should not put greater expectations on the municipalities than the municipalities are given financial opportunities to carry out, because this is demanding work. I would like to underline what others have also said: it is a unanimous committee that asks the government to set up a wide-ranging body, but it should not be such that it postpones the implementation of concrete measures. The setting provides an exemplary review of the various areas of school, housing, work and day care and leisure. There is one point on which we in the Central Party have a special comment, and on which I am somewhat disappointed that we did not get the committee – and I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of it – and there is the need to establish new long-term organized jobs in the screen or ordinary activities, so-called VTA sites. We say from the Center Party that there is a need for 500 new places over a few years. What is our starting point, which is the most important thing, is what we have learned – that a number of young people complete their secondary school without any seamless transition to permanent job placements. We have to get away from that. Therefore, not least, the need for long-term job creation is great, and we have to do something about that. I know a number of examples of parents and people involved, who have a long stay of several months before one gets that opportunity. At the end of the day – competence: The Committee agrees to strengthen professional competence, but I also want to strike for real competence, and also challenge the Council of State at that point. There are many skilled professionals who do not have exactly the professional competence as one in many cases of demand, but who have characteristics – by their behavior – and competence from other areas that are so good that one should be able to continue it, and also have a career on that basis. So real competence is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2405	The responsibilities reform seen in 1991 had many good goals and many good intentions. It was a major and ambitious reform to improve the quality of life of people with developmental disabilities. Unfortunately, the reform also had some unintended consequences and was in many ways a housing reform. The aim of the reform was that people with developmental disabilities should have good integrated cultural and leisure services in their local environment, together with the population, or in addition to their own organised housing. Unfortunately, the implementation of the reform has been the same, even if the intentions were good. All were to be moved out, preferably to their own homes in their communities, and unfortunately, the challenges for many were very different. We hear at times about young people with disabilities who are located in a nursing home in their municipality, because there is not a good enough alternative. There is an unsustainable situation. Some people with disabilities work so well that they can manage in their own homes, perhaps with some help and with follow-up, for example. from a user-controlled personal assistant, while others may want the best at a custom institution. What's important here is that the user himself and his family define the need. It's surprising that there's going in the wrong direction on some areas. There are fewer people with disabilities in work, both in sheltered enterprises and in ordinary working life, and there are more without day care. There is increased use of separate forms of teaching, it is one-hour, groups, classes and private schools. Fewer people participate in ordinary recreational organisations. Now is the time to do a job. We need to become more attractive in a range of areas related to housing, schooling, work, day care, culture and sport, but also when it comes to increasing the skills of people with disabilities. We also need to be more effective at improving the legal certainty of human beings about this debt, and at reducing the risk of abuse and coercion etc. There is cause for concern when the number of people with decisions on the use of force has increased from 178 in 2000 to 906 in 2012 and that supervisory activity has decreased over the same period. Then we're not going in the right direction. So here we are. Here, too, we stood over two years ago. It has been well documented for a long time that, despite many good intentions, the Liability Reform has some serious shortcomings. We didn't really need a big message to find out. It is clear that there is a lack of scope in the interventions for both the well-functioning and those with extensive and complex disabilities. It is also clear that there are few individual adaptations, that there is a lack of systematic provision within culture and leisure, and that there is a lack of systematic health and activity work. We also know that people with disabilities are more exposed to violence and sexual abuse than other groups, and we know that the use of coercion is increasing. It believes the legal security of a group that itself is not as good as trying to measure and secure its own dishes as many of us do. Much was known. There was also a background for the Left to want a proper, thorough and holistic review of the reform, which would result in concrete and varied actions for this non-specific group. For this reason, in 2011, the Left launched a proposal for a representative to set up a public selection to follow-up the Liability Reform, in order to improve the living situation of people with developmental disabilities. A consensual health and care committee at the time agreed with the Left that we had to find new measures to address the shortages of responsibility reform. That is why the Left has been somewhat disappointed in the result. Instead of bringing down a public selection, one chose to follow up the proposal with an explanation from Buffdir and a big message. As a discussion task, the message is good, but as a concrete work tool it is not satisfactory. The strength of the message is that it has mapped a lot of what we knew in and out of it. She's got increased consciousness, that's right. She has created a debate on people with disabilities – as is the case here today – and has raised the focus to the highest political level. We asked for a selection to be set down that would also suggest how the living conditions of people with disabilities could be improved. Therefore, the Left is pleased that a co-consultant committee has now gathered to set up a broad public selection with the aim of delivering concrete actions. It's a happy result of a long process. We sincerely hope that this will eventually lead to the achievement of all the good objectives of the Liability Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2427	As several others have said before, this is a matter inherited from the previous government, a matter where SV was at least a main architect, using several other organisations and users. This is a matter where we agree, as most people have said. I just want to say that I am very pleased with the work that has been done, also by the rapporteur. She let us through, so that we on the rap can present the other issues where all the parties agree. That's a good promise. I am also very pleased that we agreed to put down a sample to do this even better – process it and make it better for all of us – because that was not enough. We agree on that, too. Then it'll be better for everyone. That's good for everyone. I also look forward to the further work that needs to be done, because that is coming. We're not done with that. I look forward to improving the conditions for people with developmental disabilities. I would also like to say here that I look forward to continued good cooperation with the organisations, who have helped us. At least they've helped me. They have shown me and pointed out things that we had to bring with us. So I look forward to continued good cooperation. And with that, it'll probably get even better at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2438	We're not going to go back far in time until people with a developmental disability were undiscovered and stowed away in remote institutions. Fortunately, today the situation is completely different. People with developmental disabilities have become visible in public space. We can enjoy television series like the Tangerudbaken Borektslag and the film Detective Downs. Then we can be proud of Marte W. Goksøir's beautiful appeal during the opening of the foundation anniversary at Eidsvoll. Despite the increased visibility of people with developmental disabilities, one of my most important tasks as Minister in this field is to break the silence around the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities. We need knowledge, we need attention, and we need debate. We need to make visible the challenges facing people with developmental disabilities in today's society. In this debate, we all need, we also need the less developed. As stated in the message: – “nothing about us without us”. It's been over 20 years since the HVPU reform, and a lot has been done. Reform is one of the largest social policy reforms in recent times. The cancellation message that we are dealing with today was presented by the previous government, but was not drawn by the new government. The message gives us a good picture of the status and gives us the opportunity to plan the way forward. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the status, challenges and need for further action in this field. The notification shows that we have not achieved the objective of full equality, self-determination and participation for the developing population. Therefore, this message should not be in a drawer or become a sleeping cushion. It is my primary responsibility to ensure a good follow-up, along with other relevant departments. But we all have a responsibility to follow up. I will present a new information and development programme to facilitate the follow-up of developments in the living conditions, stimulate debate and build skills in the service sector. As part of the work on the programme, I will develop a platform for cooperation between authorities and civil society on policies and measures for the development of the disabled. As responsible for coordinating the field, it is important for me to get recordings from many teams. I want a good dialogue and cooperation with users and relatives and their stakeholder organisations, caregivers, help nurses and others who work in the field of politicians and administration in municipalities, where people live voluntary organisations, just to name a few. We also need to know more about people with a developmental disability with a migrant background, about the living conditions of people with a developmental disability, and not least the situation of their relatives. Therefore, the follow-up to the Storting's wish to appoint a public body to propose appropriate and concrete measures that strengthen the fundamental rights of persons with development disabilities becomes important in the further work. But this sample doesn't have to be a sleeping cushion. This government shall demonstrate that it is possible to initiate actions in the course of the process. It is an important matter for the government to give individuals and families greater freedom to decide for themselves their own lives and make their own choices. It's not a task for the state to force everyone into the same pattern and lifestyle. Flexible solutions enable everyone to make the best use of their abilities, based on their own wishes and abilities. There are dilemmas related to self-determination for those with developmental disabilities. Therefore, it is important to strike a balance between self-determination and the right to be safeguarded. This is not easy, and it requires good assessors to be added to the service, based on a sound professional position. The Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate, Bufdir, has been assigned to acquire self-determination knowledge for people with developmental disabilities. They have launched two projects, which are expected to be completed by the summer. Persons with a developmental disability are allowed to speak for themselves as informants in the project. It is important to ensure the legal certainty of people who do not themselves know their rights and who cannot make demands. There is currently not always a match between the rights of the individual and how the rights are fulfilled, and there are too many differences in the follow-up to the municipalities. Work is needed to improve procedures and follow-up. The work on monitoring the legal security of persons with developmental disabilities has begun and will also take place with the departments and Directorates concerned. We know that many people with developmental disabilities are not well protected against violence and abuse. Several tragic things have been reported in the media, and I am unfortunately afraid that the numbers of darkness are high. Everyone knows the Battle case in Stavanger – 28-year-old Jonny André Risvik who was tortured to death by the people he lived with. The abuse took place over several weeks – a tragedy that should have been avoided. Knowledge suggests that people with developmental disabilities are more at risk of violence and abuse than the general population. Persons with developmental disabilities shall be as well protected from violence and abuse as any other person. Bufdir has been assigned the task of developing procedures for the use in the service to prevent, detect and deal with violence and abuse. I'm also familiar with the method developed and used in England, called SOVA, which is something Bufdir has to do with putting a Norwegian system in place at municipal level. During the weekend we could also read in the Evening Post about parents looking for municipalities that enforce statutory rights for those who need help. It should not be that people have to move from one municipality to another to get good enough health or care services. Everyone shall have equal rights and access to health and care services. There is a comprehensive set of public services and legislation to ensure that all are provided with necessary and individually organised health and care services. The interaction reform sets out important objectives to strengthen coordination between different health and care services in order to provide good services. The right to an individual level is an important tool to strengthen the provision of assistance to those in need of complex services. The government is concerned with that competence in the service. In order to strengthen competence and recruitment in municipalities, the government has also strengthened the Competencelift 2015 by 52 million. kr. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will also establish the ‘ABC of my life’, following the model of Demensorgens ABC, which will strengthen competence, in particular for unskilled people in the services of people with developmental disabilities. Today, most children with developmental disabilities live at home, and adults with developmental disabilities have better housing conditions than they had before the reform. It is basically the right of the individual, regardless of the level of function, to decide where to live and who to live with. For a long time, there has been concern that housing for people with developmental disabilities has grown so many and so large in one place that they are similar to institutions. Therefore, I am pleased that the guidelines to the House Bank have changed to counteract the tendency to build too large a dwelling. The message also states that the school should be inclusive with room for all students. Children and young people shall have the opportunity to develop attitudes, values and individual abilities in a safe environment with other children. The school shall cover the basis for transition to work, and the relationship between school and work shall be examined in more detail to see if the developmentally disabled come to work after school and how the school works to facilitate this. I have visited several rehab companies. Seeing the joy of work out there makes an impression. But I share the Committee's concern that the proportion of people with developmental disabilities who are not at work has increased. It is also worrying that the proportion of people with developmental disabilities who have no daytime activity has increased since 2001. That is why I am pleased that the government in the 2014 budget has strengthened the number of action places for people with disabilities by approx. 3000 places. In the government platform, we clarify the importance of facilitating the participation of people with disabilities in working life and in everyday life, both because society needs their labour force and so that individuals can participate in a community at work. Of course, this also applies to people with developmental disabilities. My task will now be to follow up the message. My main contribution is to be a driver of performance in other sectors and to contribute to the visibility of the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities and part of the public debate. Awareness of the challenges associated with achieving the objectives of the policy for the development of people with disabilities needs to be increased at all levels of government. Especially in municipalities where people with developmental disabilities live, work and live their lives. The strength of this Communication is that there is an overall committee and an aggregate cluster that is behind it. It gives strong signals to those who need it and who want freedom and equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2510	I will also be allowed to join those who praise the case rapporteur for a good job. Maybe we can be allowed to praise the entire committee, because it was a better setting than the message initially provided. Although very much is the same, it's important how we can follow up on this in the future. It is a solid piece of political craft that has been done in that matter. I think it is positive in itself that the Storting is so united behind the setting, because this is an important message about the values to be taken into account in the policy of people with developmental disabilities in the time to come. The aim is for the message to contribute to increased debate and attention around the situation of people with developmental disabilities. But it means – as several others have been involved – making words into action. A unanimous increase is therefore provided that we should follow up on the appointment of a sample to assess concrete actions in the area of individual rights, as it says, of autonomy, privacy, family life and community participation. It is hoped that this sample will concentrate on looking ahead and not have to spend the time making proposals that need to correct a trend that is in the wrong direction. In this respect, I would like to call a warning when it comes to housing. The right to housing is granted relatively large space in the message, primarily in terms of access to housing and various forms of housing to ensure the same freedom of choice as others. But there is another aspect that is not particularly affected in this message, probably because there is a question that one might think was already solved, or at least set the direction, when the message was written, but where the government now seems to be going in the wrong direction. The message reads: ‘The regulatory design of the Planning and Building Act shall ensure the construction of accessible dwellings and the universal design of new buildings, structures and outdoor areas for the public and work buildings.’;» Then allow me a quick look back, more specifically until 10 June 2008. Then a historic decision was taken in Stortinget: we adopted the anti-discrimination law. The present State Council Anniken Huitfeldt said the following: ‘This is a big and important day. The majority treats a law that provides disabled people with legal protection against discrimination because we want a society that is accessible to everyone. We no longer have a focus on health and social policy, but we state that this is about inclusion and equality." The dwelling was then one of the pain children. Only 7 pst. of the Norwegian housing stock is universally designed. Making all the dwellings available is a long canvas to bleach, but we started making demands on new dwellings. TEK 10, as it is popularly called, the construction code, imposes some physical requirements for the design of new dwellings, among other things. with regard to requirements for wheelchair users to be able to move indoors without excessive problems. So you can ask yourself what this has to do with people with a developmental disability. Actually quite a lot, because many people with developmental disabilities have additional disabilities in terms of physical impairment. What's worrying is that the new government wasn't old until it started to pick up the universal design requirement for housing. It didn't come quite unexpectedly. Already at Højre's national meeting in 2013 we saw the first signs. Rightly programmed that they would revise the Planning and Building Act and the provisions of TEK 10, with the aim of facilitating technical requirements for new dwellings and rental dwellings. In the government statement it seems that the Right has brought the Advance Party on this. I'm really wondering what the Christian People's Party and the Left think about that question. Minister of State Jan Tore Sanner was recently out in the media and pointed out to Sweden, where one operates with a 130 cm wheelchair snuff circle. However, the disability organisations in Sweden have refuted that this is enough for today’s wheelchairs, as is the case in Norway. Those wheelchairs Nav delivers all of them, most of them, ideally require a 180-cm snub circle. So the organizations have proposed a compromise of 150 cm. Having your own insole standing, as Sanner has suggested, is totally unrealistic. In addition, he disregards the fact that those with developmental disabilities with physical disabilities are also social individuals, who want to be able to move elsewhere and in other homes than in their own apartment. So the Labour Party hopes that the Minister of Inclusion will immediately intervene and stand on the side of disabled people in this case, thus fulfilling the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and ensuring that we achieve the goal of universally designed Norway by 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2533	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2536	I am also very happy that the Storting today has a unanimous attitude in this matter. It deserves to be done. There has been a great commitment from organisations to people with developmental disabilities, who have worked intensively towards the political environment to get this in place. When the responsibilities reform was implemented, the principle debate was very important – the principle debate on equality and non-discrimination, and that all in society should be able to make decisions in their own lives and be included in the community. As the years have passed, we have seen that part of the policy towards people with a developmental disability has shifted more and more back to the old institutional form again. The reason for this has often been that municipal services or services have been too poor, so special solutions have had to be chosen because it has been better than a very poor solution in the local environment. It's evolved into an evil circle, which has confirmed that this is the best way to do it. That is why this matter was so important, and therefore it is now so important that there is a unanimous increase in support of the principles to be followed. I hope it doesn't get along with this, which I've had the feeling that it's been when I've discussed a lot of other things like this for people with disabilities in general, that there's going to be a positive cotton dot of goodwill that you can box into. Everyone agrees, but really there won't be so much out of it when you get to chalk. It's incredibly important that we now follow up in all areas. Dwelling is one of the most important areas where it is to be maritime, the municipality should not own you. You have to be able to decide where you want to live. As the representative Lise Christoffersen said, it's like how we now deal with universal design issues related to the general housing stock, is important, because this also applies to this group, and many of them need wheelchairs to be able to live there. Issues related to the right to assistance, the right to individual services, work and daily services are also important. There was something good that Stortinget did in the last period, that we said that the money for permanent work should be in a separate post, so that you can count: how many are there? How many places do we have? What needs to be put in place now is a registration, so that anyone who can benefit from such an offer is registered, and you can dimension the offer after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2553	I am very pleased that both Karin Andersen and Lise Christoffersen came into the TEK 10 and increased construction costs and in particular the requirement for swing radius for wheelchairs. I would like to remind the assembly, the Stortinget and also the President that the requirements that have been made in TEK 10 – there are many requirements there, the swing radius is one requirement – actually cost only dwellings of 500 000 – 600 000 kroner. There are some huge amounts that we politicians have pushed on the people because of all kinds of demands. I talked to the AF Group that's building a lot of student homes now. They are quite clear that only because of the requirement for a larger bathroom in small student housing, there is talk of an extra cost of approx. NOK 100000 per student dwelling. We know how young people struggle to get into the housing market. We know how students struggle to get student housing. Then it's important to be a little bit flexible and think a little bit completely. You can, for example: have a requirement that the x number of student accommodation shall have special arrangements. You can, for example: have support schemes for those who need special organisation, but you must not have a policy that affects the entire Norwegian people and imposes several hundred thousand dollars on the Norwegian population in extra costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2560	So it had to be so little before it came! I would recommend the representative Johnsen to visit the government's website, on the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernization's website. There are calculations of how TEK 10 will turn into costs. In terms of universal design, it is miles away from the costs to which the representative Johnsen now referred. An expert group that has been set up has calculated this. It's true that if we mean that people are going to be equal, we actually have to do something about it. In that case, society must be involved in taking the costs that make it possible for everyone to choose a dwelling and visit where they want to. That's just 8 pst. of the universally designed dwellings. It's a tiny fraction. We probably have inaccessible dwellings in this country. There's no shortage of it. The ones we're missing are the ones that are available. Then we have to make demands on what is new, so that it is possible to choose also for people with a developmental disability. Yeah, it's going to cost something to do this, but we're doing it because it's right, because it's about us all being equally valuable and having equal opportunities to make authoritative choices in our own life. It is the principle in this case, and it is the principle of the Anti-Discrimination and Availability Act, which has also been unanimously adopted by the Stortinge. It's when the money is to be distributed, that it turns out that we actually mean something about it. Then we have to make the choices that make us change the society that we've designed out of ourselves that doesn't have a disability. We built it for ourselves, we haven't built it for everyone. That is the recognition I had hoped that the Storting had now taken full advantage of it, and that it also has consequences for how we distribute the economy below.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2575	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2592	This is a hall that has made many courageous decisions, especially in the Norwegian language. This is a hall that will celebrate the 200th anniversary of a constitution, but has also been willing to come up with bold measures to ensure Norwegian language in the 200 years we have had a constitution and the 100 years we have had our seaworthiness. That is why it was a bit festive when, on 25 April 2009, we discussed the red-green message about languages. I was the author of the case, and there were many big words that were expressed from the Parliamentary Chair during the processing of the paper. There were over 100 actions to be implemented to strengthen Norwegian languages. Many of them were really good. Many of them had really been able to raise Norwegian language. The Christian People's Party and the Left were committed to achieving an action plan where it was actually said when implementing all these good measures, but on 25 April 2009 the most marked was party speeches, little concrete decisions, and there are many of the more than 100 measures that have not been taken. That was a good message. It was a historic day, because we have not had such a broad review of Norwegian language policy since the 1970s. Around the celebration of the constitutional anniversary, we have now had a series of our own on the dialectic kingdom of Norway, where many have learned a lot about Norwegian dialects and Norwegian languages. What strikes you when you go into that problem is how much Norwegian language policy has meant by the way we've developed our language, and the way we use our dialects. The fact that we have not had an official correct language and that we have here, for example. using our own dialects on the Stockholm Chair, the dialects have had a very special position in Norway, whether all countries have many dialects of which they can be proud. Another challenge is that I think that never before in history have so many people gone to learn Norwegian as right now. I don't think there's so many people around the planet who've learned this strange little language of ours that's right now. At the same time, we see that a lot of kids grow up with multilingualism as a normality. Being able to master different languages and Norwegian languages in that role, I think it's important to have a policy on which kids get a normal relationship with Norwegian as their main language when they're in Norway, but where we're happy that people know other languages as well, because multilingualism is going to be important to Norway as a nation. One of the measures we in the Left were very pleased with in the big message was that we would merge the laws of language and get a language law of our own. I have continued to ask the Minister of Culture about regularly since 2009. Now I ask a new Minister of Culture about language law is something that this Minister of Culture wants to write about not only in the big news, but actually implement. The second is the position of the newnorse. Ninnorphic and book goals are the two writing languages that we use here in Norway, and there are a lot of courageous decisions in this room that equate them, and the left has usually been at the heart of everyone. It is important to develop languages, both in the public administration, in business and working life, and in education and research, in order to keep the Norwegian language alive in the future. In the field of education and research, it is important to also have the opportunity to publish scientific articles and develop a scientific language within each subject in order to be able to get Norwegian involved in development. The same applies in business and working life. When we discussed the language message, several of us were in favour of Norwegian limited liability companies delivering their annual report in Norwegian, that there was a minimum of requirements to be able to develop our business language and our working language. We've had a principle in public administration called writing a letter in new Norwegian, you have to have the answer in new Norwegian, and you write a letter in bookkeeping, you have to have the answer to bookkeeping. This is a right that the government in its government statement has asked questions about and will liquidate. How does the Council of State actually view this in relation to the important decisions that have just been taken in order to equalise the forms of language in Norwegian, precisely in order to develop the new Norse and Book Goals side by side also in the public administration? I believe it is important that when a question is asked in a neo-Norwegian way within the general government, the government should also be able to express itself in that language and have a vocabulary in that language when you have to reply. If we look at the government statement, there are many approaches to language policy, and there are many fragments of a language policy in the government statement. But a little bit of the basic thing that I'm asking about today is whether I get the Council of State to put this in a context that's government language policy. It says, among other things: the need to strengthen Nordic language policy. What measures will be taken to strengthen Nordic cooperation in the understanding of languages? What are the measures to be taken to complete what the government defines as a target? Grants are required both within culture, within the media and in other areas in order to strengthen Nordic in language policy. Another thing that marked the debate on 28 April 2009 was that I think it's the only debate we've had that has been sign language interpretation, where we had sign language interpreters up in the gallery, so that all deaf or sign language users who were present got to follow the debate in that language. It was important that day because we decided that sign language should also be an official language in Norway. We agreed on this with brash and bram. I am very pleased that the government in its government statement has that some of the professional environments associated with schools in sign language should be restored. I assume the Minister of Education is doing that job, so I'm not going to ask the Minister of Culture about that. But the role of sign language, the measures to be taken, and the strengthening of the Language Council in order to actually be able to have a language policy stance on sign language and how to develop that language, we in the Left will pursue and take care of further. For a language is not just a way to communicate, it's identity, it's culture, it's history. This is why the two writing languages in Norway are so important, but that is also why sign language is so important. Sign language is not just a way to communicate without using your ears, it's actually also a way to communicate culture. And the sign language is an equally important cultural bearer who has been a new Norse, and as book goals are, for us to hear. Another part of this — in the last minute — is literature and library policy and media policy, which are also an important part of Norwegian language. The fact that we have NRKs that are able to communicate news, that are able to create documentaries, yes, that are also able to create at least some cool drama series in Norwegian, is important. And it's important that we have NRKs that make good children's programs, so that even the children can relate to good quality in their native language. But it's also important that the dialects are heard in the NRK, so that it's not just going to be played in oslo languages, but that it can be natural for children to play in other languages as well. In literature and library policy, it is important to have purchasing systems, it is important to have a library effort that allows us to access literature in our own language, that we have the opportunity to obtain information in our own language. We have to remember that the libraries are really one of the most social equalization measures we have. They're really one of the cultural policy grips that the Enger Committee said has slowed down under the cultural promise. The basic elements of Norwegian cultural life that have been weakened are just the libraries, the libraries that have been at the very heart of the dissemination of Norwegian literature, which are so important in providing literature access and language access, language development and opportunities for all Norwegian citizens. It is important for a new Minister of Culture to take on board, because that was what the red-greens couldn't do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2624	Thanks for the important and useful reminder of this interpellation – important because the language is undoubtedly our foremost cultural expression and identity mark, and useful because it is easy to ignore language policy considerations when dealing with issues that are primarily about something other than language. As I understand it, it was a key point in that Communication that language policy must be about language and language use in all sectors of society. This broadens the perspective compared to traditional language policy, which was largely a dispute over spelling and about the relationship between the objectives. In this context, I noticed that the message included. set a definitive point for the old Samnorsk policy. In a society increasingly affected by the effects of globalisation, the overall framework conditions and opportunities for development of Norwegian languages must be the main language policy theme. Here the position of the Norwegian language in relation to the English language is the central question. The overall objective to which the Stortinget joined in 2009 was to ensure that Norwegian will remain as a fully-fledged, civic language in Norway. This presupposes taking linguistic policy considerations into account in all areas of society when designing and implementing sectoral policies. In practice, this is demanding, for all of us will naturally have most of the attention attached to our own core tasks. In this perspective, the Language Council has an important role to play. One of the main tasks of the Language Council is to analyse the impact of language policy on action in different areas of society and to contribute to greater language policy awareness. In this context, the Language Council has expanded its field of work, including: perform the function of national coordinating body for the development of Norwegian technical terminology. The Language Council has also been tasked with working in Norwegian sign and minority languages, and has just reorganised internally. Our assessment is that the Language Council now needs work so that this can be done. However, I am aware that it may be appropriate to carry out an evaluation later in the period. The enlargement of the Language Council's work area is an expression of the fact that language policy now has a more comprehensive perspective than before. However, the Language Council has limited instruments, and there are also many other key language policy actors, both organisations and institutions. The government will help all of these to get good working conditions. This is important in order to maintain a lively debate on language policy. Governments other than the Minister for Culture also manage matters which are important elements of a comprehensive language policy. This, of course, applies to the Minister of Knowledge, and also to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, with his responsibility for common policies and policies for national minorities. Language issues are also an important theme in integration policy. The government will base the extended perspective on the language policy I have referred to above. In addition to this, we will follow the broad lines outlined in the language message, with the reservations contained in the reservations of the government parties and in part the cooperation parties took during the deliberations. There are also some corrections and signals in the government platform. Nor will I feel obliged to review each of the many points of action that the previous government has failed to follow up. Something we have not taken a final stand on is the legal issues that were discussed in the communication. This applies, inter alia, to: revision of the law on target use in public services and the drafting of a general language law with general provisions on both Norwegian and other languages in Norway, including the legal anchoring of Norwegian sign language. I have noticed that in 2009 a Joint Committee stated that it felt there was a need for a clear legal anchoring of languages in Norway, and that it looked forward to the outcome of the ministry's work on an overall language law. I am also aware that the representative Skei Grande called for this work in a written question to the previous Minister of Culture in October 2012. The Ministry will now look at the possibility of making the most comprehensive language law possible. In this context, we will also consider how to follow up the government platform. The platform indicates that the current rule on the right of reply in its own form is to be replaced by a right for public servants to use their own target form. At the same time, the platform underlines that the government will support both objectives. A new government must go through all the legislative issues on an independent basis. It's about time to say how long we'll need to review this, but this is a work we'll give priority to. I also expect that it will be natural to consult not least the cooperation parties in Stortinget along the way. The main objective of language policy, which I believe is a broad consensus, is the status and use of language in different areas of society. However, a comprehensive language policy must also be concerned with the culture of the language itself, language-speaking, standardisation and linguistic advice, and with the documentation of language and language development. There are many actors at different levels in society who have a responsibility and an important role to play, but the public must feel a special responsibility for their handling of the language. Public language use should not be an example of horror, rather as an example of follow-up. Unclear management language can be a welfare and democracy problem. Therefore, we will continue to work for a better and more understandable public language. Of course, the school is most important, because basic language skills are to be learned and good language practices are to be developed. The platform determines that the government will give priority to the literacy skills of students throughout the school cycle. It also alerts a review of the entire Norwegian field to strengthen it as a language subject and to make cross-target education more committed to students. The Government Platform also notes that the ability to participate in society is particularly linked to good Norwegian knowledge and that Norwegian education is also a cultural policy objective. Large parts of cultural and media policy also play a major role in strengthening Norwegian languages, both book goals and new Norwegian. Literature and library policy is a foundation of language policy. Purchasing arrangements under the Norwegian Cultural Council have been an important literature and language policy instrument. However, it is important that adjustments and adjustments take place as progress is made. I am therefore pleased that the Culture Council has decided that all literature support schemes should be reviewed to introduce changes before 2015, and that authors, translators, publishers and libraries should be consulted in this process. I also assume that the Language Council should be consulted, so that we are sure that the purely language policy aspects of the case are also carefully assessed. As intermediaries of linguistic and literary forms of expression, libraries are important instruments in a national language policy. Here I want, among other things. demonstrate that the government in the 2014 budget contributed more than 12 million. kr to bet on the public libraries as a meeting place and the debate venue. The NRK is likely to continue to be one of the most important language professionals in the country. It is therefore gratifying that the NRC has recently reorganised its internal language work and both employed a language manager and established a language contact system. It testifies that the NRK is conscious of its linguistic responsibility. In the process of improving language use and raising language awareness, dictionaries and similar font-cultural infrastructure are of great importance. Documentation of the linguistic tradition and the contemporary language in living use has both linguistic and cultural historical value. As far as the budgetary framework allows, therefore, the Ministry of Culture will continue to provide financial support for dictionary work in the years ahead. At the next turn of the year, a complete 12-volume dictionary is available, documenting the vocabulary of the New Norse Scriptures and Norwegian dialects. We need to manage the huge amount of work and investment done here, so that the value of use is optimal. In the years to come, we will invest more resources in the work of an overall dictionary for the majority target form. Here we have a good basis to build on the work completed by the Norwegian Academy's Great Dictionary. Finally, I agree with the inter-pellant that language policy is an extremely important part of cultural policy. However, it also makes a significant difference by involving so many sectors of society and activities. The Ministry of Culture has overall responsibility for a comprehensive language policy, and language policy issues will be addressed in the Grand Duchy during the four-year period. I therefore look forward to fruitful cooperation in language policy with both the cooperation parties in particular and the Stortinge in general in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2675	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we're going to have a lot of language policy debates here in the future in the United Kingdom. The blue government has said that they have some slogans related to implementing power and new ideas. Just in this field, you don't need so many new ideas, but you need a little bit more implementation. Because there were a lot of good ideas in that big message, there were a lot of good actions, but there are a lot of them that we've never heard of after the big debate was over that day. Then I'm glad that the Council of State is promising language law. That, I think, has been a good process, sail if I think that the idea that you should answer in the way you want is really bad. It's an idea that you really don't have to stress so much with. You'd rather look up some of the other ideas and implement them. And then I think what the Council of State drew up about our dictionaries is important. We now have some works related to the anniversary of the Constitution, but we also know that, for example. Norwegian Dictionary is not digitised from the letters a to h. It's too stupid. I do not know if it is a parliamentary expression – I regret it. But I don't think it's very wise for us to do a lot of look-up work today that we don't digitize and make available to people, where we've used a lot of academic resources to get it done. I think it is positive that the government announces a review of the Norwegian subject. The Norwegian language has become a topping-up of all that is not appropriate elsewhere, which means that Norwegian teachers are currently fully overworked within the curriculum they are going through and the learning objectives they are going to achieve in the Norwegian language. We would have needed a clean-up and to make it a more pure language discipline. That's what Norwegian schoolchildren also need, because it's about understanding language, and many of us need a little extra help to deal with the languages in Norwegian school. I hope that the Council of State uses them over 100 measures as an idea list. Suffering if the Left and Christian People's Party did not succeed in creating an action plan for their implementation, I hope that the Council of State will at least draw up a working list on which actions it is important to give priority to quickly raising Norwegian language – especially in 2014, which is an anniversary year for the Norwegian identity and the Norwegian Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2690	I think it's very important that we have a strong focus on language policy in the coming days. What I'm going to promise, at least, is that from the government we are going to have a high focus on the enforcement power, that we are addressing the challenges that are there, and that we are conscious of them when we deliver things to the Storting, especially with regard to this general language law, that we have looked at it, and that it is a unanimous enlargement that really wants this in the years to come. As I said in my post, it is so that the government has needed a little more time than the months we have now been working, in order to manage to come back with a timetable for when we expect to get this to. But at least I can promise that we have already put this on the agenda and are doing well in the department to launch different measures to follow up some of the concrete measures proposed in the big news, which the previous government has not been able to implement. I noticed that the interpellant in his post also mentioned this with the Nordic language. There I can also mention that it is in our government platform that we will follow up on the Nordic language work. In the letter of assignment to the Language Council, we have asked the Council to pay particular attention to Nordic language cooperation, and we will follow this closely in the time to come. Also in the case of Norwegian sign language, I understand very well that many people are impatient after having implemented a law anchoring. Here I also believe that the previous government has undoubtedly neglected. I also refer to what I said about the language law work in my main post, and that the new government will of course implement the different legal issues on an independent basis, but that we also naturally listen to what the Storting has said in this context. In this review, consideration of Norwegian sign language will also be an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2699	Thank you to the interpellant for an important debate. When the Stortinget debated the language message in 2009, it was 40 years ago. The language message gave us an overall language policy. It was precisely this overall thinking that made the language message new and groundbreaking, and a timely response to the language policy challenges we have had and have today. It is therefore interesting to hear what the new government intends to do in the field of language policy, and it is also interesting to hear how it intends to follow up the measures of the language notification that have not yet been implemented. As with most other national languages, Norwegian languages are also under pressure. Globalisation and internationalisation make it increasingly necessary to communicate in English, and the modern media community makes us increasingly exposed to English-speaking cultural impulses. The overall objective of language policy must therefore be to ensure the position of the Norwegian language as a fully-fledged language of society in Norway. The overall objective of language policy is also based on a recognition that Norwegian is divided into two written languages. These are formally assimilated but have very different experience frameworks. The added value it represents for Norwegian culture and society to have both of our writing cultures is far greater than the practical challenges it brings. However, the Norwegian language and language policy in Norway is also concerned with understanding the Scandinavian languages. For the past four years, the current prime minister has been an avid champion for us to have a common Nordic cultural television channel. It might be interesting to hear what the Minister of Culture thinks about that particular question. A coherent language policy must also aim to protect and strengthen the Sami language and hence the linguistic basis of the Sami indigenous population in Norway. Furthermore, language policy shall facilitate the protection and promotion of the languages of national minorities and Norwegian Sign Language shall have a higher official status. Work on expanding the linguistic rights of Norwegian sign language users must continue. With this background, it's interesting to hear what the government's language policy is. It's not that much that's obvious, as we see. But what we see is not good. Norwegian literature budget and Norwegian film cuts are also part of the language policy. The Minister of Culture mentions a commitment to libraries, but one often forgets to say that this effort was redispatched for other cultural purposes, including for other purposes in the library sector. So the policy now being pursued does not in any way completely calm me down. I'm not quite sure if it will help build up the position of the Norwegian language as a fully-fledged, societal language in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2716	The language is our very foremost cultural expression, and it's also an identity mark. Norwegian is, as many people have been in, at the same time a little language in the world, and it's under pressure, especially from English, but also from other languages every now and then. Part of this development is completely natural and as it has always been. At the same time, there is a need for a conscious language policy that maintains, processes and smokes Norwegian languages in the best possible way. It is agreed, as we have heard several say today, that the overall objective is that Norwegian should remain as ‘a full language of society in Norway’, as expressed both by the Council of State and by the representative of Aasrud. In integration policy, language issues are also a very important topic, and good Norwegian knowledge is the most important factor in the success of integration work. Then we've heard that the previous government presented 100 so-called priority action points. Now we see that a list of 100 priority actions in itself might lead to the opposite, just that a lot is not being prioritised. Many of the points, as we have heard, are not followed up by the previous government at all. It's kind of going to be with the good intentions. We see that despite the letter of the law, we have failed to provide a notice of target use in public service. Now it is not certain that such a statement every four years is what is needed in order to say that you have an active language policy. The submission of such a notification has not yet been decided upon. In that case, the alternative had to be to remove the legal requirement. But now the former government has left out such a message, and I doubt that it has had something in particular to say from or to what it is like with the Norwegian language anno 2014. Language and language development are not adopted in the form of law. We politicians can contribute to linguistics, we can contribute to attention, we can contribute to debate on language policy issues. Likewise, language lives its own lives. It is four and a half years since the adoption of the ‘new’ method of counting — or sixty-four — that the decision in question essentially meant. So we've talked a little bit today about the demand for answers in the same way. I doubt that there will be more users of neither new nor book goals by maintaining a requirement to receive a response from the public in the same way as a request is sent. It's debasing, it's debasing, instead of helping to simplify the public sector. The problem is little if you get an answer to the target form you wrote the letter. In many cases, we hear that the problem is to get answers at all within the deadlines. In any case, I am pleased that the Council of State is now warning that language policy needs to be reviewed in order to assess how we can follow up the points of the government platform on language in the best possible way. It is also with quite anticipation that we can look forward to the review of the entire Norwegian subject, which has been discussed by many people today. It needs to be strengthened as a language subject, which is perhaps the most important thing we can do now in the near future. It is possible to make the subject more exciting, it is possible to make the subject more interesting, and it is thus possible to increase the students' joy by giving them better language skills and sending them better rusted out into the world. School is most important. Basic language skills and good language habits are learned. Instead of 100 priority actions, I believe more in prioritizing the literacy skills of students throughout the school cycle. The language binds our society together. Good Norwegian knowledge is the key to integration. We need to rehabilitate and develop our language. We believe in knowledge and stimulation rather than messages and reports, messages and reports that have so far been written in a little accessible and bureaucratic language. An action now under way is for the authorities to communicate with the inhabitants of a single, clear and well-known Norwegian language. The Council of State underlined the importance of the need for linguistic policies and languages to go across and to permeate all policy areas. I think that's important. It is not that a language minister or a law decision solves the challenges. We all have the same responsibility here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2738	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the inter-pellant for having raised an important debate in Stortinget. The debate on Norwegian language policy and how best to take care of the Norwegian language is necessary, and the communication to which it refers gave a very good analysis of the situation and also pointed to important challenges. Even I want to point out how important it is to strengthen the position of the new snort. Formally, nine Norse and Bokmål are similar target forms, but in reality, nine Norse have more difficult conditions. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the public has a special responsibility to facilitate the development of new Norse people in a good way. The use of neo-Norwegian in general government represents a counterweight to that part of society where neo-Norwegian conditions are poorer. The Christian People's Party believes that we can't afford to let go of the linguistic and cultural diversity we have. Democracy needs mechanisms to protect minority interests. This applies not least in areas related to linguistic and cultural diversity. Language and language development apply to all parts of society. This is about democracy and knowledge of the value of language for culture and identity. The Nynosken has a majority press against him. For this reason, we need to stimulate and facilitate the development of new Norse people from the state. There is nothing more important than self-recognition and trust in our own linguistic origins in the fight for new-neurism. The same is true in the fight for the Norwegian language as a whole, regardless of target forms and language versions. We need to experience new-world theaters, new-world movies, literature, song and speech. Being proud of one's own, whether it's language or culture in a wider sense, is also the best starting point for developing tolerance and respect for other cultural expressions. It's one of the most important things we can bring on to future generations. We have to teach them to be proud of new Norse. Bookkeeping children get a lot for free, because they meet their own language everywhere. Ninnorse children don't do that. They must meet their own language in more places than in school books. They must learn that their language can be used for everything and everywhere. Children and young people spend a lot of time on different media, and the use of language in children’s and young people’s programmes has much to say for the language that children and young people use in everyday life. Therefore, it is important that children meet new - language children in children’s programs on television and on radio. Public broadcasters have a clear responsibility to promote linguistic diversity also in the context of children and young people. And then the interpellant was also in sign language. It is important to safeguard the interests of the deaf in society. It is important that sign language is recognised as a full language. For many, it is difficult to obtain sufficient information from society around it in the same way that everyone else gets. Texturing and interpretation requirements for digital television media are important. Subtitles on cinema are also important for many people to feel included in the cultural experience. That's why it's a paradox that we actually have a lot of good Norwegian movies that go around the country and the beach, but that very many people don't get the pleasure of experiencing because they can't hear what's being said, and because it's not being texted. This also applies, of course, to point of view. There are major challenges to it, and many good measures are needed here. No one wants to be excluded. That's why we have to fight for everyone to be included. This also applies not least when it comes to language policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2761	For those who received the ‘Hunting Norway’ programme at the NRK on Sunday, it is obvious that the language debate in Norway has calmed down a few to three spots. We'll all be happy for that. Even though I have a strong commitment to language issues in general and the new Norway in particular, I'm glad that I can let that commitment run out in this hall instead of through street fight with the goal bullying. It's been a long time since 12,000 attackers gathered outside the Norwegian Theatre in 1913 to scoop out and fight with the target people, who dared to put Jeppe up on the mountain in its own way. But still, the new Norse is a minority language that is partially countered by the majority, perhaps not as much through direct hostility as through the somewhat self-enhancing dominance that a plural language will naturally have in a small language community such as the Norwegian. In terms of objectives and considerations, it was clearly established that in certain cases a protection of their condition requires positive special treatment. This, in addition to the important and self-evident non-discrimination contained in the rules on target use in the country and in the secondary education of the school, is an important basis for the further development of our two official writing languages on a side-by-side basis. In terms of objectives and considerations, it was clearly established that: ‘... for all public actions and policy-making with a linguistic aspect, explicit consideration shall be given to how this can be designed so that it also takes into account the newnorm and the needs of new drug users. The principle must be anchored as part of a cross-sectoral language policy, so that the assessment of the neural perspective is not overlooked.’ I hope the Minister of Culture has read that part of the big message very carefully. Current things from the past few days can easily indicate that she should read it again. In the last month, there has been a lot of discussion about a proposal that could potentially affect neo-Norwegian font production disproportionately, i.e. the proposed changes to the conversion of the press support. Half of the papers that would have been framed are nynorms. Fortunately, the government has gone back on that proposal, but I still hope that the Council of State will have the words from Goals and Meaning in the further work, etc. with new rules for press support. In the big news we are discussing today, there are many good proposals for action to strengthen newnorth. Unfortunately, many of them have not been followed up at all. Some of the points should still be on the Council's work list, for example. profiling neo-Norwegian languages and culture among children and young people, e.g. within the cultural school system, to intensify efforts to meet the requirement of at least 25 pst. Newly, also on state websites on the Internet, and to ensure that all bodies that come under the target laws adhere to a linguistic competence plan and staff who ensure a high level of innovative competence. That's three important points. So to a point from the message that may be a little bit difficult for the council itself to follow up, but that rather gets to go as an appeal to it for the occasion of the rather slippery press release, or perhaps rather to the lodge on the other side, where it is also its representative with a certain background from the printed national press, and it's about giving a more significant opportunity to use the editorial space of the national newspapers. This is not meant to impose a certain percentage, but simply as a pious desire for journalists working in national newspapers to write on the target they can best, and which is closest to the heart. Our empire consists of about 13 pst. Nino users, but when they open the largest newspapers, they are met by 100 pst. book goals — uncertain for what reason. It is no secret that the government parties and the Left have a somewhat different view of the linguistic freedom and uniformity of Norway in 2014, and the view of the position of the new Norway in society is still something that separates the Left and the Council of State from its party, as it has separated us since the Jamstelling Decision in this Chamber in 1885. Fortunately, there is little doubt as to which way the bulk of the population is tilting, and I hope that the Council of State in its work of following up the goal and meaning will have a special eye for the corps of the new Norway. It's in everyone's interest. And to underline that, I will end by quoting a previous Young Left Leader – you should do that once in a while – simply Ottar Grepstad: ‘The new Norwegian font culture has created Norway and expanded Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2788	First, I want to thank the interpellant for taking up a very important matter, because language is also power. There have been references in several of the articles to the struggle to speak the language that you have learned as a child, whether it is a bookcase or a nine-story or another dialect. It's been important. After all, the fight for the new Norway is going on all the time and is an important part of the identity we have as a nation. It has even recently been language programmes on Norwegian television, on the NRK, where the phenomenon of knotting – and now I am nodding – has been an important issue, and it shows that there are also a lot of feelings about the language. Language is important. It is also important, as many people have pointed out, that sign language must be familiar with other languages, and that different types of interpretation for those with different types of disability, who have their own languages, are also preserved. I have allowed myself to address the presidency in order to be able to interpret the debates that are streamed from here. They should be, because everyone should have access to these debates from a linguistic standpoint – and of course from a democratic point of view – because it is important. Several have been involved in initial language training. I've been working in kindergarten for 17 years. Children learn language from the time they are born. They learn language long before they start talking. It is very important that kids are in a nursery where there is a high level of competence in language, and that the language is one of the most important tools you have there, but it is completely possible to do this with toys. Then it's incredibly important that children who have a different mother tongue come very early in kindergarten. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we can develop this with free core time in kindergarten for children who have a different native language. And there's no conflict between learning two languages and having one native language, but it can be a conflict if we have a debate that's about not so important that you learn your mother tongue, just learning Norwegian, because it's very important for language development that we learn our mother tongue well. Therefore, it must be tolerated that immigrants teach their children their native language, but we must ensure that these children come to kindergarten early, and that those who meet a competent language environment. So I'm also very concerned that children use the media a lot. I've been very happy to see that a lot of children's programs now actually use neo-Norwegian as language form, and I've seen my own grandchildren that it actually makes them realize new Norse from the time they're tiny, sail if no one in their community speaks neo-Norwegian. That's why it's important that we stimulate it. Libraries are extremely important in language policy. That is why they must be strengthened. Film is incredibly important in language policy. What we do in these areas is whether we can take care of the Norwegian language, sail if, of course, it's developing all the time. The fact that a language evolves, we don't have to look at it as something unilaterally negative, it's natural, but I've noticed – and I hope I haven't said that sail here now – that we're still talking about having "focus on" things and "relative to". These are, as far as I can see, formulations that have crept into the Norwegian language from English, because there is no natural Norwegian language. But we're saying it all the time. Maybe we should stop doing that. Maybe the language gets better then. Finally to the press support. It's incredibly important that we manage to have a diversity of languages. Therefore, SV is totally opposed to cutting the support for the press, both because it limits the diversity of opinions and because it will limit the diversity of languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2804	Language policy is an important part of our cultural policy. It is an important part of our identity and stands out as involving many in society, and many sectors and activities. The majority has the overall responsibility for a comprehensive language policy. I am pleased that the Council of State has given such clear signals here today, and that there is such a great consensus that we want to develop and work on this cooperation in language policy. It seems there is a great deal of consensus across the parties on the Stortinget. The Nordic languages are a concept that someone has used. We who travel a little bit in Scandinavia, and see that we can actually talk across, however, experience that many people add to English or try to understand themselves in other ways. I'm sorry about that. So saying that you want to develop the Norwegian language cooperation in Scandinavia and call it the Nordic languages, I think it's positive. What's extra happy is that you see TV programs that bring this up with our dialects. That's interesting. I don't know if it's just interesting for us old people, I think it can also get young people, when you find nuances and new words that you think are interesting and get a different understanding. What I also experience every day is the discussion about who is talking about side goals, and then we discuss it with a glimpse in the eye. The new Norwegian speakers at Stortinget claim that we are the ones who come from the East and Oslo areas – South Norway – who speak side goals. There is a nice discussion around the lunch table in Stortinget, and it helps to develop and make us aware of language policy. I see, as I said at the outset, that language is important – a good Norwegian language in Norway. It builds our society, it builds identity, and it's important that we take care of it for the future. If we look back, we also see that it has been an important historical support from early times. Not least when we now have a 200th anniversary – from 1814 – we see that our language has been of great importance. But it is also important that we allow the Norwegian language to develop – that we do not restrict it in any way, but that it has a natural development. Language has evolved. We see TV shows, and we see old debates here from Stortinget – then they had a completely different language. We're not going back that far to see that they talked differently in this room not many years ago. It's obvious that we're evolving. The new generation wants the Progress Party and the sitting government to develop, but that it should be an optional side goal – or an optional main goal – for those who want it. I am happy and I think it is great that we can now look at language policy, not with new eyes, but that we can now put it on the agenda again and bring forward old points that have been dusted down in the last few years with the former government – that we can now discuss them and develop our language naturally, as we wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2825	Thank you very much for the debate. I'm really glad that almost all of the parties participated. I hope it's an accident at work that the Center Party didn't do it, because I think it's important that everyone shows commitment in terms of how we take care of the Norwegian language. The right representative said that it was easiest and cheapest that everyone got a response to the case manager's case. Language policy is not about the simplest and cheapest. The easiest and cheapest enough was that we had all learned to write English really early and could write it really well. Then we could have used it as a writing language in Norway. I think it would have been easiest and cheapest. We could recruit case handlers from all over the planet almost if we chose a large language as our working language. All the major, important language policy decisions taken in this Chamber have not been aimed at being the simplest and the cheapest, but in fact how to facilitate, as politicians, the provision of a language such as Norwegian. I don't think Norwegian is threatened. I think Norwegian has a lot of possibilities. The fact that so many will learn Norwegian, both those who come to Norway and around the world, is a warning about this. We have a lot of instruments that are important. Press support is important precisely to keep up the marginalised media that also communicate in other languages, but it is also important to bring new language forms into new platforms. It's important to have a library bet on properly, not just in words. It's important that we get our dictionaries up to go, and that they are digitized. It is important that we get a new language law, and that we have a strengthened language council that can be the political instrument for developing language policy in Norway, as well as the parties. And it's important that we take care of the marginalized languages that also have rights, like Sami. Then I mean all kinds of Sami, because it's not like there's only one language – I myself come from the southern Sami region and know how demanding it is to take care of the southern Sami part – but also sign language. Then languages are important for the preservation of languages both as languages and as important cultural carriers. My challenge to government is two points. Firstly, do not be as fragmented in language policy as it can be in the government statement. Have more totality. The second challenge is to accept all the decisions that this room put to its heart in 2009, but that we have seen very little in practical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2838	I thank everyone for a good debate and thank you again for taking up a very important subject area. It is important that there is a broad consensus on the importance of focusing on language policy in the coming years. So some brief comments on some of the recordings that have come: first, I do not share the concern of the representative Rigmor Aasrud about too little involvement in the libraries. I believe that we have strengthened the libraries in new ways in relation to what the previous government did, and we will also focus on them in the time to come. When it comes to newspapers and using them as a language-policy tool, I think it's very important that we also stress that it's up to the newspapers themselves to choose which language they really want to use. It was the representative of Aasrud who was also involved with Nordic television. It has been assessed several times, without any mention being made of it. I think it might be more important to work through the existing broadcasts. There is already a good cooperation that I think it is possible to further develop even in the time to come. In this respect, the issue of both language collection management and future dictionary work is the subject of an investigation into the Language Council, and we are awaiting a report to be available around 1 March. I expect that when that report comes, it will of course be the basis for a thorough debate and review in the ministry. I also believe that after that report we will have a better overview of the case complex, so we will consider what is the basis for doing something about it. I may find it necessary to comment on the need for specific measures to support the development of new Norse, which is the least widely used target form. I believe that for Norwegian culture and social life it is enriching that we have two Norwegian writing cultures and two Norwegian writing languages in living use. That's why it's important that we deal with the situation so that each of us experiences it just like this, like a enrichment, and not like an irritating moment or a threat. We recognise that there is a need for specific measures to strengthen the least-used target form, and to ensure that as many as possible neo-Norwegian students are stuck to their main goal throughout the school cycle — even when they get into work and occupation. However, we are also concerned that this needs to be done as far as possible through incentives and support measures, and as far as possible through measures that may be coercive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2853	So the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2867	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2881	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2887	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2930	It is first votered over I, § 78 new eighth paragraph of the setting. SV has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2945	Then the rest of the I and the II in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2955	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e2965	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e3018	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e3028	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e3082	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting during the spring session, explaining which countries would not be able to receive defence material from Norway as a result of the majority comments on human rights in the inner. [[2013-2014]] 103 S
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e3125	In Case No: 7 and 8 no voting theme is available
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e3690	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e3700	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e3738	There is no voting theme in case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Voting in Case No 12 and 13
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e3744	Case No. 12 and 13 are the second processing of laws and apply to legislative acts 36 and 37. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-25.ana.ud1852e3804	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? That hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
