ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e65	Representatives Kari Henriksen, Sverre Myrli, Anders B. Werp, Anette Trettebergstien, Tor André Johnsen, Tone Mereete Søndesterud, Kenneth Svendsen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Bjørn Lødemel, Kristian Norheim and Tom E. B. Holthe, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Elin Rodum Agdestein, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Svein Roald Hansen, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Irene Johansen, Hans Andreas Limi, Jørund Rytman and Geir S. Tuskedal on leave from 25 March to 27 March, all to attend the meeting of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Reykjavik of the Left-wing Group on welfare leave for the representative Ola Elvesuen on 25 and 26 March from the Workers' Party Group on leave for the representative Sonja Mandt from 26 March to 28 March to attend the working group of the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Conference in Tromsø Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Rogaland County, Marie Breek, has a maternity leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative of Geir S. Tuskedal. From the first alternate of Oslo, Ingunn Gjerstad, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, for welfare reasons. From the first representative of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Gunnar Viken, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Elin Rodum Agdestein due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Anette C. ElsethFor Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal BrataasFor Hedmark County: Rangdi Wetterhus KrogstadFor Oslo: Olivia Corso Salles and Guri MelbyFor Rogaland County: Per Kåre FossFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Erik FøanFor Østfold County: Wenche Olsen and Fredrik BjørnebeckFor Vestfold County: Steinar Gullvåg 26.-27. March
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e211	Anette C. Elseth, Tone Heimdal Brataas, Rangdi Weatherhouse Krogstad, Olivia Corso Salles, Guri Melby, Per Kåre Foss, Erik Fløan, Wenche Olsen and Fredrik Björnebeck are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e219	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e222	I will, on behalf of myself, Torgeir Micaelsen and Lise Christoffersen, present representative proposals for upgrading and reopening the Steinberg station in Buskerud, as planned in December 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e227	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e241	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e255	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e267	In the heart of Europe, we are today confronted with serious violations of the fundamental principles of international law and a policy of power that belongs to another time. Let me be quite clear what we are now witnessing: for the first time since World War II, a European state with power has annexed part of a neighbouring country. We are in a new phase in Russia's relations with the outside world. During last week's ceremony in the Kremlin, Russia's president signed a treaty incorporating Crimea and the city of Sevastopol into the Russian Federation. This occurred after Russia had secured full military control over the Ukrainian peninsula and after a referendum that violates both Ukrainian law and international law. Like our allies and partners in NATO and the EU, Norway has condemned Russia’s approach. In international law, no State has the right to intervene with other armed states, through coercion and other improper interference, whether they do so themselves or through support to local actors. Russia justifies its actions with the need to protect Russian-speaking people outside its borders. They also rely on historical rights. There are no independent reports of abuses against Russian-speaking minorities in Crimea or Eastern Ukraine. If Russia really believes that there is a large-scale infringement, it should have used the mechanisms established in view of such situations, within the framework of the UN, the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE. Russia has not. The situation of minorities is a challenge in many countries, including Ukraine. Here, Ukrainian authorities have a great responsibility. I brought this up with the President-in-Office when the Finnish Minister for Foreign Affairs and I recently visited Kiev. The UN Charter prohibits the use or threat of armed power against the territorial integrity and political independence of another State. Furthermore, the UN Charter prohibits interference in the internal affairs of another country. Here we have to be clear. The situation in Ukraine has not justified any derogation from those two prohibitions. In recent weeks, the international community has tried to bring Russia into a dialogue on a peaceful solution to the conflict. Russia has also been clearly informed that acts of international law must have consequences. Russia is now isolated. It was confirmed when the UN Security Council addressed the crisis in Ukraine. Unfortunately, Russian authorities have not changed their course. There is still cause for concern about Russia’s further approach to Ukraine. Therefore, the EU, the United States and other countries have adopted further restrictive measures. Norway has concluded on EU action and is following up decisions in NATO. In the current crisis, it is essential that we show solidarity with our allies in NATO and coordinate with our partners in the European Union. NATO emphasises the need for a political solution and at the same time has taken steps to reassure allies who feel their security threatened. NATO also looks at how cooperation with Ukraine can be strengthened. There must be no doubt about our attitude to the fact that a large country, contrary to international law, annexes parts of the territory of a smaller country. This crisis concerns us all, but is not, however, a bilateral issue between Norway and Russia. It is in Norway's interest to continue working with Russia on challenges we can only find solutions to jointly, within responsible resource management, environmental protection and the economy. Norway wants to continue the good contact that already exists between our two peoples — the one that has led to more open borders and greater mutual understanding, not least in the north. We still have to be a predictable neighbour with a consistent bilateral policy, but it has to be based on international law. In a situation where a great power challenges the established world order, we must call around our common values. We must learn lessons from the 20th century, its disasters, but also its animal-bought innovations. In the 21st century, the world is more than ever characterized by interdependence and vulnerability. No country can, in the long term, secure the well-being of its own citizens or safeguard its long-term interests by disregarding international law. That is why, today, states are formulating their foreign policy and promoting their interests through international cooperation and coordination. In a globalised and closely interwoven world, more and more countries are taking a win-win perspective in their approach to foreign policy. They realize that increasing trade and wealth benefit everyone. Some are stuck in a view of international politics as a zero-sum game. But a gain for others does not necessarily involve a loss for yourself. It's usually the opposite. Like the United Nations, the establishment of NATO was an invaluable building block in the multilateral architecture that was built after World War II. NATO has ensured peace and freedom in Europe. The most successful alliance in history will continue to be the cornerstone of our security policy. The relationship between the United States and Norway is closer than ever, and the United States remains our most important ally. We have again been reminded of the need to have a strong and robust defence. In NATO, there are a few countries that have increased the defence budget. Norway is among them. Norway will continue to contribute to the preservation of NATO’s defence capabilities and further strengthen the political power of the alliance. At the NATO summit in Wales in September, we will together make the alliance better equipped to meet the challenges of the future. NATO has shown impressive adaptability in changing security policy landscapes. At the same time, the core functions exist. At the end of the year, the aim is to ensure the security of the population of the Member States and to contribute to the stability of the alliance's environment. In recent years, the Nordic countries have strengthened foreign and defence cooperation. The February air surveillance mission in Iceland was a milestone. This cooperation is highlighted in the alliance as an example of excellent partnership work. For Norway, NATO membership has been a prerequisite for developing a good neighbourhood with Russia. The alliance has strengthened stability in the north by giving weight to our own capacity and effort. Russia has been bordering NATO in the north since 1949. This is Russia's most peaceful border. Our security policy challenges are becoming increasingly complex and unpredictable. The attack on the In Amenas plant in Algeria was a tragic reminder of the link between weak states, crime, terrorism and religious fanaticism. That's why we're starting work on improving the overview of these threats and making suggestions on how we can meet them. This will also include challenges related to piracy and digital threats. The international legal order is an invisible but essential architecture. We'll take it most often for granted. However, it is the one that provides framework conditions, predictability and the ability to have confidence in the development of solutions for the future. We don't often reflect enough on such international rules. However, they are necessary prerequisites for managing marine resource use, protecting the natural environment, aviation, extensive trade in goods and digital commerce, complex financial and investment operations, but also cross-border law enforcement in response to international terrorist threats. We adhere to common rules to more effectively meet collective challenges where the individual state is otherwise powerless. We agree to common rules because it's right, but also because it benefits our own interests. This applies not only to small and medium-sized countries but also to large countries. Therefore, we must ring the ring of values and the world order in which we believe. It is based on the principle that we achieve the most well-being for our citizens when we cooperate and trade with other countries and lay the foundations of the United Nations and its binding international rights. Norway’s well-being had not been possible without an international legal order and a functioning global trade. According to the World Trade Organisation, the real value of global trade has been eightfold since 1970. Development is unparalleled. It has established the interdependence and destiny between nations. The relationship with the rest of the world has become at least eight times more important. International legal order and robust multilateral systems can help us through acute and long-term crises. And we have to be flexible enough to adapt the systems to a changing world. Just look at the global economic crisis that arose after Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy in 2008. Financial markets were close to collapse. The lifeblood of the global economy was affected. World trade fell by 12 p.m. Nevertheless, the financial crisis became a recession, not a depression as in the 1930s. At that time world trade fell by 50 pst. in a few years, and global gross domestic product fell by 25 pst. We avoided a new depression because the countries continued to trade with each other. In addition, we agreed on unconventional instruments to stimulate both financial and monetary policy. The international trading system consisted of testing as a bulwark against increased protectionism and nationalism. A successful Doha round will make a significant contribution to ensuring global economic growth in the coming years. Such growth is necessary in order to combat poverty and to create the new 600 million jobs that the International Labour Organisation (ILO) says need to be put in place by 2020. Everyone has to contribute to ensure that we get into the Doha Development Round. Norway, too, must be willing to give to achieve something. This is precisely why the government wants a shift in the pace of promoting global trade. We will intensify efforts to reach agreement on a global trade agreement. The agreement at the WTO meeting in Bali before Christmas opens up the possibility of resuming negotiations on the most difficult issues in the Doha Round. Against this background, the government has started work on a communication to the United Kingdom on the importance of an offensive policy on globalisation and free trade. Globalisation characterised by increased trade and technology development has reduced the gap between the poor and the rich part of the world. But in many countries, differences have increased. The wages and salaries of parts of the middle class have stood still. An inclusive growth that creates jobs, and that benefits everyone, is crucial to the legitimacy of our economic system. The opposite increases the risk of social unrest, while at the same time weakening social mobility. Norway contributes to reducing social and economic disparities globally through our high level of assistance and not least through the new government’s commitment to education. In Europe, we contribute through EEA funds, amounting to about 3 billion. kr annually from 2009 to 2014. In Greece, some of the EEA funds are now being used to help families in crisis. The government will increase the investment in economic diplomacy. The EEAS shall promote Norwegian commercial interests. Today there are about 250,000 employees in Norwegian companies abroad. There are as many of them as in the entire Norwegian mainland industry together. Only in Africa has the number of employees in Norwegian companies tripled in three years. Companies that grow out a lot are also growing at home – for example: Telenor. It is not necessarily the case that enterprises that establish abroad put their businesses at home. Oftentimes are the opposite. The world's five largest economies are today the United States, China, Japan, Germany and France. Within ten years, India and Brazil are likely to pass Germany and France. Seven of the ten fastest growing economies last year were African. Global growth, and not least the growth in global demand, comes primarily in markets that are more demanding than our traditional trading partners, the so-called emerging economies. This requires in particular the efforts of our foreign service. Against this hindrance, the government will implement a change of pace in promoting Norwegian business interests internationally. Norway will also strengthen its diplomatic presence in these emerging economies. The EEAS shall promote Norwegian business interests in a strategic and more targeted and holistic manner. The use of the instrument shall be better coordinated with the needs of industry. Innovation in Norway at home needs to be reflected in the work at outdoor stations. That is why we are also strengthening the business life initiative in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by bringing together the work on nutrition promotion, economic diplomacy, energy and a forward-looking development policy. It is important for our competitiveness that Norwegian companies succeed in new markets, but also in those markets that are already the most important for us. More than 70 pst. of our foreign trade is with EU countries. Trade, culture, history and values bind us together. That'll be the way it'll be in the foreseeable future. The relationship with Europe and the EEA Agreement is of fundamental importance and is a long way off the boundaries between domestic and foreign policies. Norwegian businesses want and need common European legislation, with a level playing field. In the past, we need to become more committed and more deeply involved in the EU legislative process. We need to exploit the opportunities that arise when Europe rises economically – not only in terms of trade and business, but also in the cultural field, in tourism, education, research and a number of other areas. Coordination of EU work is essential for the best interests of Norwegian citizens, businesses and municipalities. The Government therefore has its own State Council on EEA matters and relations with the EU. State Council Vidar Helgesen and I are working closely together on our relationship with Europe. As a result of the Schengen cooperation, the Mediterranean is just as much our frontier sea as Skagerrak. Europe's neighbourhood is our neighborhood. It is in our interest that the countries of the Middle East and North Africa are stable and provide their inhabitants with increased financial opportunities. The government has initiated the active involvement of Norway in EU Mediterranean policies, such as: aim to prevent disasters such as those we saw on the island of Lampedusa last fall. Norwegian assistance shall contribute to stability, democracy, human rights and inclusive economic development in North Africa and Sahel. This will enable development, foreign and European policies to move in the same direction. This is how we take a common European responsibility with our neighbours. State Council Helgesen will present its own statement to the European Parliament on EU and EEA matters at the end of May. An overall policy for the northern regions was raised by the Government of Bondevik II in St.meld. 30 for 2004–2005 Options and challenges in the north. It was further developed by the Stoltenberg II government. Let's do another step. As the shift of power turns east and south, more and more eyes come up north. During the last year, several new and important countries have been listed as observers in Arctic Councils. Norway wishes to integrate and develop a role for observers in the Council’s work. Norway cooperates closely with the Presidency of the Arctic Council and also wishes to cooperate closely with the United States on their upcoming Presidency in 2015-2017. We will ensure sustainable management of the environment and resources in the north, strengthen knowledge of the changes taking place in the Arctic, and facilitate increased business activity. The law of the sea is one of several examples of a legal framework that benefits both international stability and our economic interests. Law of the sea defines the prerequisites for the specific rights and obligations of coastal States. Together with the other coastal states in the north, Norway is committed to being ahead of development and to taking responsibility for new activity in the areas under safe and predictable conditions. In the north, domestic and foreign policies meet. We have to be the leader of knowledge in the north. We need to provide better infrastructure. We are strengthening preparedness in terms of rescue and environmental and oil protection. And we need to ensure efficient and predictable planning processes, so that good nutrition projects can be realised, respecting existing consultation arrangements with Sami interests. Since World War II, we have witnessed the strengthening of global and European human rights through the development of institutions that contribute to the promotion of human dignity and the conditions for democracy, openness and participation. Human rights, however, are under increasing pressure in several countries – not only in the face of horrendous violations against the civilian population in Syria and in other conflicts, but also in the knowledge, among others. violations of freedom of expression, freedom of association and assembly and the prohibition of discrimination against religious and sexual minorities in several countries. We cannot take the protection of human rights for granted. That is why it is important in our foreign policy to defend human rights. We must do that by further developing strategic alliances across regions and civil society. This implies the need for a change of pace in foreign policy to respond to increased pressures threatening human rights. The Government will therefore promote its own communication on the increasing importance of human rights in the formulation of foreign and development policy. It was 15 years since the last such announcement was made to Stortinget. We shall contribute to strengthening women's right to participation and real influence in political processes and social life and to combating discrimination in legislation and practice. We're going to continue the targeted work against the death penalty. We must be long-term and oriented towards concrete results. We can never accept attempts to relativize human rights. Authorities shall not be able to circumvent human rights by reference to traditional values, national sovereignty and non-interference principles. This breaks down with decisions taken both in the UN and in different regional forums. Human rights are hard-pressed rights. The most central UN conventions on human rights are widely accepted and ratified by an overwhelming majority of the world's countries. Human rights are one of the three main pillars of the UN. Then it is unsustainable to, for example, The High Commissioner for Human Rights shall be assigned only 3 pst. by the United Nations total budget. The government will increase support for the High Commissioner when we start negotiations on our contribution for a new three-year period. We are also responsible for following up our own obligations. I will meet at the land hearing of Norway at the UN Human Rights Council in April, and I am pleased that one is now on the right track to set up a new national human rights institution under the Storting. It sends a clear and clear signal. We're living in a geopolitical break-up. The economic growth of other parts of the world causes significant global shifts in power. Economic and political influence is shifting southwards and eastwards. In 1980, the US economy was ten times that of China. 30 years later, the ‘only’ is twice as large. The financial crisis reinforced this trend. While China's economy has grown by 50 pst. Since 2008, most of Europe has remained silent. The global shift in power shows that there is a link between economic development and who increases its political influence — and who is slowing down. China is estimated to pass the United States as the world's largest economy once between 2020 and 2030. Although economic power increases political influence, I would warn against believing that we have a whole new world order. The main prerequisite for preserving the existing world order is not that the relative strength relationship between countries is constant, but that everyone follows international law and participates in established cooperation structures. The United States will remain the world's most influential state for a long time to come. No nation has a political, economic, military, technological and scientific weight similar to that of the United States. In addition, the United States has a network of allies and partners, woven together by values and history. There is little doubt that two nations will stand out clearly in political, economic and military strength: the United States and China. But this doesn't mean we're going back to the cold war zero-sum game between two superpowers. When the map is new, we also have to have new glasses to interpret it correctly. The interdependence between the United States and China stands in the way of a repetition of the two-part world with which most of us grew up. The United States and China are competitors, but one cannot succeed if the other fails. Increased trade and globalisation have brought them together in a win-win relationship. China’s well-being depends on exports to western markets, just as the world economy will stagnate without growth in China. The image of a world with two centres of power is further balanced by the emergence of other powers. In the light of the shift of power, the government will strengthen its diplomatic presence in and cooperate with the emerging economies, not only in Asia, but also in Africa and Latin America. We are increasing our economic relations, concluding trade agreements and supporting Norwegian companies that want to invest in these regions. Politically, we link more closely to a number of central countries and to regional organisations with increasing influence, such as ASEAN in Asia, which establishes its own internal market in 2015, and the African Union, which plays an increasingly central role in Africa. We support the emergence of regional cooperation and conflict resolution mechanisms in places where such structures have been weak. We cannot take for granted that all the emerging economies fully share our political ideas. Then it is our duty to uphold established driving rules for cooperation and hard-pressed universal human rights. It's about ensuring that new powers slip into an existing world order, instead of creating a new one. Norway wants a close and good relationship with China. The government is therefore placing a significant emphasis on restoring political dialogue with China. Resumption of broad cooperation is both in Norwegian and in Chinese interest. We need to be aware that there are no simple solutions in this case. Normalisation of the ratio may still take time. The government's development and foreign policy shall contribute to increased democratisation, the promotion of human rights and actions that bring people out of poverty. We know that trade, investment and industrial development are creating growth and lasting change. That is why we are placing increased emphasis on results and cooperation with business. Without a strong private sector with small and medium-sized enterprises there will be no development. Countries themselves need to lay the foundations for developing from developing countries to middle-income countries. Today, Norwegian aid is spread across 112 countries and a number of thematic areas. A stronger concentration makes assistance more effective. This has also been pointed out by the OECD in its review of Norwegian aid. A first step in such a conversion comes in next year's budget. Our overall ambition is to help eradicate all extreme poverty. Over 1 billion people have to do less than $1.25 a day. But for the first time in history, it is possible to imagine a world without extreme poverty. From 1990 to 2010, the proportion of the extremely poor has been halved. At the same time, we have had a huge population growth. Since 1990 we have become 1.7 billion more people on earth. There are more people than there were on Earth in 1900. So we're able to reduce poverty, while the world's population has increased sharply. According to the UN, by 2050 there will be almost 10 billion people on earth. Over the next 15 years, demand for food, water and energy will increase by 35, 40 and 50 pst, respectively. When 780 million people today lack access to clean water, when one third of the world's population lacks access to sanitation solutions, and when 1.2 billion people lack access to electricity, it is our common task to find good solutions. Sustainable poverty reduction requires inclusive economic growth, increased trade, innovation and entrepreneurship – and that we exploit the countless opportunities offered by new technologies. We're going to help the world community achieve the ambitious goals we've set. When the president of the United States spoke in Ghana’s parliament, he told of his father, who grew up as a guest in a village in Kenya. When Obama was born, Kenya's economy was larger than South Korea's. Today, South Korea's economy is 27 times larger than Kenya's. Bad governance, war and conflict, and the lack of health and education services have long hampered Africa’s development. Education is a prerequisite for development. Poverty in low-income countries could have been reduced by 12 pst. if all the kids could read and write. Today, there are over 50 million children in the world without schooling. This is a serious obstacle to development. Norway shall take a global lead in the work of education. We will give priority to education for girls. Girls who receive education, get married later, have children later, have more opportunity to get a job and get better health for themselves and their own children. The government will present a message to the Stortinget that concreteises the increased effort for education. The Prime Minister's commitment to the UN Secretary-General's group of drivers for the Millennium Goals is important. The strength of the Millennium Development Goals is that the results are measurable and show that they are useful. Now we are working to set new ambitious targets after 2015. We prioritise education, health, energy, equality and good governance. International efforts are being made to provide the world’s population with modern energy and to combat ‘energy poverty’. Norway will play a leading role in ensuring sustainable energy for all. Sustainable energy is needed to meet the increasing energy demand and to slow down the global temperature increase. Three areas are high on the agenda: increased access to energy, increased energy efficiency and increased share of renewable energy. It is not just increased trade that has strengthened the self-interest of countries in commitment cooperation. The same applies to cross-border challenges such as climate noise and global health challenges. Climate change has serious consequences for health, food production and access to clean water, especially for vulnerable and poor people. Negotiations towards the Paris climate summit in December 2015 are entering a crucial stage. The world needs a new and ambitious climate agreement covering all countries, which can help the most vulnerable countries to improve climate change resilience. If we're going to be able to meet the 2-degree target, we're going to have to reverse the global emission trend. Climate adaptation and disaster prevention need to reduce the risk of disease, conflict and major economic losses. Norway will work to scale up international climate funding – from public, private and innovative sources of funding. We will help to make funding more efficient and tailored to the needs of developing countries. It is far more reasonable to act now than to wait to repair the consequences of climate change later. Acute crises often dominate the foreign policy debate. In February, I presented the situation in Syria and South Sudan. War and conflict can bring a society back into development in a short period of time. Nowhere is it as obvious as in Syria. 50 pst. GDP has disappeared in three years with civil war. Civil war has killed 135,000 people. 10,000 of them are children. 9.3 million acids need food, medicine and healthcare. Half of the 9.3 million are children. The need for a humanitarian approach is urgent. Refusing humanitarian access is contrary to the most basic humanitarian principles, and it is almost impossible to believe that such a thing could happen in the 21st century. The civilian population suffers from the steep attitude of the parties and the inability of international society to find a political solution. The political negotiations under the leadership of Lakhdar Brahimi have stopped. The regime is making progress militarily, and the surface conflict is complicated. The conflict is becoming increasingly regionalised. We must be prepared for the long-term crisis in Syria. Norway is the sixth largest humanitarian donor to Syria and neighbouring countries. The government will continue Norway’s strong humanitarian efforts. We will seek to contribute to the resumption of political negotiations. Norway cooperates with Denmark in the removal and destruction of Syrian chemical weapons. After the shipments last Friday, we now expect 49 pst. of the chemicals are out of Syria. There's a hurry to get the rest out. We have to prevent Assad from using chemical weapons, and it is also essential to prevent anyone else from grasping them. Norway has a strong commitment in the Middle East. At the request of the parties, we will continue to lead the coordination of assistance to Palestine in the Giverland Group. Negotiations between Israel and the PLO are in a critical phase. After President Obama met Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas, the distance between the parties is still great. We support the Americans in their work. A two-state solution must be in place very quickly, based on the boundaries before 1967. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is one of the greatest threats to our security. The world leaders are just now gathered in The Hague for the summit on nuclear safety. Prime Minister Solberg will stress here the need to strengthen the overall framework of international law relating to nuclear safety, the dissemination of nuclear material and nuclear terrorism. North Korea and Iran's nuclear programmes are still giving rise to the most serious concern. As far as Iran is concerned, last November's interim agreement between Iran and the EU, China, Russia and the United States was a step in the right direction. We expect Iran to continue to implement what they have undertaken to do. It is essential that the further negotiations end in a long-term, comprehensive agreement ensuring that Iran's nuclear programme is exclusively peaceful. A final clarification of Iran’s nuclear programmes will facilitate a completely different political and economic dynamic between Iran and the world community. Afghanistan is facing a crucial stage in its development. It is important that the elections on 5 April are carried out in a credible way. Security will be a challenge. Norway is committed to providing civil assistance, and we make clear commitments to the recipients. The transfer of security responsibilities from NATO to the Afghans has gone according to plan. ISAF is now only playing a supporting role. Norway assesses in line with other NATO countries how we may be able to contribute further. The Minister of Defence and I have asked the Presidentship of the Stortinge to make our own statement on Afghanistan in June. Norway has an open economy and extensive foreign trade. Our energy and competence are in demand, and our financial weight makes Norway visible globally. We actively contribute to multilateral work. Norway shall continue to contribute to peace and reconciliation where we have special conditions and are wanted by the parties, such as: in Colombia. Our main task is to promote Norwegian interests. A solid value base provides credibility to the policy of interest. Respect for international law, human rights and commitment to cooperation with others are the premise to pursue a responsible policy. The government follows the long line in Norwegian foreign policy on Norway’s commitment to a strong and more effective UN – not because the UN is perfect, but because there is no alternative to multilateral solutions. We know the price the civilian population pays if not the United Nations stands united and takes responsibility. In 1814 the founding fathers of Eidsvoll shattered a pinch of principles that became crucial for the future government of the country. The three most important of them are today in the Basic Law chapter classification: the rule of peoples' rule, the principle of power distribution and fundamental rights. It is in this tradition that we place democracy, good governance and human rights high on our foreign policy agenda. These are the carrying values that underlie our commitment. Our security is ensured through our community of values with Europe and the United States. That's why we maintain a robust national defence in alliance with NATO. Our economy is strengthened by a freer world trade. That is why we are facilitating inclusive, sustainable and job-creating growth at home and abroad. Our future depends on a strong international legal order. That is why we support international law, the UN and the multilateral system, and react when the rules are broken. We need to address the challenges, exploit the opportunities and prioritise the efforts of a changing world. We continue the best traditions of Norwegian foreign policy, and set new ambitious goals that strengthen our growth and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e500	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e514	At the request of the Presidency, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e519	The proposal of the representatives of the Left briefly states that those who seek out the Storting on behalf of themselves or others in order to influence the Storting in matters that are being dealt with are to be registered in a lobby register. Similar registrations have been proposed for those seeking political leadership in the ministry or in the Prime Minister's office. Similar proposals have been made five times earlier without obtaining a majority. The Presidency has assessed the proposal presented and, following an overall assessment, it has concluded that it will not recommend that the Storting adopt it. The Presidency believes that the proposal will neither strengthen democracy nor increase confidence in the democratic decision-making processes of society. Registration of those who seek out the representatives of the majority for the purpose of influence is unlikely to result in more transparency or transparency in the relationship between representatives and other social actors. In addition, a lobby register will be difficult to handle. The Presidency considers that it is necessary for the government to assess whether any need for registration for the government's part is appropriate for them. The Presidency is aware that economically strong and well-organised special interests can be more influential through extensive lobbying than other important interests without such professional assistance. Of course, this is unfortunate. It is therefore important that there is a low threshold for contact between the Stortinget and Norwegian citizens, as it is today. Both individuals and more unprofessional interest groups shall be able to reach their message to the representatives. An open and accessible magnification is a quality of our society that we want to preserve. A lobby register here could become a threshold and thus work against its purpose. It must not be such that only those registered in a lobby register shall have access to the representatives. During the work on this matter, the Presidency has received written input from press and communication organisations seeking greater transparency about structured influence in democratic processes. They provide for a compulsory publicly available lobby register. The Presidency's response to this is that a very large proportion of the information flow to representatives on issues dealt with in the Storting is already publicly available. The Presidency is committed to facilitating an open growth, where information on parliamentary activities is readily available. Open consultations and large-scale meetings, a wide range of information on our website on processing and representatives, publicly available postal records and information on the financial arrangements of the Stortinge, the practice of more publicity and the register of the duties and financial interests of representatives – these are instruments that meet the need for transparency and transparency. The Presidency will stress that receiving information from individuals or lobbyists for special interests is a normal and legitimate activity of the representatives. Any representative must be expected to be able to evaluate the information received independently. This implies that it must be possible for representatives to receive confidential information and that the person providing such information must be able to be sure to maintain its anonymity, which would complicate a lobby register. The practical problems of a possible compulsory lobby register must not be underestimated. There could easily be a bureaucratic system, and there may be a number of demarcation situations, where there may be doubts about the registration obligation. Registering lobby contacts at Stortinget will be easy to bypass by moving meeting activities to other venues. The draft representative refers to established lobby registers as examples of follow-up. The Presidency has therefore obtained information on a number of other countries, including the United States and Japan. We can see that no other Nordic countries have such a system. The Presidency is committed to preserving and strengthening the image and quality of the Storting. We want representatives to have a reflective relationship with ethical issues related to the position of elected representatives, such as: implies a deliberate attitude towards various forms of influence. The Presidency will therefore consider whether there may be reason to focus more attention on these issues in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e542	I've read the setting from Storting's presidency with interest. I find it particularly interesting that one of the arguments against introducing a lobby register refers to, among other things. that there is openness around the hearings of the big business committees. Then I find reason to remember that when it happened – it’s not long ago, it’s 13 years ago, I think – the counter-argument against opening the hearings was exactly the same as we are today against having a lobby register. In the discussions on openness – it is here in Stortinget, in the municipalities or in the municipalities – one usually meets the same counter-arguments: it will be practically difficult, there is a need for confidentiality, etc. There are hardly any of the good openness measures that are shown in the setting, and that we are happy for all of us, who have come without a fight. The counterargument is always there. In the Left, we like to think of ourselves as an open-minded party, we will continue the work of introducing a lobby register on the Stortinget. That's why I'm taking up the suggestions that have been made available. From my point of view, there is no argument that it is possible to circumvent such a register or that there may be grey zones, heavy enough counter-arguments. These can be a claim against most of the openness measures, but I want to warn you that the Storting goes in a direction where the best is the enemy of the good, and that's a little bit the feeling I get when I read the setting. In 2010, the OECD stated that the regulation of lobbying activities, for example: through a lobby register, could contribute to: ‘more open society and a level and balanced competitive venue for enterprises and stakeholder groups seeking to develop the policy to be pursued’. Influence of policies through lobbying and others is completely legitimate and often contributes to better decisions. But wishing the most possible openness around such influence is also legitimate and, I think, leads to the best possible decisions. The size is and should be an open house, it's important. But I find a reason to make a comment: when one is going to visit the Stortinget today, one is going through metal detectors, legitimation control and entry into a visiting register and then goes past the top politicians in the country and the press basket. Then it is hardly that there will be a certain openness around the visitor register the biggest obstacle to visiting the Stortinget. I think we should look in completely different directions. Getting openness around lobbyism contributes to a society with more insight into ordinary citizens in power and who influence political decisions. It's an important argument for openness, and it's an argument for always striving for openness, as far as it's practically possible. I find it hard to see that that limit stops with what already exists today, i.e. a visitor's register. One should be able to develop a practical system of openness around and transparency. I also want to add that once we've got a minority government, it's something that in many ways is positive, in the sense that more power is being moved to the Storing. That's good, but we've already noticed that more impact and more interest groups have moved to Stortinget. It is, as I have said before, essentially a good thing, but it should be open about it, and I think it is quite special – when the Norwegian Press Association is for a lobby register, the Editors' Association is for, the Communications Association is for and Transparency International is for – that we are politicians who should be for the transparency of lobbyism. This has found different ways to regulate in different countries. It's different political cultures. It has not been possible for Norway to make a blue copy of it either in individual states in the United States or in other countries in Europe, but I could still wish for a slightly more fitting attitude from the presidency to move on with the practical work of actually designing a register that fits our political culture and the culture of this house. I think it would strengthen Norwegian democracy, it would give more insight into the power of society, and it would have been good for the reputation of all of us who have the daily function of ours here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e564	The representative Rotevatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e567	On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would point out that the possibility of direct contact between citizens and elected representatives is an important aspect of being an open-ended magnification. It is a fundamental democratic right to influence decision-makers for their own or others' benefit. The contacts between citizens, business and organised interests on the one hand, and corruption and government on the other, are a necessary and legitimate part of our democratic system. Lobbying is an important part of our democracy. Transparency is important. Similarly, we do not see the need to register or regulate the lobby business, because it may have some unfortunate consequences, and let me mention someone. Firstly, a registration system will be resource-intensive, as the presidency also points out. Secondly, such a scheme could create a higher threshold for individual citizens in contacting decision-makers. Today, individuals can make contact to address one or more cases, without it being linked to a particular matter that the Storting has to deal with. Thirdly, a registration system will not guarantee transparency of lobbyism in the United Kingdom, in the Departments or in the Prime Minister's office. On the contrary, we are afraid that a comprehensive registration system could lead to meetings and discussions with decision-makers to a greater extent than is currently the case outside the Stortinget or the departments. As was also said by the presidency, none of our Nordic neighbouring countries have introduced such a registration system as is proposed by the Left. Several countries have taken this debate and concluded that the Storting will probably do today. The proposer is entitled to the fact that it is already not possible to enter the departments or the Stortinget without registering. However, the proposal from the Left implies that one should also record which matter to be discussed and by whom a meeting is to be held on behalf of. We think it's positive with attention on the theme of lobbyism, and it contributes to raising the awareness of us representatives around the fact that a case has different aspects. We have to be conscious and reflect on different ethical issues around being a magnificent representative. Lobbyism obviously has positive sides. Lobbyists can contribute their knowledge and their approaches to current political issues. It may be a very important source of supplementary information in addition to what is disclosed in ordinary case documents. But if the political system is under increasing pressure of strong professional interests, different forms of organised special interests and power concentrations in business, it may be unfortunate from a democratic point of view. It is not good for certain actors in a market or in an industry to obtain tailor-made framework conditions through closed contacts. The growing number of professional lobbyists and information agencies acting on behalf of their clients in recent years can reinforce this, and we will be on guard against strong special interests. So there are good arguments in favour of a registration system, and I am not in doubt that the purpose of the proposal is good, but we in the Christian People's Party believe that a registration system does not solve the challenges we have, relating to lobbyism. There is now a low threshold for contacting individual representatives, and that is positive. It is up to each representative or group within the political system to set limits for whom one will meet. Transparency and trust are linked. A registration system will never be able to provide a complete overview or transparency of who is in contact with who and what they are talking about. That is why we will support the presidency's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e588	It is with a mixture of amazement, surprise and disappointment that I read this representative initiative from the Left, because that party is usually a good ally in being skeptical of registration arrangements. But such principles must then obviously give way to such inventions as this. I would like to point out that the proposal on which the representative, Mr Rotevatern, argued was partly quite different from what has actually been put forward. I would therefore like to refer to this in more detail. The left wants the Size on, is to register ‘those who seek The Storing on behalf of themselves or others to influence the Storing in treatment cases’. You can probably do sociological research on who's reporting down here in the lobby. I think it'll say very little about who has power in society, because the big, resource-powerful organizations have completely different entrances to staging and governance than talking to single representatives. It is therefore the case that those who come here to the Stortingen afterwards are subject to a registration which, in order to fulfil its purpose, must also be public, and then one can also think of the abuses that lie in any registration system. The dilemma of the monitoring society is that most of the information we give away, we give up in good faith, and in the belief that they should be used for one purpose. So they pry out and are used for completely different purposes, and the sum of these records makes us get a totally pervasive society. I would say that this also leads to that the form of the meeting is now going to be a registration item. What about incoming or outgoing phone calls? Should you accept that someone can listen to you so that you can be aware that you can be controlled that you are always doing the best for countries and people? What about e-mails, or what about correspondence to Stortinget – letter – where, for good reason, the Stortinget has been outside the ordinary Public Public Service Act because we are not a governing body? I think that the proposal lacks in principle consideration, and that there are major problems. We also see that in those countries that have tried to do something similar. In fact, this proposal is more far-reaching, because it also makes sense to register on the subject. Most of us know that in a conversation – at least this is the case with my guests – one does not always know which direction the conversation is going on, and then one has to report on what this might have been. Then it's a fundamental problem to throw on board the last notion that representatives are actually elected for their own values, and that they are obliged to the loyalty of Storting's rules of play, their own set of values, their own programs. It is not that you roll around and lie down on your back and for polite reasons because you are interested in keeping in touch with your voters, agreeing to meetings. But that doesn't mean you become agents for your point of view. So much training is for all wholesalers that a lot of their contact with voters is about explaining why things can't be followed up, why you can't get it exactly the way you want to. I have to say that I appreciate the presidency attitude. This proposal must be forgotten as soon as possible, and there is no contribution to an informed discussion of what kind of publicity we want in the country. I think the title has a sub-title that has not been promoted, and it is really a distrust of the integrity of the elected national parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e610	I saw that the representative Rotevatn has signed up, so I expect he will answer for this attempt to introduce the monitoring society in Norway, which I understood was some interpretation of the proposal. As long as I have been in SV, SV has worked to increase openness in Norwegian society and in Norwegian policy on a broad front – against political surveillance, against the tendency to register and monitor through the Data Storage Directive and others we see today, but also openness about the political processes themselves. I think in particular there are two important issues that will be important in the years to come. One is the question of open customer lists, because there is a clear increase in the trend towards recruitment in the policy of the communications agency and other companies where it is relevant that those who hold employment must tell who they have worked for before, what they have recently committed to, got money from, learned from, etc. The second is the proposal for what is called a lobby register, i.e. an overview of the interests that use time and resources to influence politicians, and who influences them. I'm too lobbyist, I'm among those who think it's good to be influenced. I would simply recommend that all politicians who didn't let themselves be influenced try it. One can learn things, develop personally, maybe even change the position in new and new ways. I am busy that it should be known who I let myself be affected by. In most contexts, it happens in committee hearings, where it's public who participates, and I attend a lot of conferences that are mostly public. What I'm reading is not publicly known, but I'll tell you about it too. By introducing a kind of lobby register, an overview of who affects Stortinget, a more systematic overview can be obtained. When I'm tried to influence as a growth representative – and it happens quite often – it's almost always from companies, organisations or institutions themselves. There's a myth, I often see, that it's a professional company that runs it to a large extent. Keese did an investigation among the big business representatives a few years ago, where self-reporting showed that my impression was in line with what we reported, namely that a disappearing little part of the impact we are being subjected to happens in that way. Very much happens in a very ordinary way. The contribution of a lobby register is a systematic overview of the strengths and interests of the Norwegian community that benefit most from the potential – who impacts on the individual. I think that part of what's going to happen -- to say that -- isn't going to be a bomb when it comes to organizations that met which politicians, but it could definitely give us knowledge for use in the public space and, I believe, demysify a lot about such contacts. It's not particularly resource-required to do something like that. I want to say that calling it resource-requiring closest makes the transformation resource-requiring to laugh. There are many resource-requiring things in society, many of which, fortunately, are well-founded, but not all are equally well-founded. These are among the simpler things we can do in society. So I'll finish by saying that I read about the presidency's attitude on the Internet when she came. I was a parliamentary leader in approx. two and a half years in the previous ageing period. During that period, there were constant discussions of topics that were at home in the presidency. Then it happened quite often that we, as parliamentary leaders, were called to a round to discuss it with the presidency. It would be when the Storting should open in the morning, provide evidence for representatives, or other important topics. In my view, a lobby register is a good example of such a theme, when it was discussed in the presidency, which had been suitable for a round with the parliamentary leaders. Maybe for a reason, that is, in the presidency, all the parties that are against this, and that think they have presented their arguments of different quality up here, and outside the presidency at least three parties that are in favour. I don't think they would necessarily have been so influenced by the arguments that they had changed their vision, but it might have contributed to a conversation. But most importantly, it might have been possible to discuss whether a process would have been better suited than simply voting for or against the proposal. In my view, the text of the proposal has weaknesses. A discussion in the Presidency of the United Kingdom about how best to take care of the concerns of everyone up here – or that is. At least almost everyone – they said it makes sense, I think I was wise. I would recommend the presidency of the future to carry out processes – when they have matters of some importance – with the parliamentary leaders, so that the views of all parties are represented in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e633	This is as far as I understand the fifth time the Left is promoting proposals to introduce a lobby register on the Stortinget – be honoured Left of it. It is less easy to understand why it is so slow, that is, very far inside, for the Norwegian Parliament to introduce something which is increasingly a matter of course in parliaments around the world, and which is especially a matter of course based on the information society and the transparency society of which we are part. But at least there's an increasing number of parties ending up on this, and I think we're in the middle of a process that's obviously going to end up with the Norwegian Storting also introducing a lobby register – a little after form, but it's probably coming. The understanding of what openness is for something, changes over time, and it changes a lot. In the 1960s, there was an accepted reality that someone had talked to each other. Today it's a joke. Today, of course, those who have voted in favour of Stortinget will be able to obtain information about how I work, who I am talking to, who I am influenced by, and who I am meeting. The presidency's position in this matter is quite strongly marked by the fact that none of the parties in the presidency is in favour of the vote. It contains all the good rhetoric about an open-ended magnificence, more publicity and simplicity for the audience to follow the procedure – that it should be easy to obtain information. That is why it is all the more out of date when the main arguments of the presidency for rejecting the lobby register are as follows: that the main lobbying activity towards the staging representatives takes place through committee hearings. I have a short experience on Stortinget, but I have a long experience as a lobbyist, and this is simply not right. The Presidency also writes that it cannot be such that only those who have registered in a lobby register should have access to the representatives. But the way we understand the proposal, it doesn't matter. This is a proposal to record meetings that take place, not to prevent meetings from happening. The Presidency states that it is important that representatives have the opportunity to receive confidential information. Of course you should be able to do that. What we're talking about is keeping a register of organized and professional influence work. Of course, this does not prevent representatives from receiving confidential information, but it will strengthen the representatives' awareness of what kind of information they receive from whom. Finally, the presidency states that a lobby register will be difficult to deal with because there will be demarcation issues. It will not be more difficult to deal with the demarcation in Norway than in those countries that otherwise have this type of register. The main point is that the vast majority of people with influences will be completely unproblematic, and then we'll probably be left with a small group that are borderline cases. We can talk about that, and we can use discretion. I join the representative Solhjell, who said that this could be the subject of a process, a conversation, in Stortinget, where we could arrive at a result. With regard to the concern that this will be time-consuming and resource-intensive, I would like to remind you that the Greens have a lobby register in place. It takes approx. 10 minutes per representative per week to maintain it. The left's arguments about how a lobby register gives citizens better transparency in a political decision-making process are good. This, in the opinion of the Greens, will strengthen confidence in the adoption of policy decisions, in the UK, on the right basis. But there is an equally important reason to introduce the lobby register: the effect this would have on ourselves as representatives. The certainty that we are seen in the cards will make us more aware of who we are listening to and on what basis we are making decisions. It promotes a political culture that all of Norway expects and that all of Norway will benefit from. The size is an open parliament, but that does not mean that we cannot get better. Therefore, all parties in this matter should be free to stand by their representatives, because this is actually about representatives and not parties. In the meantime, along with SV, we will vote in favour of the Left's proposal, and are looking forward to what is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e654	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e657	I would like to start by thanking the representative, Mr Solhjell, and the representative, Mr Hansson, for their good work and for supporting the proposal. But that's not why I took the word again. I took the floor again to answer a little of the criticism from the representative Tetzschner, who started by saying that the Left is normally a good ally in terms of registration arrangements. I thank you for the compliment, although I am a little unsure whether I can represent him in full. This is not a question of introducing the overall monitoring society, either in Norway or in the Stortinget, as I can get a little feeling when I belong to the representative Tetzschner. It is simply a matter of targeting openness where it is practically possible – neither more nor less. One has lobby records in many countries. In many states in the United States, one goes much further than what we have proposed, including the following: detailed recording of economic interest involved. We're not suggesting that. We propose, in our view, simply a lobby register, which will lead to minimal red tape, and which should be practically possible for the presidency to make a proposal. I feel that the counter-arguments that have so far come from the two parties that have spoken against, that is. Right and Christian People's Party, essentially, is that the proposal we come up with is not perfect, and that it will be possible to circumvent it. It is not such that there is an objective that all deposit representatives should be registered – of course not. Nor is it a goal for all the communication they have to be registered. But what is already registered today, and which is a fairly formal framework around it, a simple meeting at Stortinget with stakeholder organisations, should be fully possible to open up and provide information about. Then the representative Tetzschner calls it a mistrust of the big business representatives. That I think is a strange argument. Is it distrustful of the Storting Committees that one has open hearings, which many fought against ten years ago with exactly the same arguments as a user today? Is it distrustful of the administration that one has openness about the proceedings there? Is it distrustful of the country's local people and its presidency that one has openness around them, even though many too often try to close them? Openness about what it is practically possible to have openness around should be the main rule – not least in the national parliament, where we are and are lucky and manage a lot of power on behalf of the inhabitants. The requirements for maximum transparency should be met by the inhabitants. The representative, Mr Solhjell, said that these are aspects of the proposal that could be better. It's possible. That is why the specific proposal we are discussing today is not a detailed description of a register. It's about asking the presidency to draw up a proposal. I agree that parliamentary leaders should be involved so that they can find something that works well in this House.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e673	First, to the post of the representative Hansson, who turned out to be a lawyer for a completely different proposal from what has been made. He concentrated on the powerful lobby interests, while the proposal he supports is that all those who seek out some of the elected people on behalf of themselves or others in order to influence, that is, to be recorded. You also have to think about what this will lead to. Except that it will be a practical threshold, it will also be a substantive threshold, which should interest us from a democratic point of view. Representatives depend on getting input from the public, from their own voters. I myself have had enquiries that have been made about cheating on waiting lists in the health care system. It enabled me to ask very precise questions to the Minister of Health of the Workers' Party. It probably wouldn't have been okay for my source if you could just see in the register who had talked to me 14 days before that post – so many people don't come from Health Norway to me, but they represent a lot of different, so it would have been very simple. This raised limit will result in the Storting becoming more referred to and depending on the official information obtained from the government, through the government's proposals, through the propositions and the NOOs. I can't see that this is a force for the flow of information in society and for the people's rule. I must also say that in the last speech by the representative, Mr Rotevatn, who also does not argue very strongly about the privacy aspects at the level of the representatives involved in the proposal, the representative has been harmed to interfere with what I am a member of, namely full transparency in the activities of the bodies. So when there's publicity about the Storting's meetings – this meeting here is a good example of that – or committee hearings, it's organ publicity. However, as far as the representatives do and load, this has such a strong impact on monitoring that there is no argument that will differ from later demands for full transparency in correspondence and, if necessary, telephone calls and e-mails – because it is so good with transparency. And none of the previous speakers have made such a delineation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e684	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e698	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given following the speeches of the main speakers of each group and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e707	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good work on this matter. We do not really agree on the way forward – it is clear from the setting as it exists. The Labour Party wishes to support the proposal that has been submitted and will make its argument for this in the further debate, while a majority – consisting of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. I would like to further argue for the majority's view. It is important to state that the government statement is clear that greater flexibility in the nursery reception is to be facilitated. The proposal of the representative for two nursery receptions, which is available here, will, like what was presented in the budget of the red-green government, make the time of birth crucial for the length of the waiting time for the right to kindergarten. So it doesn't solve the basic challenge. There is a need to improve the knowledge base on different models of how to implement a flexible recording. There are considerable differences between municipalities in the way they currently practice the admission of non-rights children. I know a little bit about that, because I'm the mother of someone who was born a little bit outside of the date stamped court. It may have been a little poor planning on my part, but in my municipality there were no challenges that year for us. Many municipalities have one main recording and assign vacancies on a rolling basis for the rest of the year. Other municipalities have a fixed recording in addition to the main recording in August. We need more knowledge about this in order to get the best possible system for parents and children. It must be an ambition to ensure flexibility in recording, regardless of the time of birth. Because the municipality of Norway is so different, the proposal for two fixed admissions could affect the municipalities very differently. It is important that the solutions chosen are arranged in such a way that no costs are imposed on municipalities without containment. We are committed to finding good solutions for flexible recording, so that each municipality can adapt the recording to a local need, rather than being imposed on two fixed dates per year. In the last period, we asked the red-green government for experience figures from the municipalities and for an estimate of the costs of the different solutions, without getting an adequate response. Therefore, it is not only good, but absolutely necessary that the government now take the time to acquire knowledge, so that we can get good solutions for a flexible nursery reception. Both as a right-wing politician and as a mother-in-law, I am concerned that we are getting good solutions in place as quickly as possible, but it would be unwise if we did not take the time to make knowledge-based choices about which solutions actually solve the needs of all our different municipalities. In recent years, the main objective has been to expand capacity in kindergartens. It is therefore absolutely necessary that we now take joint action to raise the quality. We have many good kindergartens today that work well with quality, but the picture is nuanced. We are pleased that the government has so clearly signaled that this work should be given priority. Dedicated adults work in kindergartens, and we have to take good care of them. Strengthening skills development is therefore central to improving quality. The government is increasing the appropriations for quality work in kindergartens, with a new commitment to management training for pediatricians. Good management is an important contribution to recruiting and maintaining skilled labour in the nursery sector. The government prioritises action to improve quality in 2014, with a total of 170 million. kr. This is earmarked for increased competence of employees. Ten million. kr was added by the Right Party Government. The government also has ambitions to further increase its investment in the coming years. So this issue that we are discussing today is a small but important part of our kindergarten policy. The government has said that it will put in place a flexible babysitting system, but at the same time quality work must be given high priority when developing the kindergartens of the future, because it deserves our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e737	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e740	I record that the Right will facilitate a more flexible nursery reception and that municipalities will facilitate a continuous admission. This is what they say to raise the kindergarten sector in the years ahead. My question to the Right is: do we need more or less kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e747	I think I have to start by clarifying what I actually said. I said that quality is what must be most important, and we must also get flexible solutions. So it's about getting space for the kids who need space, and yes, it'll mean more places.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e752	I'm busy figuring out what added flexibility in babysitting means. What we've been told by work on the setting, at least, is that, according to Right, it means even more than two recordings a year, and that it has to mean more places. That's why I might ask myself, "Does flexibility mean a casual recording, so that when you want it, you can get it into the nursery? If not, can the representative say anything about what it is actually supposed to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e759	First, I would like to remind the representative that he was in government for eight years and was unable to make a proposal for a more flexible recording. And now when you brought it, it was a stepping-up. Then I have to commend those who say that they want something in this matter, but as it is clear in the letter from the Council of State, we need a little more knowledge before we come up with the proposal. The government has also said that it will make a proposal for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e766	Mette Tønder said in his post that it is good that the government will acquire knowledge about how to facilitate a more flexible recording. As everyone knows, there is one thing in particular that is needed, and there is more money for municipalities to facilitate that one has enough employees to ensure this. That's why the red-green government put in proposals to spend $242 million. to extend the period from 1 September to 1 November. In what way does Mette Tønder believe that it has helped the children who were born between 1 September and 1 November 2013, that the government withdrew this money and will use the time to acquire knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e775	I want to first remind you that you used seven and a half years before you were able to make this proposal when you were in government, a majority government. Our government has said that it wants a little more time to acquire knowledge and make a good proposal, so that we get a more flexible admission into our kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e782	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e786	First, thank you to SV for a good proposal. We all agree that we should have high-quality kindergartens, which are a good place to be for the kids. Over many years, we have focused on building up skills, quality and new places, and the work of recruiting new personnel has been important. The representative proposal we are discussing here today concerns the extension of the number of kindergartens. It is not easy to see if a reader reads the comments of the Right Party and the Advance Party, where the whole kindergarten field has been discussed and explained – that is, an explanation of this matter. I understand that is very pleasant when we see the same story of parties from a short time ago. I understand that the same parties have difficulty defending the cuts that were made in the budget, and therefore talk about other things to get the attention away from what this really is about. In this case, suddenly two nursery receptions have become a threat to quality and a threat to differences in municipalities. It is in stark contrast to previous statements by the same political parties. Many are the quotations we could refer to from the hall or from the media about the unambitious behaviour of the red-green government – that they did not take hold and did not have the capacity to implement the case. But the red-green government invested in full babysitting and managed it. Now we would introduce more recordings. A gradual introduction was included in our 2014 budget of 241 million. kr. It would give 2,900 new places – one third of the places needed – and a good start on more flexibility. It cut the sitting government. At the same time, they cut down 344 million. NOK in the transfers to municipalities because they increased the cash support. They believe that fewer people now want their kids in kindergarten because they choose cash support. That means 7 000 fewer places in 2014. The position therefore defends its cut by the fact that the Stoltenberg government changed the cash support. Yes, it's true that it changed in 2012, but we didn't cut in the expansion, and we were betting in several places. The changes that were made then, on the other hand, according to the calculations of the red-green government, would mean increased demand. That's why we increased the budget by over 91 million. kr to the municipalities and followed it up further in revised form. In the period 2005–2012, from which we have the latest Kostra figures, there were 62,000 more kids who were accommodated in kindergarten. That's an increase of 28 pst. Nine out of ten kids are now in kindergarten, and the number of annual works has increased by 45 pst. since 2005. It's a completely different story than the one that's now being told. The cut that is now made is a real cut. There is a down-priority from the Solberg government in the case of families with children. To refer to some of what the rapporteur in Bergen said, that is not what we voted for. I think a lot of people can join. Because the cuts have already had consequences. In Tønsberg, led by the Right and Christian People's Party, they cut out a planned 40-place extension because they got the subsidy reduced by 5.2 million. kr. In Kristiansand, 70 seats are cut because they get over 12 million. kr less. I guess the municipal politicians in those municipalities knew what they needed, and that they planned according to the needs they had, and not because they thought it fit, or because they thought it was fun. That means that someone has to wait longer in line or doesn't get space. 1 March was the deadline for new admissions this year, and it will be interesting to see how many have opted for cash support rather than kindergarten, in line with the government's wishes and thoughts. Lack of childcare facilities gives parents limited freedom of choice. We see a shift towards a more immature family policy. Most people who have the opportunity would like to combine being a parent with being an employee. We're going to make that right. Society needs them in the workplace, and kindergarten is the best solution. No one wants to go back to the years when the day mother was the only solution? The parties to the Right and the Advance Party were more forward-looking and superior in this matter in opposition than they are in position, and we regret that. We would like their impatience to find good solutions for the families with children to be just as great now. But now you have to figure out, wait and see, and maybe do it if the need is there -- a need that was there last year, and that we heard about very often, but that suddenly disappeared after the election. I take up the proposal, and hope that they once saw the engaged two-gatherers here in this room dare to stand for what they once meant, and as they thought the red-green government just got to do right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e809	The representative Mangt has addressed the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e814	We have a sense of the Labour Party's impatience in this matter. It's important to praise each other too. At the same time, the question is, if this is so important, why couldn't they do it in eight years? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e821	I wish the representative barrels had been as impatient in position as in opposition. We were impatient to get full babysitting, and we were able to do that. That's why we have to build a rock. It actually costs a lot of money. Eight thousand nine hundred is $1.35. kr. We started with 241 million. kr, which would give one third of those places. It's important to start. I also think the representative Tønder would appreciate if they had been built, I know a good part of the Right-wing representatives right. Because here in this room there was a great impatience to get it done. We understood that, too. But the money is to be found, and we found it on the budget that we had.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e828	The representative Sonja Mandt refers to changes in the cash support and what it has had to say about calculations of kindergarten development. She believes that cuts in transfers to the municipalities mean that the municipalities have to lay down kindergartens, or at least they do not have the opportunity to build new places. But this is exactly the same calculation model that was used in the red-green government when they made changes in cash support for two-year-olds, and also for one-year-olds, when they increased cash support for one-year-olds. It's the exact same calculation model that was used at the time. Why is the representative Sonja Mandt so critical of a calculation model that her own government used when the Workers' Party crashed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e837	I thank you for the question. I think here we have to look at what we did differently. We introduced an age differentiation of the cash support, but at the same time we added over 91 million. kr for further construction, and it turns out, if you look at statistics and figures, that more and more kids came into kindergartens at that time. But you have to build in parallel with the introduction of cash support, and we do. That's why we've been very critical about cutting down 344 million. kr to the municipalities before you know at all if there are so many fewer kids going to use the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e842	I note that the difference between the only gratifying and full chaos is one or two recordings. So it's that simple now, but obviously it wasn't the previous eight years. The representative Mant thanked for a good proposal. She thanked SV for that. Then I would like to point to the second sentence in the setting, where it says that the red-green government introduced full babysitting. It also repeated the representative Mandt orally here. Furthermore, a note from the Workers’ Party states that the non-introduction of two admissions will have an effect on the goal of full child care coverage. The question is simply: was it not introduced or was it not fully child-sitting under the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e851	Full babysitting was introduced under the red-green government with the recording criteria that were then. Many municipalities already have a continuous recording today, and the representative Tønder was in the room. We want equal treatment, so that there is an opportunity no matter which municipality you live in, and that is why we want to lubricate the system with that money. Full babysitting? Yes, for the group that was already in prison. Then we would expand, so that it shouldn't be random who gets kindergarten, based on when in the year they were born. The representatives from the Right have also been concerned not to rush into a young person until the time limit for child care admission expires. It was important. So that we're stressing two babysittings as the only blessing. No, we don't, we see that's a way we have to go. One step on the way was to lubricate the system with 241 million. NOK, which would give 2,900 new places. These removed the right, because they did not want to introduce two babysitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e860	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e863	This government is committed to ensuring a flexible and qualitatively good supply within kindergarten. I'm recording that the opposition parties that constituted the previous government are now very concerned about introducing two babysittings, which they could have done in the eight years they put if they really meant it. In fact, they put some funds into a budget they knew they would not manage. I see with interest the comments made by the representatives of the Workers' Party that they are very concerned about what the Progress Party wrote in connection with the kindergarten message, Meld. See point 24 for 2012-2013, cf. Inner. 380 S for 2012–2013. It is quite so comprehensive as to why the Progress Party does not support the proposal for the introduction of two nursery admissions, precisely because we believe, as then, that two admissions per year are not an adequate solution. So I think it's very good that they have written it in their comments. In the case of such a model outlined by the proposers, a child who reaches one year of age immediately after admission will still have to wait until it is nearly one and a half years before it becomes available. The party of progress has always thought that the ideal solution would be continuous and flexible recording. This would take care of all ages after the age of one year. However, it is important to stress that there are now good arrangements in several municipalities that have room for work and that take in children even if they turn one year after 1 September – this is because the municipalities that have free space see the advantage of being able to collect the proportion and at the same time help their inhabitants. It is therefore important to obtain a more accurate and accurate calculation and analysis of the situation in order to see what is needed to implement a more flexible system. Nor does the Education Association support a solution for two nursery receptions, which the proposers now want. The Education Association agrees with the government parties, which include the Advance Party. During the consultation during the budgetary procedure last autumn, it was clear from the Education Association what it considered to be the red-green government's proposal to gradually escalate to two kindergartens. Let me quote some of what the Federation of Education wrote in its hearing response to the Storting: ‘The Education Association understands the intention behind the proposal of stepping up two admissions, but believes that it is too early, and that the funds should also be used for measures that can improve the quality of the children already available in kindergartens. If it is extended to more admissions already now, without more funding for other quality promotions, we are at risk of further pressure on the quality of the sector with a lower number of childcare facilities as a result. The extended entitlement to nursery facilities will also add pressure on the general manning of kindergartens. [[...]] The number of exemptions from the requirement for approved pedagogical education for managers and pedagogical managers has stabilised above 4000 employees, a historically high level. In order to reduce the number of exemptions, it is necessary to increase the level of competence of nursery workers, to recruit more people for kindergarten teacher training and to recruit already-trained kindergarten teachers back to kindergartens.’ I guess it's much clearer than that. That is why this government has also taken this seriously in its budget. We just gave priority to the Education Association and so on. believes it is right, quality now before quantity that will only risk hitting the most vulnerable in our society, namely the children. Therefore, the Fremskritsparte Government strengthened the budget in terms of increased competence for employees, the employees being the main resource. For this government, it is, but maybe not for the opposition. I agree that it can be unreasonable that there will still be children who do not have room for today's model. But I can promise that I will work for a more fair system, which has a higher flexibility, and which is not locked up to two dates a year. This government is concerned that we should have good and qualitative services, so we give it priority first. It's actually the kids we're talking about, the most vulnerable. This government has no sense of the proposal, when it comes to those degrees at the expense of the children. We put the employees under even stronger pressure, and we leave our smallest, most vulnerable, to something to which the Education Association is strongly critical. We are concerned about security – that's why we put the children first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e887	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e891	There may be many in this room and in the country, for the rest of which the innermost wants to be recorded on a continuous basis. If you ever want to reach that goal, it's quite crucial – if you compare it to climbing a mountain – if you go up or if you go down. We started the escarpment, and we were quite honest that the first step towards continuous recording would be to put in place two annual recordings. So we added 242 million. kr in the draft government budget for 2014 to start the increase, i.e. in the right direction. But the Advance Party and the Right withdrew that money and started the descent. When we discussed the kindergarten announcement in Stortinget last June, the members of the Progress Party characterised our ambitions as overly passive. How will Morten Stordalen characterize the government's policy in this way, when we know that the government withdrew the first step in the direction that he himself says the Progress Party is so concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e896	If you talk about the ambition of this government, I think it's very good. It actually takes into account the fact that there is a robbery of employees in kindergartens and has the highest number of times in the case of exemptions for unskilled workers. This government will not put the children at risk by going on further now. Therefore, quality is important. The representative of Grande is calling for this structure. Yes, it was a budget, as I said, that you actually shouldn't be governed by. We're dealing with the real world. We actually want quality first and to secure the kids that have space. Then we're going to work for a more continuous and flexible recording. As the representative of Grande says, the party of progress was against two recordings. That is why we wrote what we did in connection with the message, because the Progress Party would have a continuous, flexible recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e903	It may seem that the representative Stordalen believes that the development of full capacity has affected the quality of kindergartens. I have checked. I have checked against investigations carried out by both the local community publisher and diffi, and there is no indication that the quality has been reduced. What does the Progress Party and the Stordalen build their opinions on?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e908	They are based on the Education Association's hearing opinion to the Stortinget last autumn, which is open to everyone, and I believe that the representative is also concerned about what the Education Association says. It is a very public hearing, and it is the one on which it is based, where the Education Association says that the number of dispensations is ‘historically high’ — the number of employees who have a derogation from the requirement of education has stabilised above 4000. I choose to believe that, and I also think the representative Følling should choose to believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e913	I must say that I am surprised by the name of Morten Stordalen’s representative for kindergartens in Norway today. Employees are driven by ‘driving’, says the representative Stordalen. I'm counting on the Minister of Education to say something about it, because if we rob employees, it's actually pretty serious, and then I expect the Minister of Education to give some powerful signals about how to reduce the robbery. In our reign, we increased the grant for the skills of kindergartens by nearly 150 million. $40 million. kr only in the last year. So the Progress Party government has put forward a 10 million grant. Extra kroner. When we see that you cut at the same time, you cut at 700 million. kr is the increase in competence 1,2 pst. of this. Is the representative of Stordalen satisfied with the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e920	When I take the word ‘crustacean’ in my mouth, it is based on the proposal that is now available. If you want to do what the proposers and the Workers' Party now want to do, to increase to two recordings, which the Education Association strongly advises against, I would say it limits to what can be called robbery, since you are already operating on the border. In terms of quality-enhancing, we should remember that the figures presented by the representative Rigmor Aasrud are related to the escalation plan of the previous government. When this government does not step up to two recordings, but continues to increase in addition to the previous government on quality and competence, I am pleased with the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e925	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e928	A good kindergarten offer is important, both that it is an offer so that everyone who wants it can have a nursery place, that there is enough staff, and that there is good educational quality and content in kindergartens. We really want to welcome this debate very much, and would like to thank SV for focusing on this. I really hope not that kindergarten policy drowns in the strong focus that the government wants to have at school. It's an important focus, but if it goes at the expense of kindergarten and the educational and good quality content of kindergarten, we're bomming. So I hope that the Minister of Knowledge will also take a strong focus on this field. When talking about empowerment among teachers, I hope that the Minister of Knowledge also has the staff in the kindergartens in mind, because there is also a need for empowerment. In addition to more flexibility in recordings, quality and staffing are important keywords in the debate around kindergartens. The government has stated that they now want to bet on raising the quality of kindergartens. Kindergartens must be more than a place of storage, in which case there is a need to strengthen the competence of kindergartens, but also a commitment to staffing, so that employees have time to spend with their children. Kindergarten is an important developmental arena for children, gain communication skills and get a good foundation before they start school. We notice that the government parties say that this is a bet point for the government, and I hope that we can see being followed up. For the Christian People's Party, flexibility and freedom of choice are important keywords of family policy. One of the main instruments for this is precisely kindergartens. Today's system means that the family now has to plan life depending on whether the child is born before or after 1 September. This is very unfortunate and leads to much unnecessary stress and concern for small children’s families. Two recordings would not solve this problem. It would only have given the families two dates to give birth before, so the nursery is secured. The Christian People's Party does not want to concentrate on two recordings, but wants all children over one year of age to be placed in kindergarten, regardless of when they are born in the year. This gives real flexibility to the families and will lead to that they do not need to plan the birth, but will give the opportunity to plan the family's daily life after the child's one year of age, without concern for kindergarten. We are therefore pleased to see that the Minister of Knowledge also wants to ensure greater flexibility for families with children, and we are eagerly waiting for proposals from the government – excited and impatient. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that proposals for a new scheme will be submitted to the Stortinget during the current period. The current period means either during 2014 or that we have to wait until 2017. We in the Christian People's Party expect this to be a priority area for the government, so that we can put in place good arrangements to ensure flexibility for families as quickly as possible. This is an area that hasn't been prioritised for a long time, and now it's really urgent to do something. This is an engagement that the government parties have shared with the Christian People's Party over the previous periods, and we therefore expect something to be done now, now that you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e945	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e948	I want to characterize this as a very ambitious article. If it is to be such that all parents with children over one year of age have a right to sit in the nursery, it must be decoded, but I understood the representative Bekkeword so that it means when one should want, i.e. something almost running. What I want to challenge the representative on is: does he agree that it is possible to think that two recordings are more ambitious than one, three are more than two, four are more than three, and running again is much more ambitious than four and three and two and one? If he agrees that this is going on a kind of hierarchy, wouldn't two be on the way to running? Or does the Christian People's Party think that we should jump from one to another running directly? I want to understand the idea of how they'll get to the very ambitious and great goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e955	The Christian People's Party believes that two admissions this year will not solve what is the problem today, namely that you have to plan the birth from specified dates to secure a right to kindergarten. When I say that the Christian People's Party's ambition is that all children over the age of one should have the right to kindergarten, it's a direct quote from our party program, which we want to realize. When the new government uses words such as ‘running admission’, it is a continuous admission into the Christian People's Party's head, at least so that it is one year old, the right to space should be there, and then a strong effort is needed in the kindergarten sector both in terms of places and in terms of staffing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e961	I think I understand all of that, but my point is the following: either running means on the day or on the week or on the month or what it means, it means a lot more babysitting places and many more adding and much more money out there. Then at least two recordings a year, or even a third of two – a few hundred million – are on their way to it. I suppose the representative must agree with that, unless there is a magical other way. Then the question is, why can't we use the money and do it on the way to what the Christian People's Party wants? Even if it's enormously ambitious and maybe a little ahead, I can't understand anything but that it would have to be a step forward towards running getting two.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e966	If you'd gone for the red-green proposals for two admissions this year, I'm afraid you'd stopped there. You'd still have a very rigid system, where you'd have to plan your birth from very specific dates. Yes, it might have solved a little bit on the way, but the Christian People's Party has greater ambitions than that. When the government announces a quality improvement, that they warn that they will come to the Storting with a proposal on how to get a continuous admission, what the Christian People's Party wants is what we want to achieve. I hope we don't have to wait until 2017 before this government makes a suggestion as to what it will look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e973	I have a simple question for the representative Bekkewold: 7 000 fewer children's playgrounds, is this a good contribution for all 1-year-olds to have children's playgrounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e978	It is quite clear that when, from a macro perspective, some calculations are made as to what the cash support will have a bearing on the demand for kindergartens, I understand that at local level it may look different. I hope that this is something that the government will also look at, so that the municipal sector does not now have to build up spaces, but rather, on the contrary, insists that we still have children's garden space for everyone. The government has to come back to this, and I hope that we already see in the municipal bill that the consequences for some municipalities have been taken over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e983	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e986	The centre part of the red-green government has been on a historic rise to expand kindergarten capacity. There is a legal right to kindergarten, and the Center Party has a programme that we're going to have kindergarten space for everyone. We were ready to introduce the start-up with two kindergarten recordings in 2014, but it was cut. I agree with Mr. Solvency Horne from the Advance Party that it is a shame that parents have to plan their birth in order to be sure of kindergarten. And that's exactly what happens. In Oslo, there are so many births in the summer that the Oslo midwives are warning that security can be compromised. Food departments all over the country notice this. Joy over a new member of the family can quickly become dull if the birth takes place on 2 September, because then one starts to worry about how to get a babysitting place. That's the situation today. I wish that Solvency Horne and her perpetrators still saw the unimaginable in the situation and did something now. But I observe that the government is hiding behind the elaborate quality and non-discrimination of public and private kindergartens, just to explain the postponement of two nursery receptions. It doesn't address the practical challenges these families face. The red-greens significantly increase kindergarten capacity, but the government party is hiding behind the fact that it is now important to increase quality. There are many happy parents around the country. The studies carried out show that the quality has not been compromised during this period. The centre party believes that care for parents and the quality of kindergarten has a decisive impact on good development and learning for young people. This is a decisive basis for later schooling and social community. That's why this is so important. The government is also hiding behind the argument that it will affect the municipalities differently if they are imposed on two kindergartens. I'm happy for the concern, but I don't think she suffocated very deeply. We see that many municipalities have more babysitting, precisely because they see that there is a need for it. And they do it even if they don't get to cover the cost. They do it because it's important for small children's families, and because society needs labour and competence. About 14,000 unaccompanied children went to kindergarten in 2011. An estimate shows that the cost of introducing two nursery services will be between 2 and 3 billion. kr. It may seem that it is more important for the government to honour the promise of tax relief to those who think the most, than to introduce, or at least to start establishing, two kindergartens for small children’s families in an establishment phase. This is not the priority of the Centre Party. We support the proposal for two annual nursery receptions as a start-up and ask the government to introduce this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1005	I would like to start by thanking the SV representatives for presenting the proposal and raising an important theme. For many parents and families, the practice of guaranteed space if a child was born before 1 September, i.e. one year of childcare, has led to much frustration. Left has the greatest understanding of that. It should not be such that if a person does not match correctly in view of the time of birth, a person may have to wait one more year in kindergarten. There is no secret that the Left has gone to the elections to secure two-year-old babysitting, and that we were therefore preoccupied with the budget proposal from the red-green government at this particular point. In that alternative, our budget continued to do so. After the negotiations with the government party in the fall, this was not part of the final arrangement. And even though I and the Left think we should get two babysittings, I understand that the government needs to put the cards in the budget process itself. In this context, it is worth remembering that the red-green government proposal only started the process of escalating with two babysittings, and that the final calculation for both the state and the municipality is still uncertain. Me and the Left are also in agreement with the government party, which points out that it is crucial to ensure full non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens. However, I understand those who, in the light of previous statements from representatives from the Right Party and the Progress Party, are surprised that one in this setting does not clearly say that one will continue to work on two babysittings. However, I am pleased that the government has warned that they will ensure flexibility in the recording, regardless of the time of birth, and that the concrete design of this will be submitted to the Storting during the period. Given that the issue of increased flexibility in kindergarten admissions and possibly more annual admissions is budgetary issues, I can promise from the Left's side that we will work actively to get good arrangements that parents and families can be satisfied with. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about the general nursery practice. The left is in total the emphasis on the quality of the nursery. For us, quality is primarily about securing enough pedagogues. At that point, the Left will actively use its position in budgetary negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1020	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1023	This was an understandable and reasonable article and why it does not support a proposal at this time. It's a shame Left didn't have the strength to get through it in the fall, but it's also the most understandable. What I want to challenge the representative is something the Prime Minister said when she was asked about this, and perhaps the real reason why we are standing there on this matter. For she was asked in the question hour if why not prioritize this, and why not give priority to increasing the number of kindergartens. Then she said: "This government is putting more emphasis on knowledge in school Now, knowledge, the teacher, must be focused, not all other things. [[...]] That means that there will be areas that will be down-prioritized.’ How does Left ensure that all these words do not lead to a deprioritising of two recordings or another model ensuring more recordings?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1037	When it concerns the primary position of the Left, as I just said from the Chair, I can promise the representative Solhjell that he will reflect in his alternative budget, including for 2015, and will be part of his mandate when I meet the government for government negotiations. The left also looks forward to the government's concreteization of'more flexibility' in the recording, as they have now said in this case. Stronger than that, I can't say it from this pulpit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1044	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1048	I left out my prewritten script to initiate my article with a story from reality instead, that is. a story from the nursery in this context. I have – I believe myself – an unofficial Norwegian record in poor planning of when I have had my three children – all in election years, and the first one in September 2005, almost certainly the day I was supposed to be on Soria Moria and negotiate a government platform. In August next year, in 2006, I received gifts, hardly from higher powers, but it came as men from heaven, a nursery place just before the year was to begin. The first day in a fallow nursery in the Suburb with almost 200 children, I met up with what is called the launch. At the end of the day a lady came to me. So she said, "You're a politician -- like this, it really can't be. There are no qualified people, there are chaotic conditions, and not even the pedagogical leader in the department has preschool teacher training. You have to do something about that. So I thought in a few seconds and I said yes, you should be aware that if it weren't for us, you probably wouldn't have had a kindergarten. Secondly, the price would have been higher. Moreover, the previous government tried to weaken the qualification requirements for the additional ones. So maybe I was pretty happy with my own answer, maybe I just kind of radiated it a little bit – I don't know, I didn't try to do it. But at least she looked at me, and then she replied: that's why I voted SV at the last election, but now I want you to fix this. I start out like this to explain that there's something inherent in politics that almost the same way you look at it, one first has to solve some problems before one solves the others. So one of the biggest social problems in the world that got its solution in the previous big time period was that there was a full child-care coverage with one shot. A statutory entitlement to kindergarten was introduced, which SV suggested for the first time at the end of the 1980s. And the price went down sharply. Then we started a quality bet, among other things. with two messages at the end of the previous period -- it'll be important in this period, and there's a lot of agreement about it -- and we started on two recordings. What makes this issue difficult to understand, in the context of the budget, is that sometimes a multiple has different views, and then someone has to give up. I have experienced it myself, to say it as it is. But what's hard to explain is when there's a multiple that has the same view, and then everyone has to give up. That's what's hard to understand in this case. The other thing that's hard to understand is that the same thing about one will reach quite a heavenly goal of, let's say, a right to take place on the day, or if one imagines that it might have to be in the month, or if one is happy with two recordings, then at least two are on the way to three and four recordings and infinity – just like one comes in before two. So it's kind of hard to understand that a person couldn't agree to use that money, putting them on the road to two recordings. Then one at least has invested it either one of my two or running recordings. It's math, I'd say – but it's of course allowed to see it differently. But what we've been shown here, too, is that everyone still says it should go that way. What worries me is that the real underlying reason is that the government has not intended to give priority to this area over the next few years – as Prime Minister Erna Solberg went a long way in saying here in Question Time – because they have other priorities instead. This is underlined in the setting. As the representative Breivik said, it says no, this is a little bad, we have to check some facts and things, but we come back with a more ambitious model – two recordings or running. But there's nothing in the vicinity of it. It says you have to check a little bit and work a little bit, and it's a little bit early, and so on. Therefore, all those who are interested in the fact that families in Norway will have easier access to kindergarten, the places where it doesn't work well enough – in some large municipalities, a few smaller ones – will have to be involved in the fact that flexibility is not another way to understand that we're not really doing anything about it. We have to set the necessary funds, either one of my two recordings or running recordings, want to establish a better model than the one that is proposed, but don't let it be accepted that flexibility means depriorization. We have to be willing to use the extra funds in the extra children's playgrounds if we're going to achieve our goal. That is why we are also going to support our own proposals here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1067	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1070	Former party leader in SV, Kristin Halvorsen, gave the promise of space to all children within three months after they had applied. That promise was broken. SV promised full equal treatment of public and private kindergartens in 2014. That promise was broken. Now it's most important to get two babysittings in place. What in the world was it that made it impractical to give priority to flexible admissions in the period SV was in majority government – eight years – and in the years they were in political leadership in the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1077	With all due respect, it wasn't exactly like we were sitting quietly looking at babysitting in those years. Over 60,000 more children were given space. As I said, at least we had to put in one babysitting and full coverage before we could get in place two. It took many years and – as the representative said – more years than what we had in mind to achieve. Then we had to bring down the price, so that it would be a real deal for everyone. When the price went down, more people were looking for it, and so even tougher to come to it. Then we had to make sure to keep going on the same quality. It's well documented that it was him, and he must get an additional lift forward. And we introduced a legal right. All that happened over those years. At the end of that period, we also began the process of stepping up towards two recordings. So I would say that if the representative thought it was so bad that the things were not done well enough, well, do it now! Now the Right has power. Then they can do what they didn't think was done well enough in the previous period. But it turns out they don't actually intend to do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1086	As we heard, the party that has run the longest and is trying to get away from the promises of kindergarten policy. I'm going to leave it down and talk a little bit about flexibility, because I understood that the representative Solhjell had a little bit of understanding. He asked at least several times about it, until he finally concluded that it was probably down-priority – that's what it meant. It's probably not that strange if you're used to thinking that one solution is suitable for everyone. That's really what leads me to my question, because I wonder: when some municipalities have a place guarantee, some municipalities have a continuous recording and some municipalities have one recording – that's the reality today – why does the representative Solhjell believe that one and the same solution, i.e. two recordings, is the only blessing and only right for all the municipalities, when the municipalities are as different as they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1093	That's not what I think. Today's situation is that all municipalities have at least one recording per year, but many municipalities have several. The most important reason they have more is that they have more babysitting places, so they can offer it. I am absolutely sure that that situation will exist in the future. That's why it's not that question. The question is: should we give everyone a security so that they can get kindergarten more quickly, for example: by saying first at least two recordings a year – and if anyone wants to go further, as both the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party want, go on to some kind of running recording? If one is, it will cost some resources. One should build out places, for example: in a part of our larger cities, and those resources need to be set aside. Therefore, it would have been a good start to implement the government's escalation plan, and then one could go even further if one wanted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1098	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1101	I think – I'm pretty sure it really – that parents who are going to have family growth will enjoy it as much this year as last year. It is only right to bear in mind in this debate that the admission requirements and rights to kindergarten are exactly the same in 2014 as they were in 2013. That means you have a right child, you also have a right to space. The municipalities have to deal with that. There is no freedom of choice. Then I believe that two recordings are not on the way to more flexible admissions, which is the wording of the Sundvolden Declaration. I believe that two admissions are the most expensive, most bureaucratic, most centralised and least flexible system that can be introduced. So the fact that the government doesn't want to take a step towards a system that we think is bad, I don't think can be particularly eye-catching. In the worst case, two recordings will cause the municipalities that several representatives have pointed out to have a more continuous recording to tighten it up. So in the worst case scenario, an introduction of two recordings could lead to less flexibility today for many families with children. In addition, there is a price tag of approx. One and a half billion. kr, and there is an obvious ‘mismatch’ in the opposition when they talk about both using 1.5 billion. kr in unfunded promises, and that the achievement of quality is the most important thing in kindergarten. I agree that quality is the most important thing – that you have good employees in the kindergarten, that you have both safe catches to crawl up and well pedagogical arrangements. If quality is the most important, it must also be given priority. The multi-disciplinary children’s haillift has provided full child-sitting coverage for the children’s rights. The right provision of the Kindergarten Act ensures that those born before the end of August of the year for which the children's home is applied for are entitled to take place during August. The proposal we are now considering is similar to the proposal of the Red-Green Government, which came all the way to the tame of its period in the government offices. It was not prioritised until the fall of 2013 had been lost. Today's recording system – I repeat this – is as good as it was during the time of the red-green government. I understand that today's right making can be frustrating for some families with children. Therefore, it is the government's ambition to ensure greater flexibility in recording, but we will not do so by going into the scheme outlined in this proposal, which we believe is bureaucratic, rigid and very, very expensive. It is important to say that we let the consultation proposal from the previous government go. We have thus been told what different organisations think about the proposal for two admissions. The majority of the hearing bodies wish to extend the right to children's playground, but there is considerable disagreement as to which change is desirable. Some hearing bodies want two admissions, many of which are skeptical about what this will lead to in bureaucracy in municipalities, while other hearing bodies consider continuous admissions to be a better solution. Again, other hearing bodies, including the Education Association, which is one of the largest organisations organising kindergarten teachers in Norway, believe that the quality of kindergartens needs to be given priority before the right to space can be extended. So they believe that the most important promise in kindergarten is quality. The government has also said – and I repeat it – that we want to get back to Stortinget with information on today's situation and proposals to increase flexibility. But I think the Education Association also points to a central point: we need to ensure that flexibility in the admission is not extended at the expense of the quality of kindergarten. It is also the government's policy that we should prioritise and choose. The government's priority action to improve the quality of kindergarten, that is to say, to increase the skills of its employees, goes straight into what is at the heart: that the children should have a place to be, a place that is both safe and where they can evolve. It's an important project, on which this government is going to continue to invest. I think it has been a good debate, but I want to maintain – despite many arguments – the resistance to two admissions this year and only in parentheses note that it has never been the Right Party's policy either.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1123	We hear that the Right and Government will be investing in quality in kindergartens, and that you are concerned that there is not enough quality to expand the offer. As it is now, the government cuts 4 100 existing kindergartens because there are cash-assisted children who have those places. Why couldn't you leave that appropriation, so that there were more kindergartens available, and so that you could start with what you call two kindergartens, flexible babysitting or continuous nursery receptions? There's a crew there already today, but you have to reduce the crew now. Then I have to ask Røe Isaksen about the commitment to competence, which amounts to 1594 kroner per kindergarten in Norway. How long are we going to wait to get enough skills so that we can use the 4,100 places that are there now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1130	I just want to repeat my point from the post, that it's the exact same rights to kindergarten this year as it was last year. So there's no change in that. It is that when cash support is improved, just as when the red-green government provided the cash support, calculations are made of how it will affect the demand for nursery facilities – which also has consequences for municipalities. Having said that, I see – I am also pleased – that very many municipalities are offensively betting in kindergartens. Several municipalities today have overcoating. I think it's a very good policy that a local priority is to take care of the state's minimum requirements. With regard to the competence of kindergartens, I fully agree that we need to do more. That is why this year we are now focusing more on building skills in kindergarten than ever before, and we are planning to continue this effort, because the quality and content of kindergarten is the most important project of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1140	The 4,100 places that were cut because of the cash support are places that are already there. Why couldn't you leave them there and let the children born after 1 September be allowed to be there and use those places, and that only the funding was maintained? Why don't you put more emphasis on skills when you put so much emphasis on the 10 million. Is the budget included?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1145	First of all, when calculating the number of places to support municipalities, it is natural for the state to withdraw something from the framework, because it is assumed that more people will apply for cash support when this scheme is improved. That kind of calculation is going on all the time. Then it's the municipalities that decide if they want to go above the minimum state level, but I stress that the exact same rules for children's rights apply this year as last year. In terms of competence, I fully agree that we could do even more. We added a little extra compared to what the red-green government had presented, but the level of competence in kindergarten is not finished with this budget. The quality of the babysitting is going to be the big project for this government out of the whole period and hopefully another period too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1152	If quality is the big project, one could understand it if a cut the permissions for two recordings and applied it to the quality of the kindergarten instead – but one did not. One used it on completely different things: cash support and what it was now. One took money from the nursery on the first attempt. It's just not like an initial rise. I think it's the Prime Minister who's right: some areas have to be down priorities – the nursery is clearly one of them. It's good that the red-green dishes – to call it that – the dishes we had last year are still in debt. They were quite good, they were introduced into a broad settlement. The special thing is that we've had a lot of agreement that they have to be even better. Now two recordings were carefully canceled, one could say – with a series of adjectives that I did not want to record. The question then is: does this mean that the government will rather seek the direction of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party stand for, simply running recording? Is running recording what you're looking for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1159	I repeated the adjectives twice, so that it would be possible to record them down. The point was that we canceled two recordings because it's a bureaucratic system, it's a very centralized system, and it's a system that, in the worst case, will cause some of the positive developments in many municipalities, where you have a more flexible recording than one recording, to get hurt. What is on the government platform, which we relate to, is that we should facilitate – I don't remember exactly the wording – more flexibility in recording. I think the representative Solhjell instead had a sort of nervous that two recordings were more than one recording, and four recordings were more than two. I fully agree with that – so far my math skills extend. But it's just as full that if you look really, you see that in those municipalities that actually have more flexibility, it's a bad solution to introduce a centralized model with two recordings. In the worst case scenario, this will result in less flexibility for parents than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1168	I understand that we have to wait for what kind of model comes. I think it is completely wrong that two recordings will lead to less flexibility or remove possibilities that are there today. On the contrary, it would mean more babysitting places at the bottom, which would make even more municipalities possibly add something to their national dishes. The reason why they can do that today is because they have that space of opportunity. My other question is simple, because I think – I hope at least – that regardless of the model, we can become a few that if more parents are to have children's gardening more quickly, more children's gardening is required. Is it the ambition of the Minister of Knowledge that in the next budget there should be more kindergartens in Norway, not less?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1177	I have read Solhjell's book on budgetary work in the government, which is very interesting to bring with me. The Minister of Knowledge has great ambitions, but this must also be done through budgetary procedure within the Government. But it's quite obvious that only if we're going to maintain the right we have today will we have to build more places as the children's balls increase. It's impossible to imagine getting more flexibility if the municipalities don't have the opportunity to actually do it. I think that's an important point. There's only one thing I want to mention, and that's that priorities are also important. We omitted the proposal for two admissions. We got $300 million. kr extra for further training of teachers – an extra research effort of 300 million. kr. It is clear that it is not exactly in the kindergarten sector, but it is important for Norway as a country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1184	The councils are in several replies in the line change busy pointing to what he calls the world of reality. One of those who live in the real world – I believe – is the City Council in Bergen, Harald Victor Hove, who is out in the Official Journal of Bergen and tells about how reality is experienced for a municipality of a certain size. That's where we see that Bergen got a cut across the 18 million mark. kr. Last week, the number of applicants for kindergartens arrived, and in Bergen, the number of applicants rises by 65 more than a year earlier – an increase that is in conflict with the assumptions made by the government and which is not covered by the appropriations allocated to them. Then the question will be asked: Will the government compensate the municipalities where parents have actually used their freedom of choice and rather chosen kindergarten rather than cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1191	I won't comment on whether Bergen's school bureau always lives in the real world – I know him well. But that's a good point. A calculation in a budget work will always be a calculation, and the assumption for that calculation – which is initially no different from the one used by the red-greens – is that if you increase the cash support and make that scheme a little more favourable, more people will take cash support and fewer applications for childcare space. It has been the norm and the starting point, which also has good research coatings. But it's a calculation, and we don't know if you hit 100 pst. safety. But e.g. In 2012, when there was also a conversion of the cash support, the municipalities were overcompensated for it, it turned out in retrospect – approx. 400 million. NOK, if I do not remember correctly. It was not natural for the state to withdraw that money again, as the municipalities were allowed to keep too much. So there's no tradition that the state initially takes on something other than the calculations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1200	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1205	The world is not Easter. The right again talks about kindergartens, but with mild coercion, through the debate on this proposal for a representative. Before the election, a lot of right-wing talk about kindergartens, and they gave the faint impression that it was quick fix to put in place both a flexible and a possible running recording. But since September, and especially after they laid out their budget, it has been strangely quiet. That's why I have to say that I've been excited about what they should add to to ensure more kindergartens, but here the government disappoints. That I'm disappointed, I'm sure neither government council nor government parties are concerned, but they should be aware that there are some young children's parents who are disappointed in the action. The red-green government started the escalation to two recordings, something right and the Progress Party early went out and characterized as defensive. Then I wonder what the new government characterises its own efforts as. Offensive nursery policy is hardly the key, and the freedom of choice for many in the future is likely to be cash support or cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1214	The representative Mant from the Workers' Party called for the government parties to be put forward. I'm even willing to give them a face: we now want a flexible babysitting. The progress party was also behind the kindergarten agreement with several parties here in Stortinget, and was very pleased with it. The progress party was also involved in fighting for full child care coverage, and we managed to do so together with the private kindergartens. We succeeded together, through cooperation with the privates. Without them, we couldn't have done that. It was a long time inside the Workers' Party and SV to cooperate with the private kindergartens at the time, but we had no choice. But we were able to get full babysitting. The sitting government wants – as I said – continuous recording. However, we also want to know how to solve this in the best possible way with the municipalities – not that it should be managed from top to bottom. We're going to do this together with the municipalities. The red-greens now come – after eight years in government, after losing the election – with a proposal to have two annual babysittings. Yes, there is a touching impatience in the former red-greens. They've had eight years to figure out the solution. Now the former government sees solutions, they see the light, and it seems to me that they also have the best solutions. But it was just in the government they could have solved this, but then they didn't choose to do it. There are thousands of kindergartens around the municipalities that after eight years with the red-green do not have a continuous recording. Some municipalities have prioritised it, and some municipalities have done it. But for us, it is also important to discuss the content of kindergarten, the quality of kindergarten, and not least that municipalities also treat municipal and private kindergartens equally. Some municipalities do this practice very well and have got these current recordings. The municipalities have a challenge that we have to help them with. That is why we need to engage in dialogue, so we need to find solutions. It should not be like that in the future – and that is what I want to give face to – that you have to give birth on the right date in order to have kindergartens in Norway. We're going to solve this together with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1228	In Norway we have good kindergarten offers. We have a good education offer. It's very good, but I'm very happy to be part of a government that will more, which will constantly have attention to quality and content, both in kindergarten and education, and that it is prioritised in budget work. Quality is about putting in place qualified staff, it is about training enough staff, it is about continuing training and the addition of the staff in kindergartens, and it is about putting in place a range of kindergartens that represent a diversity of form and content. That's quality. We've also been on a different topic, and it's non-discrimination between the public and private kindergartens. It's also a grip on quality. As I remembered instead, the other person promised it would be in place. This government has taken the first step in the last piece that was left to get it in place, and we believe that non-discrimination is also important to ensure quality in the private sector. I have noticed that today the importance of increased quality in the offer is clearly degraded, especially by the Center Party. There's nothing to talk about with quality – now it's two recordings. Then it was so good that Solhjell confirmed that they had broken their promises because both the number of places and the quality and content were more important. So one had to give priority. For us, too, it is important to give priority and to ensure quality. So we've got a clear distinction. I could almost have dropped this part of my post, because the council said it so well: the red-greens refer to this matter as if there is one solution, and now they have one more solution that will apply to everyone. I struggle very hard to see that when it's such a rush to have a certain date, it's great if we get two specific dates. Then I have to admit, I have a lot of kids myself. I didn't think about the date. I just have to admit that. We get kids distributed a little bit more, and we should take that into account in our kindergarten offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1243	The president thinks it's fine with confessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1246	I think in essence it has been a bit strange to imagine from the right parties in this debate. When we say that we have a goal of making the nursery reception more flexible for the families of young children by moving from one annual nursery reception to two annual nursery receptions, others – and then the high-representatives – say that we should have gone much further. But then they go in the opposite direction. It is only in 2014 that 7 000 kindergartens are being reduced, prices are being increased, and our steps are being reversed towards more flexible admissions. That's why it seems strange to say that you'll go much further than what this proposal and what the red-green government offered, when you're actually going the other way. Those who are injured in this are, of course, the families of young children, who do not get the flexibility they need to have kindergarten when they need it, and the ability to combine work and care. The extension of the number of kindergartens and the right to kindergartens has been one of the largest freedom projects in the field of family policy in modern times. Space in kindergarten is important for the children themselves – in terms of learning later in life, in terms of the ability to acquire language, motor skills, social intercourse, etc., and we gradually know how important kindergarten and a good preschool offer are for learning later in life. But also for parents, this is about freedom, because most people want to work. This is precisely what we see in the example from Bergen, which I referred to in my question to the Council of State. It is not that parents necessarily choose what the government wants them to choose, namely cash support in front of kindergarten. On the contrary: according to the government's assumptions in the budget, the number of applicants increases, and then it becomes difficult for municipalities. The mountain is not a unique example; we have similar examples from Elverum, Malvik, Tønsberg, Oslo, Skien, Lillesand, Fredrikstad, Larvik, Kristiansand, Gjøvik – and the list goes on and on across municipalities that are going to struggle with this. I think the government should have announced that they will return to the revised budget with an assessment of whether maybe these municipalities should be compensated when the parents do not choose what the government has set up. The right-hand side's freedom of choice is job or care, while our freedom of choice is work and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1260	This has been an exciting debate. It is clear that this government is to put in place a flexible recording solution for parents and children, and I am pleased with that. At the same time, we get strong criticism from the former government parties because this cannot be done quickly enough. This is a little special all the time they spent eight years doing nothing, and when they did something – after losing the election – they sent most of the bill to the next government. They also sent over the final bill for full equal treatment, because it was also a promise that they did not keep. And the proposal for two admissions, to which they simply proposed a start-up grant, did not provide the necessary flexibility either. We agree that today's right clause may seem unfair to those who have children who are 1 year old on 1 September, but we need to have solutions that are suitable for the municipalities, and investing in two recordings will lead to some children – those who are 1 year old right after the other admission – waiting until they are one and a half years old. So this doesn't solve the challenges. I just read in the magazine Kindergarten.no, where employees in the kindergarten have spoken about their job. Some of the headlines were: ‘Experience meaningful’, ‘The best job’, ‘Think as lucky as we are’, ‘A privilege’. It's important that we get a high degree of flexibility, but when I deliver the most precious thing I have, to kindergarten employees, I'm glad that those who take care of her have these attitudes. The quality work and the bet on the employees are then the most important thing for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1269	Now I think the government parties could stop blaming the previous government for not being able to implement their election promises. We built 62,000 new kindergartens, and I am very proud of that, and that does not prevent the government from implementing the policy of choice. It has been interesting to hear what representatives from the government parties say: Yes, but we have really done nothing but what you did, because when you increased the cash support, you took down the kindergarten seats too. Yes, that's to the extent of an inner logic in it, but it's not these places that we're really talking about. This happened after the government parties had negotiated with the Christian People's Party, but it was the government that made an additional proposition where 2,900 children's courts were cut. It was the places that would contribute to that flexibility — and not for those kids who received increased cash support, but there are actually several other children who are not covered by kindergarten rights who need nursery facilities. We note that the new government has given priority to private kindergarten owners in front of kindergarten children. If we're going to get the flexibility that more of the government parties are asking for and saying is going to come, I'm absolutely sure of one thing: it's not possible to get that flexibility without having more babysitting places. It's not useful to say that you have to talk to the municipalities to figure out what this is like. The answer from Kommune-Norge is going to be: We need more kindergartens. There is also no point in pushing red tape in front of us, because if we are to get more flexibility for those children who do not have kindergartens today, there must be more kindergartens there. I agree that we should bet on quality, and our government has done so. We made that visible in the kindergarten message. We also made it clear how we were going to reach increased babysitting for those who were born after 1 September, so it should not come as a surprise to anyone in this room that we had plans for it. But there's a little bit of a secret that when you're going to bet so much on quality, you're going to add 10 million. kr extra for quality work in kindergartens, because there are more than 6000 kindergartens in Norway, and they receive about NOK 1500 each. And if that's what the right hand parts are going to bet in terms of quality in kindergarten, then it's going to be a very long time before they figure out a model that allows them to get the flexibility they're saying you're going to have. There is a long way between the new ideas in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1282	First, I would like to say that this has been a fine debate, because it makes very clear the political lines of family policy we want. We'll be biased and modern, while the right-hand side wants to go back in time. We've heard articles from several that they need to have a greater knowledge base. It's been repeated infinitely, and I get the need to be able to defend it out of it. But obviously they had that knowledge last year. We agree that we need flexibility – flexibility is important. When the Progress Party and the Right are talking about it, they say that two recordings are not good enough. It's not flexible enough. No, we can agree on that: the goal is not that, but the goal is to get more recordings in the future. That was the beginning of what we did. Here's a contradiction that's pretty hard to explain, because what we did was to start. The progress party is standing here and saying that they want full flexibility. But where does it say? It's not in the budget, because it's cut. When the Granddalen of the Progress Party talks about the robbery of employees, I will follow up the representative Aasrud said: If there is robbery of employees in the kindergarten sector, we think it is serious. Then the Council of State has to intervene and look at what is really a robbery. Yes, this representative Mangt is aware of the desire of the Progress Party for flexibility, but it is only a wish. But ask councillor Horne, because she had the solution last year when she was a representative. She had the solution to how it should be done, and then I might think it's a good tip to the representative from the Progress Party that they have to try to see what was really in her knowledge at the time. If the result after eight years of our government is so bad, I can't believe that it's not possible to agree to a proposal for two babysittings now, along with the proposal that is now in the vote, that we have two babysittings in the year during the current ageing period. I don't understand. With the Progress Party in government, the representatives of the Progress Party can also find solutions in terms of good desires for flexibility, but this has not been done. Well, the working party is busy with quality. Report has been referred to. Art. No. 41 for 2008-2009 Kindergarten quality. We have submitted a pediatric report, and we have presented a strategy for the competence of future pediatric staff and competence recruitment. It is wrong to say from this pulpit that quality, competence and recruitment were not prioritised by the previous government. It was, but in parallel to that, we built out several kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1308	When the representative Svein Harberg from the pulpit says that quality is not important to the centre party, I was forced to take the floor because it is wrong. The center part is of quality in the nursery, and it was also said in my post. On the other hand, no progress party and right-wing studies can be found that indicate that the quality has become poorer due to capacity expansion. That should be a better reason. The true face when it comes to action is that it was cut 240 million. kr in the budget as soon as the government took care of it. It is difficult to follow the opinion of the Council of State that two nursery receptions should provide less flexibility than one nursery reception when the municipalities also have more money to implement it. Then flexibility will increase. You get a right to two recordings, the municipalities get more money to manage this, and you can do a continuous recording, insofar as the municipalities have the ability to do it. It'll give you more flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1317	I have a few comments. First to Aasrud's posts: I note that Aasrud insists that non-discrimination between the children in public and private kindergartens is not to bet on the children. I think that's a strange reasoning. So when we give money to the private kindergartens, they go to the owners, but when we give money to the public kindergartens, they go to the children. That's not my perception of reality. It was also a little strange, but it just hangs there, that Aasrud confirms – and I believe her – that the Workers' Party is concerned about quality and quality. Still, it was said to be too bad of us when we put 10 million. kr at the top of what the Workers' Party would give. The logic of this is a little bit hard to understand. Mandt said in her first post that the Right has been for two recordings, and she suggested that she expected us to vote for this. I just want to make it clear that we've never been for two recordings. There are many people here who have mentioned the 240 million. kr as the red-green government introduced into the budget, as escalating to two admissions, and that this was the beginning. I have called many municipalities, and none of them see it as the beginning of two recordings. Either you have two recordings or you don't have two recordings. The municipalities were very happy to get the 240 million. kr, for them they could not use to get two recordings this year. So it was essentially free money. That's why it was terribly brutal that that money disappeared when they had prepared their budget work based on the red-green government's proposal. But everyone I've asked confirms that if you're going to have two recordings, you have to have two recordings, and it costs 1.5 billion. kr. So there will be no kindergarten seats in 2014 with that money. It probably wasn't real kindergartens that it would trigger. The last thing I want to say is that it's been a little bit of a fuss about getting knowledge of the flexibility that's in kindergarten today. If you want to, you'll have to listen. We asked again after this time at the previous government. We did not get an answer. We collect information. We experience that there is a lot of flexibility and good solutions. The Council of State has promised that he has ambitions to fight for the kindergartens in budget work. I have ambitions to fight with the Council of State to give the municipalities more flexibility, because local adjustments are to be made here. That's the municipality that can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1334	I agree with the representative of Grande on one point, namely that this has been a bit strange. But I think the representative, Grande and I, we don't agree on who's playing nice. I think the SV and several others appear in a sort of liberation rush after a dissolved sect of reason. What was difficult for eight years has suddenly become very simple. I don't think – if you're completely honest – that that's the way it is. It is said that we are hiding behind concepts such as ‘quality’, such as: The Education Association says that today's proposal is going to go down. It is said that we are hiding behind concepts such as ‘equivalent treatment’, which is a broken promise from the previous government. And it's said that we're hiding behind "knowledge acquisition." We know that we don't have the knowledge we need, and that the representative Harberg was in, we've asked several times without getting it. There are no official statistics on the number of applications for kindergarten places. There are no statistics on the number of municipalities with a continuous admission or space guarantee. Those numbers and that knowledge don't exist, and that it's supposed to be hiding behind something, I don't seem very real. In other words, quality, equal treatment and knowledge acquisition. We also want to look at the nursery reception, and the last term to play with from several of the red-greens is "flexibility". But flexibility is just that: we can't have one solution for everyone. I mentioned it instead and would like to repeat it: there are municipalities that do it in different ways today, and forcing one solution for everyone is not flexibility. Instead, we're going to pick up the knowledge and learn from the municipalities that do it in other ways and let the municipalities control it themselves gradually. Finally, I would also like to say that I fully agree with my colleague, Mr Harberg, that the date is probably not what you have in your head while the children are being created. That's enough flexibility to focus on right then.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1351	This has been a touching debate to listen to. It has been said very interesting from the pulpit and strange from the previous government. We could hear Bård Vegar Solhell from SV say in his post that the previous government had to get in place right to kindergarten, so they had to do something with the price, so it was non-discrimination, and only then things started to happen. In my history book, and probably in this house's history book, it was probably strictly the Bondevik government that introduced this, after pressure from the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party. Then I came to the Workers' Party, which in 2002 was actually against this agreement, but one had to take care, because you couldn't stand on the outside of that opposition at the time. With regard to the implementation of promises, the representative Rigmor Aasrud stood on this pulpit and said that the government parties now had to stop blaming the previous government – a breach of promises and one and the other. As far as I can see from the history book, and it's not that old either, it was probably the new government that had to ensure full equal treatment of kindergartens. With regard to the kindergarten debate in Norway, in recent years, as far as I can remember, there has also been a great deal of focus on the fact that it was only when you got almost full kindergarten coverage that you had to take the private kindergartens. Around the whole of Kommune-Norge it was very important to take the private kindergartens – at least in the eyes of the government parties – because according to these parties private kindergartens were most concerned with profit and not with running good kindergartens. According to the history book, the first kindergarten in Norway was private, and it was located in Trondheim. There were private solutions at the time, too, at the end of the 1800s. I think it actually went very well. When the representative of Grande says that the Labour Party is now for work and care, there must be something new. Now, if you have a different vision, why didn't you do it in the eight years that everyone was going to have? That's the question. Then I can't believe it: in the Labour Party representative, it also sounds as if this government is not giving priority to quality, is not concerned with competence and quality. Then it must have been very poor the budget that the previous government disbursed, because this government increased the competence allocation by 10 million. NOK, in addition to the fact that we do not take a step-up to two nursery beds. Then it must be very bad what the previous government delivered, and I am proud to belong to a Right Party government that wants knowledge and competence. Finally, Sonja Mandt from the Workers' Party thought it should happen if it was so bad for the kindergarten sector in terms of employees. I would also ask the representative, Mr Mandt, to read the answers to the Committee on Budgets last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1362	First to the previous speaker, who is so impressed by the government that was able to grant 10 million. to the quality of the kindergartens on a country-by-country basis. Well, we can put it together with that government sucks, just for Bergen, $18 million. kr, which will reduce the number of nursery places. Obviously, if you ask people who don't have kindergarten today, if they feel that the government is responding to what is their real needs, I think the answer is quite obvious. During the state council's speeches, I took note of a fairly fine attempt to write the story as you would like, when he stressed that today's recording rules are exactly the same as the recording rules as they were in 2013. That's right, but it's because the government, because the legislation could actually have looked quite different, if it hadn't been for the government to cut our proposal to increase the appropriations by 242 million. kr, which would have extended the period from 1 September to 1 November. There are some kids born in that period as well, and the kids are not entitled to babysitting for one reason, namely that the Right Party and the Advance Party would rather spend the money on something else. Røe Isaksen goes on to say that it would have been so incredibly rigid and bureaucratic to have two annual recordings. The question is whether it is less rigid to have one annual recording, which is the government's answer to the issue. Svein Harberg is up in the pulpit and claims that the government is working hard to get more flexibility for the young children's parents. Then you can ask your parents: Is the reversal of the proposal to extend the right to children's playground to children born before 1 November, which was previously 1 September and which is still 1 September, a step in the right direction, or in the other direction? We can ask young children's parents in Bergen, is a cut of 18 million. kr the beginning of a more flexible recording, or is it a step in a completely different direction? I want to repeat what I challenged the Council of State, and I have not really received any specific answer, namely how to deal with the municipalities that have residents who choose anything other than the government has provided, namely children's garden space rather than cash support – for Bergen alone, minus 18 million. kr. On the contrary, the Council of State has said that there is no tradition of getting behind and doing that kind of grip. What remains from the debate as the big news is that the government announces that it is not about compensating municipalities that have gone on a click, thanks to the government's miscalculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1374	It was the representative Harberg who made me take the floor again, because what remains after this debate is that we have some common ambitions that more people will have the opportunity to have their kids in kindergarten. We had a government that went to the choice of new ideas and better solutions. This would have been an excellent debate if the government had said something about what the new ideas and the new solutions were in the kindergarten field, but what we have heard is that you have to figure out more, you have to create a bureaucracy to find out who has flexible arrangements, who has two recordings, etc. So you have to create a bureaucracy to figure out what's obvious: if more kids are going to have children's playgrounds, the municipalities have to be able to build the kindergartens. What's left is that, yes, you've increased the appropriations for competence by 10 million. kr. That's good. We increased this budget by 40 million. kr. I think we all agree that this is good. But what's the final line in this debate is that we're spending 700 million. kr less in kindergarten, money used for tax bills and other things that the right-wing government puts in front of the kids, and I find that regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1381	Thank you for a good debate. I'll try not to be polemic and not extend the debate. I just want to underline two things. One is, when I say that in the worst case, a two-entry system becomes less flexible, it applies in those municipalities that today have a more continuous recording. There are quite a number of municipalities that have. It is clear that in those municipalities where there is a great deal of flexibility with regard to nursery admissions, a two-entry scheme in the worst case could mean less flexibility if introduced. The second is that I simply described what was the story of calculations, also under the red-green government. What the government does comes back to the Stortinget in the revised budget and budget. But historically – at least for the last eight years, and probably before that too – it is the situation I described, that has been the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1390	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1404	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1418	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1432	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1438	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1477	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1485	During the debate, Sveinung Rotevatern has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Left. The proposals have been made available to the representatives. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Size Requests the Presidentship of the Storting to prepare proposals for a registration scheme for those who seek out the Storting on behalf of themselves or others to influence the Storting on matters pending its consideration.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a registration system for those seeking political direction in the departments or in the Prime Minister’s office on behalf of themselves or others in order to influence the government in matters for consideration.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1525	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Sonja Mandt on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of two annual babysitting during the current ageing period.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1559	Case No. 6–8 is the second processing of laws and concerns Acts 41, 42 and 43. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-25.ana.ud1903e1669	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what happened.
