ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e26	The called alternate of the Vestfold County, Steinar Gullvåg, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e41	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Siv Jensen, Vidar Helgesen and Monica Mæland for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e48	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. On 13 March, the government issued a press release on a new employer’s tax regime that sent shock waves through large parts of Nordic business. Hundreds of companies are told that the employer’s fee goes – for someone from 0 – up to 14.1 pst. from 1 July. North Norway has a bill of between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr. 42 000 jobs are affected in the three northernmost counties. Only within transport, there are no more than 14 000 employees, which corresponds to approx. 6 pst. of total employment in the national part of the country. The transport industry in northern Norway — like the rest of the country — has consistently low profitability. In northern Norway, 294 enterprises had negative operating performance in 2012. Thus, with the introduction of a full employer’s fee, two thirds of the operating profit will disappear. Businesses will go bankrupt! With this serious rug many ask if all the stones have turned. On 21 January, the Prime Minister told Nordlys that the whole of North Norway would have a low employer’s fee, and as late as 5 February, the Minister of Finance replied to Stortinget that: ‘The scope of the new conditions is somewhat uncertain and the government is actively working towards rapid clarification within the EU Commission and ESA.’ There is no doubt that the government has worked quickly, for, as you know, the resolution came on 13 March. But what happened between 5 February and 13 March, which made the government sure that transport and the other sectors must be fully paid for by employers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e62	Let me first say that I am pleased that the differentiated employer's fee scheme is now being continued until 2020. There has been broad political agreement that there is one important instrument in both industrial policy and economic policy. Then I am also pleased with the work that the previous government put down to ESA, to ensure the best possible system. What now seems to be happening is that we can get 31 new municipalities into the scheme, and that's good. At the same time, last June – that is, before this government joined – the EU decided that certain sectors would be excluded from the scheme. It has been unclear and remains unclear how this envelope will happen. For this reason, the government has worked – and we continue to do so – to be in dialogue with ESA in order to achieve the best possible demarcation of the sector exemptions. That being said, it is now even more important for this government to work towards the revised budget, where this will be put before the Stortinget, with appropriate and best-possible compensatory measures. There, of course, we also have the challenge that State aid legislation can get in the way. Therefore, the government is now actively working to find the best possible means of compensating for this. But we are still in ongoing dialogue with ESA to get the narrowest possible definition of the sector exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e71	We are all very pleased with what has been passed on, and what has come into place related to a regionally differentiated employer's fee. Of course, we are also very pleased with the new municipalities involved and the new areas. But I still do not feel that we have received an answer to what happened from the moment when it was unclear – even for today's finance minister and today's government – until it suddenly became so clear in so few days that it is impossible to continue working on this. I am pleased with the signals that it is actually working further, but I have a feeling, which I hope the Minister of Finance can demand, that one has given up working in a way to include all these sectors in a differentiated employer's fee. Therefore, compensation schemes are particularly important. I would also ask the Minister of Finance to confirm what has been said in the past to compensate for crowns. But the most important thing is actually to work for integrating these sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e80	As I said in my previous reply, we are still working towards ESA to make the sector exemptions as narrow as possible, and we are working to get to Stortinget with the best possible compensatory measures that do not conflict with State aid legislation. The answer to the question of what has happened is that what has happened is that time is running out. 1 July is the time for the implementation of a new scheme. It was a time limit to which the previous government dealt; it is a time limit to which this government relates. This means that we must have clarified this also to Stortinget, so that we can notify a system that ensures that we can continue the very basis of a differentiated employer’s fee, which is important for all the municipalities affected by it. Then, of course, this government also disagrees with all the exemptions that are adopted and imposed on it by the European Union. That said, it is also good that shipbuilding is now part of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e89	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e92	There is no doubt that this affects business, not least in the districts. Last week, the State Council told Sanner to compensate for crowns. Erna Solberg said in the Questionnaire that you should have general measures, for which you are working, and Siv Jensen now says that you should have appropriate measures to do this. My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry: How does the Minister of Industry intend to work to find the best possible solution for the economic actors affected, to compensate, and what kind of action does the Minister of Industry think is best based on the situation we are in? Would she like to work for it to be a crown for crown compensation, or would you like general measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e99	First of all, we need to know which exceptions apply, as the Minister of Finance explained. Then we have to work on which arrangements to compensate this. So there is a work going on, and the government must be allowed to do so before it comes to the Grand Duchy with a solution to this in the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e104	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e107	My follow-up question is to the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance said that he would come back to the matter in the revised budget. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to make it clear that this is also absolutely necessary. For, as mentioned, something happens on 1 July. What happens to the sole proprietors is that they get a huge increase in their expenses, and we know that the margins are small for many of the companies involved. The government has in several ways said that we should compensate heads for heads. My question then is, at what level are you talking about heads for heads? Is it at farm level, or is it at sector level?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e117	I think what's important now is that the government doesn't work in a vacuum when we're trying to define what kind of instruments we're going to get to the Stortinget. That is why we are now in dialogue with both Nordic politicians and relevant business organisations to be able to identify what will be perceived as good and effective instruments, which, at the same time, do not conflict with State aid legislation. I am of the opinion that we have to work far to assess what kind of action we can take – perhaps a little untraditional too, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e124	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e127	State councils say that they want to work for two tracks: both compensatory measures and against ESA. I think it's important that we now make sure that all the rocks are actually turned around in terms of ESA. In recent days, there have been media redundancies in which various experts and others who have a bearing on EU and EU legislation have called for the new rounds to go with the EU because there may be other types of legislation that can help us in the sector exemptions, both in terms of narrowing them down and perhaps simply to change the scheme, so that the major problems referred to here do not arise from business both in the north and in other parts of the country. My question to the Council of State is: are all the stones turned around, and will you take the initiative to go the rounds that are recommended from more, to see if you can get out of a situation that is difficult as it looks today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e134	As I have said several times, we have been and are still in dialogue with ESA to find out how we can make the exceptions as narrow as possible. It's important. It is reasonably clear that the EU itself does not have clear definitions of what these sector exemptions should cover, and those definitions are essential to get in place so that the government can make the best possible efforts to compensate for this. The EU decision was taken correctly last June, and in all subsequent processes, dialogue with ESA has been established to try to narrow it down and find the clearest possible definitions of what the sector exemptions will cover. The work is still in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e139	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e142	The changes made by the government in the case of a differentiated employer’s fee have dropped like a bomb in many places, especially in the north, of course, but also in the districts. One of the most surprising things was that it is a finance minister from the Progress Party who is now sugaring on the idea of a whole transport industry in the districts, because the system of reduced employers’ fees is established to compensate for geographical differences and inequalities, and it is more expensive to live in the districts and far north – it is far from the markets. There is also a political conscious approach to maintaining jobs, housing and activity in the districts. There is a logical flaw in what the government has done when the transport industry is no longer involved. Will the government initiate the reintroduction of the transport industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e149	The logical flaw, as the representative Karin Andersen calls it, is then made by the EU. It was also done under the knowledge and will of the previous government. I believe that both the previous government and this government have worked hard and intensively to provide the best possible differentiated employer fee by 2020. The important thing in this is that all municipalities are still in the scheme they have been in, as well as 31 new municipalities. Then it is absolutely right that the decision taken by the European Union last June means that some industries will be exempted from the scheme. The job we are doing now is to narrow it down as much as possible so that the damage is minimised for the industries concerned. Secondly, we are working on the best possible compensatory measures, and I believe that is also in the interest of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e154	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e157	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The eagerness to give bonuses is high both here and there, whether it's the trade union movement that's the partner of SpareBank 1, whether it's the state that's the partner, or whether it's private. In the last few days, we've seen that leaders in several state companies are still getting very high wages, and with bonuses, pension schemes and other benefits, we're getting into considerable amounts. Helge Lund in Statoil, for example, got $7 million. kr in basic salary in 2013, while different bonuses, benefits and schemes amount to nearly 6,8 million. kr. Rune Bjerke in DNB, who has invited to split layers, got a bonus increase last year at 26 pst. In both these companies, annual work and costs are cut, but management fees are not included in the savings. On the contrary, if the company is given a large cut, the top managers are rewarded with an additional wage increase. For many, this is quite hard to understand. This is nothing new. The growth in management wages has been a sustained trend, leading wages rose twice as fast as usual in the decade up to 2007, according to the Norwegian School of Economics. The second major trend in the last 20 years, including in Norway, is the increasing use of variable wage compensation schemes, such as bonuses. The growth of management wages is worrying for all those who want to avoid a society with greater differences, it is demanding in the meeting with the wage settlement, and it is also not entirely in line with the government's stated objectives of moderation in the management salaries of companies owned by the State. My question to the Minister of Industry is what the Minister of Industry will do through the ownership dialogue with the companies and through the government representatives in the boards to slow down top management wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e170	Our system is such that it is the responsibility of the board to determine directors' salaries. Those management salaries shall be in line with the guidelines of the State. For our part, it is that we have said that the management salaries should be competitive, but they should not be wage-leading, and they should contribute to moderation. That's our starting point. So it's so that in several areas we can follow up on this and will follow up on this. One thing we do through ownership dialogue with the companies, where we communicate what is the government's view of leadership wages. The other thing we can do and will do is review this in the context of the ownership message – i.e. whether the government's guidelines are good enough. The third thing we can do is, of course, look at the legislation related to this in terms of transparency, etc., which has also been a debate on. So we're going to follow this up. It is important that state companies follow state guidelines. If it doesn't, of course, have consequences, even when we select directors of the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e177	I would like to thank you for the reply from the Council of State. I am pleased that this is something the government and the Council of State will follow up with three concrete measures. What's then exciting is what signals the government gets into the ownership message that comes in this spring. Is it true, then, that in the ownership notification there could already be a change of direction in terms of top management remuneration in the rented state company?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e187	Yes, this is some of what we want to look at. I will not forge the content of the ownership message, it is not finished yet, but we will get back to that when it is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e192	There will be follow-up questions – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e195	The Financial Committee was recently visited by the Folketry Fund. It is a fund that is very concerned with ownership and responsible ownership on behalf of the country. One of the interesting signals that came from there was that the narrower the circle of directors, bonuses and not least pension conditions, is, the more favorable it becomes to the leaders – perhaps because those who sit on the boards are leaders of other companies where the board members have only changed positions, and then in many cases you help each other. Switzerland has now agreed to add the decision to the general meeting in this kind of situation. My question is: is there something that will be assessed in the ownership message?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e202	I don't want to deny that we can make that assessment. But I believe in the division of labour that we have, that the board is responsible for determining directors' salaries. What we have to ensure is that the government follows the guidelines of the state. To me, of course, the board does. If not, it must have consequences for the government. In addition, I believe it is very important to have transparency around the total payments. We have to have openness, and we have to have cleanliness – they have to be easy to understand. This is something we get back to in the review we do in connection with the ownership message.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e209	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e212	In Norway, we have a flat pay structure, and there are small differences. The matter that came up about DNB, with the split layer, clearly challenged the moderation line. Although they haven't done anything illegal, it's an ethical challenge that lies there. Does the Council of State recognise that a leadership wage development out of course challenges the flat pay structure in Norway, and does the Council of State consider that this could be a problem in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e219	As I've said, it's the board that sets management wages. The Governing Board shall deal with national policies. This was the same before the government change as it is today. If the board doesn't, it can have consequences for the board. I take it for granted that the board is dealing with the applicable guidelines. So I'm not going to comment on individual wages and salaries in individual companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e226	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e229	This is a repetition in this room. There have been rumors from all parties that this is an unculture that one wants to stop. This was last debated on 19 March last, on the basis of an opinion of the Control Committee. Everyone agreed that the management salaries of publicly owned or leased companies are increasing more than those of the private companies, cannot continue. Everyone agrees – nothing happens. What the state council has now said is what has been said by all state councils – nothing is happening. I have two questions: Does the Council of State find this development serious, and is there something to stop – yes or no? Point two: Is it not appropriate to make the submission of minutes by government representatives at the General Assembly and to point out that the will of the State is not being followed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e236	I have little experience with repeaters in this room. But for this government, it is important to clarify what is our policy in this area: wages should be competitive, not pay, and moderation should be demonstrated. What we are doing now is to review this in the context of the ownership announcement to be promoted for Stortinget, hopefully before the summer, so that we will have a good debate related to this. It may then be appropriate to respond to the general meeting or the appointment of members of the Governing Board if the country's guidelines are not followed. But I stress that we are dealing with the decision of the board when they indicate that these are within the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e245	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e249	There's a lot of talk about moderation in pay terms this year. Usual workers have shown moderation in settlement after settlement in Norway. The government has not had any problems worrying about wage developments in, for example: The industry in Norway, but when it comes to the salary level of directors of state-owned companies, we only get answers where the Council of State hides behind words as guidelines and that it is, in fact, law, etc. But I'm a little busy with some moral assessments from the Minister of Industry. Now Statoil and herrings in coffee and peanuts are driving the employees, etc., while Helge Lund is getting a huge increase in his salary. I am fully aware that the Council of State can respond once again by referring to guidelines and reviews, etc., but I wonder: What does the Council of State think about these salaries? Does the Council of State think that it is decent that the Director of Statoil earns more than ten times as much as the Prime Minister of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e256	It is that the division of labour in terms of the responsibilities of the board is the same now as it was before the government change, when the party representing the representative is put in government. So it's the board that determines pay. What we can do, and what we'll do, is make sure that it's within the state's guidelines. So I've said, and I repeat, we're going to go through the state's guidelines. We go through the law related to this because we are concerned that we should be competitive, but not pay-paying.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e263	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e266	I have a question for the European Minister. After almost half a year in government, there is a picture of a government in a very passive state of EU and EEA legislation. Immediately after the government change, the government announced that a would reverse veto against the Postal Directive. It will make it more difficult to maintain postal transport throughout the country. So the government announced that one no longer has objections to the EU rail package IV. This could mean putting the railway out of competition. A few weeks ago, the municipal minister announced that one does not consider it possible to maintain a differentiated employer’s fee for all sectors. It's hard for the districts, especially in North Norway. Earlier this week, the Minister of Agriculture warned that a person is giving up the fight to produce fishmeal for animal feed, despite the fact that it is environmentally friendly, that it is free from genetically modified organisms, and that all the professional bodies, including in the EU, say that the EU’s requirements are not justified on a professional basis. The government also appears to have given up securing Norwegian banking customers through the so-called bank deposit guarantee, which provides Norwegian banking customers with much less protection for their savings than before. In addition, the government also appears to have given up the possibility of securing the position of NPISHs in relation to the public sector. The consequence of this could be that non-profit actors have to compete for tenders in line with commercial operators. I could fill up with even more examples. But the question is, what are the ambitions of this government towards the EU? Will one in some cases take care of Norwegian interests, even when they go across the EU, or will one in all cases, as I have just mentioned, be completely passive towards the EU and the EEA?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e279	I thank the representative Arnstad for having had a good review of various things that lie on this government's table, which have been on the table of former governments. It is true that we have an active European policy, but we have it based on the values, principles and policies of this government. Ensuring industrial competitiveness is not least. As a result, we want a level playing field for Norwegian businesses and their competitors in the EU. So let's do that. One important thing: we have, on the Norwegian side, been considerably reduced by legal acts. It sounds bureaucratic, but it's about, we're going to have to put in place the same rules for Norwegian companies that their competitors have. There was a significant aftermath from our predecessors. Then we have taken important initiatives in climate and energy policy. Energy is a heavy area for Norway. We have taken initiatives on a level playing field between airlines in Europe. We have also inherited some things, as it was referred to here, from previous governments. On the question of tendering rules for non-profit institutions serving households – the decision was taken last year. And similar for a differentiated employer's fee. As regards the issue of fishmeal in animal feed, the same is true: there have been decisions taken a long time ago, and we must therefore note that the former governments have done nothing to influence it. This is a government that places emphasis on policy implementation, but this is not a government that has retroactive effect. That's the starting point we need. So it's important that we now work to see what decisions are coming in two years, instead of caring more about the decisions that were taken by the EU two years ago. If we are to influence, we must look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e290	I am still not very reassured about the government's inaction to EU and EEA directives. Instead, I note that the government is constantly apologizing for what the EU has adopted while setting up a red-green government. Now it is not often that I use former leaders of the European Movement as a witness to truth for what I believe, but former leader of the European Movement, Paal Frisvold, says that last June the EU made a decision on the difference in the employer’s fee is quite possible. He says the train has not gone for the sector exceptions. This must be possible, for example: notifying the aid to these sectors under other State aid rules, if one so wishes. In order to give the Council of State an opportunity to say a little about the ambitions of the government, I would like to ask again: does the Council of State think that there might be reason to go further on this kind of initiative to which Frisvold referred when it comes to the fight to maintain the best possible differential employer's tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e299	As the Minister of Finance also mentioned earlier, we are now working to see how we can ensure the best possible results for Norway in terms of the differentiated employer fee. In the case of EU regulations, there are two sides, and you have to check both. The first page is when the legislation is drawn up. There went the train – or the trails – last year, in the first six months. The Commission presented a proposal in January, the decision was taken in June. But then it's the other side, and it's adaptations: seeing how to interpret and apply the law in a decent way. There is also room for action and opportunities for Norway, and that is where we are now – not on the general rules, but on how we can adapt them to Norwegian reality in the best possible way. There we work very actively towards the revised national budget. The question of State aid rules is interesting in this context. I can reassure the representative Arnstad that here we are at the ball, but Norway should be more at the ball in the first six months of last year when it came to regulatory development.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e306	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e309	A development that has been a cause of concern here in the United Kingdom is the transfer of power to agencies and supervision in the EU, which on an independent basis can make decisions and penalise Norwegian business. We then give more sovereignty than the EEA Agreement provides. Such an example we saw in winter, when the Council of State announced that ESA is now given the power to fine companies that violate the terms of the marketing of medicinal products. How many such waivers of sovereignty must we expect before the Storting is given the opportunity to discuss this in full?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e316	There is a long tradition in this room to deal with issues of waiver of sovereignty under the second paragraph of the Basic Law, Section 26, where there is a little interventional transfer of authority. All batches that have been in government during the lifetime of the EEA Agreement have participated in this type of transfer of powers. Then we have a challenge in that there are an increasing number of agencies and supervision during establishment in the EU that will have – and already have – more interventional powers than what we can accept in the framework of the Constitution and the EEA Agreement. Financial supervision is one such example. There we work hard to find a solution in dialogue with the EU and our EFTA/EEA partners, a solution that is within the Constitution, and a solution based on the two-pillar system of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e323	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e327	The representative Arnstad had a number of examples of topical issues that are very important to Norway, and asked what ambitions the government had. The Minister's answer was that the government has an active business policy with no retroactive effect, and almost everything that had gone wrong was due to the fact that the negotiations with the previous government had not led. Therefore, I will give the Minister a chance to say something about it as, among other things. liability for a differentiated employer's fee. What concrete ambitions does the government have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e332	As the Minister of Finance and Industry has also pointed out earlier today: we have ambitions to increase the number of municipalities that will receive a lower level of the employer’s fee. We have ambitions to ensure that the sector exemptions that were knocked on last June will be as narrowly applied as possible. We have ambitions to look at and clarify other concrete effects resulting from these changes, so that we can find measures that can mitigate these effects. So it's not like we, because the main question was settled last year, are now laying us flat. We are actively working, and we are coming back with concrete actions in the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e337	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e340	Here we have a government council with executive powers on a visit. But I sometimes wonder what kind of form the executive takes, because what we've seen now is a tremendous eagerness to unilaterally draw Norwegian positions in Brussels, without getting anything left for it. We saw that in the postal directive, we have seen it in the case of the railway case, and we saw it for a little while – until the court came – in the case of the ostetoll. I'm not surprised that this government is too free competition in postal and rail, but I'm surprised that one goes into discussions with the EU and gets flat before one starts negotiating, and I'm not trying to get anything left for the positions you give up. I have never heard that it is particularly good negotiation tactics. Therefore, I wonder why the government's line is to start negotiations with drawing Norwegian positions without getting anything back, and who has given this negotiating tactical council to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e349	It is hardly surprising to anyone, either in this room or in Brussels halls, that the parties currently in government want more competition in the postal market and more competition in the rail sector. There are positions that we have had for a long time – the Bondevik government presented proposals on the liberalisation of the postal market – so I don't think this is short to play in a negotiating context. Then it is important that we do not forget in this Chamber and in media debates that the main thing about the EEA Agreement is that we will be in the internal market. When I meet businesses around the country, they do not ask about all exceptions and special arrangements; they ask when we can get the legislation in place, so that we have the same rules as our European competitors. That is what creates values, that is the basis for our well-being, that we have a business that can compete – and compete well – under the same conditions as others. That's the main thing we should not forget when we lose track of the details.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e356	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e359	My question goes to Minister of Industry Monica Mæland. There are more than 500,000 individual enterprises registered in Norway, and although some of them have little or no activity, and many have other paid employment alongside running their enterprise, there are very many who feed on just being self-employed. It seems that the left is fundamentally good, and we want to make sure that more people do it, that is, create a job for themselves and maybe a few more. This is an engagement that it might look like we're kind of alone about in political Norway. Despite repeated promises, the previous government did nothing to improve the conditions of the self-employed. Nor does the new government have any obliging stakes in individual enterprises or self-employed persons in the government platform. The only thing that says about self-employed people is that they are to be exempted from the rules on collecting paper. That's good, but hardly any big bet. This is somewhat strange, all the time when both the Right and the Advance Party closed up wholeheartedly on a proposal from the Left in the previous magnificence, in which we together asked the then government to carry out an overall review of the conditions of individual enterprises and proposed to the Storting on concrete improvements specifically related to fiscal non-discrimination, social rights, simplification measures, access to capital and the arrangements and efforts of the public agency. My question is: why does the government show little initiative and little implementation when it comes to improving the conditions for self-employed workers in line with what they promised before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e374	I am absolutely concerned about the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most of them in Norway. 99 pst. has fewer than 100 employees, and very many have fewer than 100 employees. So when we make changes in the tax environment related to both property taxes and inheritance tax removal, this benefits small and medium-sized enterprises. When we have ambitions to simplify, this benefits all the small and medium-sized enterprises, because they have much less resources and less time to report to the authorities. When I have meetings with entrepreneurs to hear how we can facilitate more entrepreneurs, it is also about small and medium-sized enterprises. So we're definitely focusing on this. I am committed to facilitating small and medium-sized enterprises, and then perhaps this with simplification is the most important thing, because it frees time to do what you want to do, that is, to run your business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e381	I thank you for your answer. I understand that, at the general level, certain measures have been taken and certain measures taken. That is good, but I still miss what goes directly on the smaller businesses, on entrepreneurs and on individual companies. Then I would also like to highlight the need for it to be focused on facilitating women's bets. We know that there are far fewer women than men who are self-employed, and we know that individual enterprises based on men have a higher survival rate than the equivalent started by women. Then there is the concrete question: will the Council of State, together with the Left, secure a majority in order to improve social rights? Can the Council of State specifically confirm this for the group that I have asked questions about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e390	I would like to confirm that we will receive good input from the Left to create good policies for small and medium-sized enterprises. I'd like to cooperate with the Left on proposals related to this, but going into proposals I haven't seen, I'm going to be very careful with. My starting point is that good general industrial policy is also a good industrial policy for small and medium-sized enterprises. We are now working on a comprehensive policy for entrepreneurs, and one of the things we have to look at is why too few entrepreneurs are women. So this is something we work with and come back to, and we like to cooperate with the Left about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e397	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e401	My follow-up question goes to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen. Economic operators create their own jobs, where they personally have the financial risk of the operation, and they have neither entitlement to sickness benefits nor unemployment benefits. They are also not entitled to assistance from the Wage Guarantee Fund in the event of bankruptcy. Nevertheless, they pay more in taxes than usual employees with the same income. In particular, it applies to non-high income. The explanation is simple: Ordinary workers are entitled to the minimum deduction, not employed. The left has suggested, on several occasions, the introduction of a right to compensation for the deduction of the actual costs of the trader. Simplification measures as well as targeted tax measures take them with the lowest income. For a batch that is busy bringing down the total tax burden and giving tax relief to those with the lowest incomes, this should be in the middle of the flash. I therefore hope that the Minister of Finance can confirm that she shares that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e410	When the government presented the supplementary proposal for the current year's budget, we proposed tax reliefs of over 7 billion. kr. It benefits both self-employed and limited companies and the general business community, and that is good. It's a work the government will continue. I hear that the representative Breivik also points to a wide range of other measures, instruments and issues that affect the daily self-employed. There are areas where different government councils are looking at and working on, precisely with the intention of simplifying their everyday lives, so that they can concentrate their efforts on running the company well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e417	Odd Omland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e420	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Simplification is – as we have heard – an important contribution for small businesses and individuals. The government of Stoltenberg started a great deal of work with an ambitious goal of 10 billion. NOK in savings by 2015, and we were in a good path. Today's Business on February 20th, we read that the government has to simplify first to simplify. We are talking about the Council of the Rules of Procedure, and in this context one has to wait for the rules of the Minister of Modernisation. It also talks about establishment in 2015. My question is, When can you expect the government to start its simplification work? Will the government start the proposals that were clear from the previous government as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e427	I'm very pleased that the red-green government started working on business simplification towards the end of its eight-year period. It's very important, and that's one of the business issues in all the meetings I have. We have a more ambitious program to simplify, and we're working on it. After our accession, we have implemented 14 simplification measures, we have 18 measures in implementation and many more on the table. Then there was a suggestion that the Minister of Modernization is working to modernise the plan. It'll be good if we introduce a rule board – if it's in place – but there's no premise. And it's no problem that two departments work with simplification at the same time. It's actually just good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e434	Per Kåre Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e437	Founders and self-employed people are an important resource that contributes to innovation and jobs in Norway. The pressure on supply and presence in small enterprises is particularly high, and absences are often difficult. Then I also talk about absences that we in society experience as normal, like at birth, illness in the family, etc. The Christian People's Party has for several years proposed changes aimed at equalising the social security rights of entrepreneurs with the rights of workers. My question to the Council of State is: What concrete measures are being taken to improve the social rights of entrepreneurs and self-employed people?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e442	I ask for understanding that it is not my constitutional responsibility to answer questions about social security rights, but, as the Minister of Finance said, several departments are working to simplify precisely to increase value creation, perhaps especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. My responsibility is to ensure good policies for entrepreneurs. I have meetings with entrepreneurs, and I keep asking, how can we better facilitate more entrepreneurs? Getting enough capital, getting enough skills and creating a framework for us to become an even more innovative country is what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e449	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e452	Simplification is good, and we look forward to further work by the government in terms of simplification. During the winter that we have spent behind us, the government has implemented a number of measures that weaken the framework conditions for individual enterprises, entrepreneurs and small businesses. We have had a historically high increase in the diesel tax, which affects very many individual companies and small businesses. Nearly half a billion dollars have been removed from regional development funds, which is an important source of initial capital and birth aid for very many entrepreneurs and small businesses. The question is what we can expect from the government in the future in order to correct some of the problems they have caused to small businesses and sea-going business in winter through these decisions. Can we expect better arrangements and better framework conditions for this group of traders, e.g. in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e461	I will not stand here and explain the content of the revised national budget. I'm sure the questioner has a lot of understanding for that. I experience very good feedback on the budget that was adopted by the Stortinget in December. Our commitment to industrial research and innovation, our prioritisation of nationwide schemes in Innovation Norway, our commitment to transport and, not least, growth-promoting tax incentives are making – and making good. Overall, I get good feedback on the policy of the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e469	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e472	My question is to the Minister of Finance. When we're discussing the incredible bonuses to rich directors in state-owned companies right now, it's worth thinking about the following: A home help that earns less than $30,000 a year, gets 27 dollars a day in tax bills by the finance minister. It's less than I got in the week's pay when I was a nine-year-old. On the other hand, directors like Rune Bjerke and Helge Lund don't only get huge bonuses – they also get a "riching bonus" from Siv Jensen. They get a tax return of 107 kroner a day, 39 000 kroner a year, 390 times more than home help. Will the Council of State say that her policy is mostly a support to hard-working, low-paid women and people most, or a direct call for more pay-for-rich directors?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e481	I think that the representative Serigstad Valen should be a little more correct in his presentation of the tax reliefs this government has given. It is absolutely right that we have both given relief to ordinary people and have brought great relief to the wealth tax. It is primarily about securing jobs around the whole country. It is about contributing to the competitiveness of an increasingly tried and tested business, which is facing a more demanding competitive situation in the markets in which they compete. An overall Norwegian business life has long said that one of the most important issues that this government wants to deal with is the strange wealth tax. That's what the two government parties voted on, and that's what we're about to do. In addition, of course, this government is concerned with a wide range of other measures, which will take people with low and medium incomes, while at the same time it is important for them to have a job to go to. Therefore, it is important that the government now addresses weakened competitiveness and takes action to raise productivity growth in the Norwegian economy. That work is going on with full force and strength. Then I have recorded that there is a somewhat strangely politicized debate about the value and importance of discussing the case that has been in productivity growth in the Norwegian economy over the last eight years. Well, those who believe that this is not an important issue are also not particularly concerned with the future welfare level of Norway and the Norwegian economy. It's this government. That is why we address these questions, and we are going to continue to reduce the overall tax burden in Norway, because we believe that it is good to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e488	My presentation is quite correct, because it is derived from the government's own additional proposition, Table 1.3. There everyone can see what low-paid women get in tax from the government compared to rich directors, for whom Siv Jensen is responsible in government. I don't know about Jensen, but I think it can be seen as an insult that the Minister of Finance keeps walking around and bragging about giving 27 cents a day in tax cuts if you're a low-paid woman. It's a little bit like giving 2 kroner a tip and saying, "Buy something nice." I did not get an answer to my question, so I ask again: what is it that secures jobs, to quote the finance minister, by giving Helge Lund, Rune Bjerke and other directors 390 times more money in tax cuts than usual hard-working, low-paid women?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e493	The biggest difference between this government and the previous government is that now at least tax relief is given to everyone. It's a work the government is going to continue, because it thinks it's important. In the debate on taxes on wealth, it is primarily about the fact that much of Norway’s capital is being tied up, so that it is not channelled into companies in the start-up phase or that need new capital to expand and secure their business. That's why we're going to continue to work to reduce taxes on wealth, because we think it's distorting, it's strange, and we find it in very few countries with which Norwegian companies compete. There has also been an ever-increasing gap in corporate taxation in Norway, compared with many countries with which we compete. That's why we also took the first step towards harmonising it. The Scheel Committee makes its recommendations in October, and it will follow up appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e498	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e501	Large tax credits to the richest in Norway, bonus parties and greed among them at the top undermine what I think is the finest thing in Norwegian society, that is the trust and the cohesion that creates small differences. In 2008, the then depositor Siv Jensen went hard towards the bonus party in the banks and said that she would go in order that there would be no bonuses in the banks as long as the government was in charge of relief measures for them. Today it seems that Siv Jensen's response is not a response to bonuses, but tax relief for those who get them. Last week I asked Prime Minister Erna Solberg if she could mention a single measure this government will take against the bonus party in the banks. She then replied with nothing, in addition to the fact that the government would scrape the financial tax that was being planned. I wonder if it is Siv Jensen's answer as well, or if she can give us a single example of a measure this government will put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e508	An action that is already being consulted is the follow-up to the CRD IV Directive, which is just focusing on tightening up bonus schemes, not necessarily only for banks, but on a general basis, and I think it is important that we look at it. So, of course, it's an important and quite legitimate debate to deal with bonus schemes and pay growth in top managers both in government and in private companies. I think it's a management responsibility, a board of directors, to think through what signals you send in front of a payroll, where the same actors underline the need for moderation. I mean it's a very important social debate, and that it goes, and is taken continuously, I'm in favour. At the same time, as the Minister of Industry also said, we must also assess what action we may be taking where there is a breach of the state legislation underpinning it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e513	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e516	In 1881, the Stortinget introduced tax according to its ability, a principle that has since stood high. Tax by ability meant that a property tax and progressive income tax were paid. A property tax was paid, which was an extra tax on a job-free income, from a property that was three to four times a gross annual income. But my question is about income taxes and taxes according to the ability of the income tax. The centre party agrees that we are increasing the income tax base deductions. My question to the Council of State is now very precise, and I am asking for an answer, since many of the Councils of State of the Progressive Party do not answer the questions asked here: Will the Council of State weaken the tax advance on income in the future, i.e., so that those with high incomes, high tax capacity, get a lower tax rate – lower than for those with low incomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e521	Let me first refute the claim that the Progress Party Governments do not answer questions. That is what we do — this Council of State too, but on questions of what kind of tax changes will be proposed by this government in the context of next year’s government budget, the representative Lundtägen is well aware that they will be advertised when the government budget is presented in October. But it's probably not a big secret that this government is working to reduce the overall tax burden. We took the first steps in the supplementary proposal in the current year's budget. We will continue to do so, so that ordinary employees benefit, and so that it ensures increased competitiveness for an increasingly tried and tested business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e527	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e530	I have a question for the European Minister. The European Minister has given the impression that he is pursuing a much more active and ambitious European policy than the previous government. When he is confronted with why he has given up some Norwegian requirements relating to EU directives, he answers in the Questionnaire today that the Norwegian company is by far the most concerned about the companies he has visited is that EU directives are not implemented quickly enough. My question is: What Norwegian companies has the European Minister of Justice been in the country complaining that the red-greens have not implemented EU rules quickly enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e537	Yesterday, I visited Grenland, I visited Eastern Plastic and Diving Services, and there I also met the head of the Norwegian department of INEOS, a large petrochemical company. The main message was very clear: it is a level playing field that is the main issue of Norwegian business. I get the same message in meetings with business organisations. Last week I visited Norway's largest strawberry farmer, Geir Joa on the Sola, who said he wanted the same conditions as his European competitors. He wanted to be able to import strawberries from the EU in order to produce two crops during the strawberries season, so we can have Norwegian strawberries until 17 May. Norwegian legislation stands in the way of today. The desire for a level playing field in business is strong, and it is therefore important to bring down EEA acts. It has nothing to do with irritating the EU – it does so far, but it is not the most important thing. The most important thing is to have competitiveness in Norwegian business, to ensure jobs, to ensure well-being, we must ensure that we do not give Norwegian business a start-up disadvantage. That's the starting point for the job that we're doing in bringing down EEA legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e546	Then I have a question about what results, what implementation has the European Minister actually achieved in implementing these changes? What changes has he implemented that have improved the situation for Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e551	Since we took over in October, we have taken over the follow-up of unincorporated legal acts on the Norwegian side and got it down considerably. This does not mean that they are automatically incorporated into the EEA Agreement, because it also depends on Iceland. Later today, I am going to Iceland for a conversation with the Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs about how we can work together to ensure that the Icelanders also get a higher pace of implementation. They're interested in that. They have recently put forward an EEA and EU strategy, and we will work together to ensure more speed, for the benefit of our business. We are also working in this context with stronger cooperation with other Nordic countries to ensure that we can be early in decision-making processes, so that we can influence where we have special priorities and special desires.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e556	There will be follow-up questions – Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e559	Several industries are now affected by increased employers’ fees. I want to give the Council of State another opportunity to respond to what he has actually done to help the three industries that I talked about: transport, energy and finance. The council says the government has no retroactive effect. Yes – to put it that way – unfortunately, the government has a future effect. Then it is strange to hear that the Council of State repeatedly refers to the legacy of the former government. What room for action does the Council of State want to use in relation to what is now ahead? What are the concrete compensation measures that you want to achieve? Is it heads for heads, or is the general measure that weighs and taxes you are engaged in compensating for? I think it is important that the Council of States is clear on exactly what one priorities in the negotiations with ESA now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e566	The Minister of Finance has explained that the revised national budget will address these issues. I have to say that it is something special to produce general measures as a road as being of little interest to the transport industry. It is also the case that general tax relief raises business and provides opportunities for business. We are trailers of general instruments, and we are trailers of introducing special instruments where targeted measures are necessary and possible. That is precisely why, as I said earlier, although the general rules were established last year, we are now looking at the scope of the implementation and adaptation of the legislation to the Norwegian reality. There we turn all the stones, and we come back to the concrete measures when the job is done turning the stones.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e575	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e578	I understand that the Council of State is concerned with business, and that's good. Now I think the examples he mentions are things you can do on the Norwegian side without necessarily having anything to do with the relationship with the EU. The business community is not primarily complaining about access to the European market, but it is all the rigid rules, the unnecessary bureaucracy and rules that are lacking professional content that are imposed on the EU. That is precisely why we have also challenged the Council of State both on fishmeal, which may be a small matter, and the question of differentiated employer fees, and why it is not possible to maintain schemes that are obviously sensible, accurate and fair, because the EU has a rigid bureaucracy. Then again, I will be allowed to challenge the Council of State: what are the ambitions? And is it an option, in the case of a differentiated employer fee, to be able to notify aid to the various sectors as other State aid rules, which are mentioned as an option?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e585	In order to take this example, the State aid rules provide greater room for manoeuvre than the rules on differentiated employer charges per se. It's among the things we want to assess. Now we're going through and we're looking at what game we're playing on adaptations within the guidelines for regional aid, and we're looking at other possible measures. But it's not now, it's in the revised national budget we're going to get back to this. When the representative mentions this matter with fishmeal in animal feed, I should say that I fully agree that, although the EU's purpose is certainly good, regulation is a bad regulation, but it is therefore an adopted regulation within an EEA framework in which we are involved, and within an internal market where it is important for Norway to be involved. The only way we would have had to fight further in that case was to take it to the EFTA Court, but it is a matter that we know with great certainty that we would lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e593	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e596	When it comes to mentioning the enterprises he has visited, he mentions the largest in perhaps some of the most central strokes of the country. It might be interesting to know if the Council of State has been in North Norway, whether he has been up in the Østerdalen or in the mountain region, to ask small businesses there about some of the problems. After all, there is the discussion about the differentiated employer’s fee and the fact that the government has accepted that the whole transport sector has been removed, which is the problem, because that is where the major disadvantages are. When the Council of State says that you have to work for it to be the same as the starting point, he has to ensure that the transport of goods and the mail is not more expensive, the flow is becoming more expensive and the bus is becoming more expensive for everyone who is established in District Norway. Will the State Council work for the transport system to come back in?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e601	The councils are making their entire contribution to the housing school, which creates joy in the hall. I haven't only been to North Norway, I'm born in North Norway; I'm a resident. We are now fighting with beaks and claws to find solutions that will be good for North Norway as part of the country. This I'm burning for, you should know. So this legislation was nailed last year for the sector exemptions, and it's up to us to see what we can do about adapting and implementing it. We can't do anything about the sector exemption being proposed by the Commission last year. Norway had a consultation process, and we didn't get there. In June the decision came. We just have to deal with that. Now we get to do the best of it, and the finance minister works day and night to make sure of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e612	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e615	My question goes to the Minister of Finance and is about the party's eye-catching eagerness to pay increased State subsidies. The government has just announced a sharp increase in subsidies for new forest roads. New forest highways hit, as is known by surgical precision, those forest areas that have the highest environmental value because they have been left at peace the longest. These are also the areas that contribute most to the care of the state, or government, obligation to preserve or stop the loss of biodiversity in Norwegian forests by 2020. The OECD has therefore pointed out to Norway that these forest road subsidies are directly environmentally harmful subsidising. The questions are then – firstly, does the Council of State agree that this instrument is a directly environmentally harmful subsidy instrument? And secondly, does the Council of State think that it is good progress party policy to use more state resources than any other party in activities that are unprofitable, that would otherwise not have been carried out, and that harm Norwegian nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e624	The question of forest roads may have to be addressed to the responsible State Council rather than to the Minister of Finance. On a general basis, I would say that this government is not primarily working to increase state subsidies to Norwegian business. Rather, we are working on the contrary to facilitate the most competitive framework conditions, so that Norwegian businesses compete with neighbouring countries. That's why we work in several areas to contribute to it. We work to bring about growth-enhancing tax relief. The Minister of Industry goes through the whole instrument to make it more accurate, so that business can benefit from it throughout the country. We simply work in areas by region to renew, simplify and improve the instrumentation, so that Norwegian businesses can benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e633	It is precisely because it has been made so very clear from both the Minister of Finance and the government that simplification and cuts in government expenditure are the main instrument, that I have to ask the Minister of Finance if she, as the principal in charge of the architecture of Norwegian finance policy, finds it a good tool to actually signal a strong increase – a much stronger increase than any other party has ever signaled – in subsidising environmental damage, which would not have taken place without the state subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e638	I repeat my previous answer: the question of forest roads should be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture. With regard to the claim that the main objective of this government is to cut government expenditure, there is a truth to modification. What this government is working for is cutting unnecessary government expenditure that is channelled into the Norwegian economy in the wrong way. That's why we're going through areas by area, so that we free resources to areas where it can give more of itself. It is not least about strengthening Norwegian competitiveness. It's about slowing down the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. It is about implementing measures to enhance the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. All of this is important for a vulnerable Norwegian business that faces significant challenges in the markets in which it competes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e647	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e659	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Finance, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 12, from the representative Sonja Mandt to the Minister of Knowledge, is taken up by the representative Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e674	‘At the NSM Security Conference on 19 March, the State Secretary at SMK Laila Bokhari said that SMK is now building a security element and that this is taking shape. [[H]] It is also quoted at this point in the NTB, as follows: ‘We are now building up a national security and preparedness element’. The Prime Minister himself has repeatedly stressed the importance of such an element. I have received a wanted grant of 1.5 million. kr, cf. Prop. 29 S for 2013 – 2014, and what is the concrete status of the preparedness element at SMK no?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e681	For the Right-wing Party Government, strengthening the security of Norwegian citizens is a priority task. The Ministry of Justice and Security has a general coordination role for social security and preparedness. Each department is responsible for social security and preparedness in its sector. As head of the College of Government, it is important that I have a good understanding and understanding of the work on social security and preparedness. In this way, I can support the Councils of State in the important work within their own area of competence, and I can support the Minister of Justice and Security's work on lifting preparedness overall. This is why the Prime Minister's office has been strengthened in order to provide me with a better understanding of the challenges and opportunities in Norwegian preparedness. This strengthening of advice to me does not alter or reduce the responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. All good crisis management is based on the basic principles of preparedness on proximity, equality, responsibilities and interoperability. These principles have also joined the parties to the Storing. These principles include that operational responsibility for coordinating events is to be done by those closest to the crisis. Of course, neither the Ministry of Justice nor the SMK shall have operational responsibility for crisis management. Fires shall be handled by the fire department, police incidents by the police, etc. If there is a crisis of such a nature that it is natural for the government to be involved, the Ministry of Justice will automatically be the Ministry of State, unless otherwise decided. In some crises, it would also be natural for the Government Security Committee to be convened. At other times, it may be appropriate to convene the relevant state councils or the entire government. The staff at the SMK will, in such a situation, as usual, carry out their task of assisting me as Prime Minister and Head of Government. The security and preparedness element at SMK includes several points: increased awareness of emergency situations with me and the government college; a special State Secretary with primary responsibility; and increased knowledge at SMK through short-term exposures of key professionals on standby. The Secretary of State shall assist me as head of the College of Government, including ensuring that the Councils of State lift up important emergency cases in their departments for consideration in the Government Security Committee and in the Government. This gives me and the rest of the College of Government the best starting point for good political discussion and good dialogue on security and preparedness issues. In order to further strengthen SMK’s assistance to me as head of the government college, a system of short-term exposures has been put in place by key experts from departments with comprehensive preparedness responsibilities. In addition, it will be appropriate to provide the Agency with increased insight into operational challenges in different response areas by involving staff in underlying agencies for shorter periods of time. The question is asked about the 1.5 million. kr that was granted in the new era of the 2013 budget. They are used for office equipment, ICT and communication tools, as well as for the organisation of extended preparedness at the Prime Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e702	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his disbursement, not least when it concerns the principle of security and preparedness, which the previous government also established and agreed to. But my question is specifically related to what is the status of the emergency and security element right now, that is, how far one has come to establish it. It was said by the State Secretary for Emergency Response at the SMK that this was now in the process of taking shape. What I'm after then is: is the security and preparedness element available as of today, or is it something to be established in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e709	The security and preparedness element is the sum of the measures we are taking in this area, which means that we have specified the task of the Secretary of State more clearly in relation to preparedness on a broad front and that we have now eaten the competence of the Prime Minister's office. Then we have chosen to start with a system where we have interns with high professional competence from other departments, but also gradually with professional competence in operating conditions, to help us to be top up-to-date on what will actually be the reaction pattern, and also to see the gaps, so that I can do the job I'm going to lead the government's work. In today's modern world of communication, all questions come quickly to the Prime Minister. Then it is important that the Prime Minister ensure that the entire College of Government has a large and wide focus on preparedness. That is why my role as a support function for the work of the Ministry of Justice and Defence is important, and in fact there is a need for a strengthening at the Prime Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e718	I thank you for your answer. I understand that what the Prime Minister has done well is what makes up the security and preparedness element. I understand that it is about the Prime Minister's office having increased attention and knowledge in the field, and that one should – as the Prime Minister says – be top up-to-date. Then I wonder if the Prime Minister's office and the element are aware that the Ministry of Justice has cancelled a joint written threat assessment from the Security Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e723	The question of common threat/safety assessment is not as the representative says. A common safety assessment has been carried out between the departments, but it has been carried out in written form by the PST, and a anchorage has also been established in the RSU, which has been informed about this. What we have been concerned about is that the common security understanding and the intention is not that there should be four different reports, but that there are still three reports, where the PST report also contains the elements that are important for the CSM and that there is a dialogue between the three levels. We therefore believe that we have met this year. But then we have said that the process of risk analysis of the Intelligence Service before the joint assessment that came through the PST report may have been unfortunate. That is why we have said that in the next round we must ensure that the joint assessment comes first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e743	This question falls away. Since the Council of State to answer question 3 is not yet present, we will proceed to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e750	‘The Minister of Climate and Environment has previously announced that she would work with the Minister of Agriculture in order to find an acceptable solution in the Black-Hales Pove case. It is now moving towards spring on the Jären. Has the Council come up with a solution in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e757	Black-tailed porpoise was adopted as a priority species in 2011. The background was that the species is highly endangered in Norway and priority under the Nature Diversity Act was considered to be the most effective and appropriate instrument to protect the species. Prioritisation included, inter alia: that a regulation was adopted prohibiting all forms of extraction and destruction of black-tail paws. The regulation also contained a ban on fenced before 15 July in the breeding area of the species, since the main threat to the species is machine-made in the nesting areas before the young are able to fly. It follows from the regulation that, where the prohibition on turning-off causes significant difficulties in the existing use and substantial losses for the land owner, the landowner may require a derogation or protection of the area. For this reason, the county of Rogaland granted exemption from the lockdown to all landowners who so requested in 2012 and 2013. A voluntary scheme is also in place in which the county grants grants to landowners who adapt their operations to the Blacktail Pole, primarily by delaying the switch. I have come to understand that several of the landowners involved in the Jären are dissatisfied with today's system, and I have therefore, as the representative says, warned that I will try to find an acceptable solution for the black-tailed paw together with the Minister of Agriculture and Food. I am looking at what can be done in the matter. The matter is not simple. There are challenges to ensuring adequate protection of the species, while at the same time finding a solution that the owners of the land concerned are satisfied with. I have a great deal of understanding that landowners who are involved in grass production seem to have a problem with the ban on early turn-offs, as the ban makes feed quality considerably worse. However, I suggest that the landowners who have been engaged in intensive grass production in these areas continue to have access to implement early turnout if they so wish. I would like to create the best possible predictability for the landowners. I am working to clarify the matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e768	I thank you for your answer. The story is that in 2011, protection, bonding – no birds came on their wings. Derogation was granted in 2012 and 2013. That was good – birds came on their wings. I also understand that the county is offensive in the matter, and that you seem to have resolved the matter for 2014. But in the A magazine of the evening post 21 February, the Council of State played a role in getting her into the oral questioning process for the first time. It was suggested to use the words ‘management of the natural diversity law can sometimes tip over into the parody’. The Council of State was, however, not the Council of Ministers to use such an expression in the Stortinget. But I ask again: does one think that this species is suitable in the long term to be a priority species under the Nature Diversity Act, when one sees how the administration has evolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e777	Policies are balancing different interests. The previous government, which was part of the Centre Party, and which worked on this, was enough to put this matter at the forefront – hence the answer in the role-play to which the representative refers. I understand that it is not a parliamentary word that should be used here. That's why I'm very busy finding a solution that looks after the black-tailed paw, while I want to find a predictable solution for those who produce grass on the paw. It's at this balance point that we're now trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e782	Biological diversity is important, and ensuring biodiversity is an important political task. Then it's also a political task to see when you've done things in a good sense, and they didn't have to work. The situation here is that one has landowners who are occupied with this bird. There is a reason that this bird is in this area, namely that intensive grass production is being carried out. Putting the farmers about their production, the bird will also lose its natural shelter. Can I ask, is it relevant for the Council of State to put in place a scheme where landowners receive a reward in the form of money for each bird that comes on its wings, so that they can use their insight and knowledge both for grass production and for the bird to ensure that as many birds as possible come on the wings of any hedgehog?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e791	We know that the stock situation for black-tail paws has not improved. The species is still heavily endangered and needs protection and specific measures. We want to find a solution that both preserves the black-tailed paw and is a good solution for those who produce grass on the Jären. So if it's possible to think in that direction, it's the kind of action we want to take. We are here concerned not to put the matter on the head, but to find a solution that both parties can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e800	The question is: ‘Norway purchased an average of 8.4 million allowances in the 2008-2012 period. tonnes per year. The Directorate-General for the Environment and the Department has pointed out that the quota system is not working properly, and the Council repeats this in a reply on 14 March to the undersigned, but does not correspond to the volume of emissions from Norwegian quota purchases abroad that have contributed to cutting. Is it so to understand that the Council of State does not have any information on how much greenhouse gas, one of the most central instruments in Norwegian climate policy, has contributed to cutting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e809	As the representative Hansson refers to, I answered this question on 14 March. In this answer, I pointed out that the European ETS works well in the sense that it is certain that the emissions will stay within the set quota. An allowance in the system represents 1 tonne of greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions in EU ETS sectors are lower than assumed at the time of setting the quantity of allowances. That's good. The disadvantage of this development is that it has built up a surplus of allowances, which has led to persistently low prices. This gives weak incentives to change and technology development. That's not good. The EU has worked for a long time on measures that permanently or temporarily reduce the total quantity of allowances. This has contributed to an increase in EU quota prices. Norway has supported such measures. Norway follows the emission accounting legislation and compliance with obligations developed under the UN Regulation on the basis of the Kyoto Protocol. Allowances purchased by the country and surrendered by allowances activities during the 2008-2012 period are included in these accounts. Such allowances must be approved by the UN and emission reductions are well documented and verified by both the UN and independent third parties. Extensive documentation of each project and third-party assessments is freely available on the website of the United Nations Climate Change Secretariat. For the first Kyoto period, the country has been delivered through the allowance purchase programme about 22 million allowances that are now held in the country’s holding account in the allowance registry. These allowances represent a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 22 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent from projects in other countries. I can assure the representative Hansson that the UN has extensive control of the basis for the issue of these quotas. The Norwegian holdings covered by the EU ETS also contribute to Norway’s compliance with the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e832	In the case of UN climate quotas, there is a separate discussion where most will agree that their climate impact is very low. In this case, we are talking about allowances from the EU allowance market, and we are talking about the fact that climate action is about cutting CO2, tonnes of CO2 – not percentages and allowances. According to the Norwegian climate agreement, the reduction of 12 million tonnes of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions is to be covered by the purchase of allowances. We know that the quota market – as the Council itself points out – works very badly because of low prices. The question is: will the Council of State contribute to the reduction of the use of a non-functioning allowance market as an effective means of cutting emissions in Norwegian climate policy and to the reduction of emissions here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e845	What we're discussing is the follow-up to the decision-making process. There is broad agreement that parts of the emission obligation under the Kyoto Protocol should be fulfilled through the purchase of allowances. The size has also decided that we should reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Now we have also received a good report from the Environment Directorate, which shows the gap we have in Norway in relation to what the Stortinget has decided to reduce. We know that we have a gap of 8 million tons in Norway. The answer is that we should reduce in Norway while following up the quota system in line with what the Storing has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e852	The problem, then, is that even the very low part of the agreed Norwegian cut obligation that will happen in Norway, we are far behind. There is great expectation of what the government of Sundtoft can contribute, which the red-green government was unable to contribute. We're talking here about the part of Norwegian emission cuts that's going to happen through a quota market that's not working, and where the Council of State repeatedly confirms that you can't prove how much cut this quota purchase leads to. What the climate agreement says is going to lead to is an annual cut of 12 million tonnes. What will the Council of State do to show that the measures taken by Norway abroad will lead to actual cuts of 12 million tonnes per year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e857	Here, it's important to help make the allowance system work. Then it's a challenge that we have one too low quota price. The fact that we also played into the EU that we have to increase ambitions by 2030 – only what was recorded there – has led to a slightly higher quota price now. We have to raise the quota price. We also support the EU's efforts to postpone the timing of auctioning climate allowances, to reduce allowances now and to make the best use of the allowance system we have. But we have to get the quota system of such a character that we get a higher price of CO2. Only then will we have a quota system that will lead to the technological development that we also need. At the same time, we need to work constantly to reduce emissions nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e867	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e874	‘District business receives a bill of billions if a differentiated employer’s fee is eliminated for several industries. The same business lost access to approx. 500 million. kr through cuts in regional instruments in the 2014 budget. Governments have stated through the media that increased costs of the employer’s fee will be compensated for kroner. Will the government ensure that the compensation is provided to the benefit of the enterprises concerned and will the measures be included in the revised national budget for 2014?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e881	Let me first point out that the new guidelines on regional aid were adopted by the European Commission on 19 June 2013, i.e. under the previous government. The new government has therefore had no opportunity to influence that decision. The draft guidelines were also out of wide public consultation from l4. from January to 11 March 2013. In the draft, all sectors currently excluded from the legislation, with the exception of the energy sector, were proposed. Neither the NHO nor the four northernmost states that issued a hearing opinion commented on this. Since we came into government in October, we have worked to make the derogations for the sectors as small as possible. We have argued for this in the dialogue with both the European Commission and ESA until the end of February, but unfortunately it has not been implemented. If the government had not taken the signals from ESA seriously, we would put the entire system of differentiated employer charges at risk. The consequence would then have been very likely that Norway had not differentiated the employer’s contribution from July 1st this year. As Prime Minister Erna Solberg stated in the British oral Question Time on 19 March, the government is now working to identify targeted measures to mitigate the impact of the new EU legislation. We consider different measures with a view to restoring the increase in the paid employers’ fees to the regions concerned. The Government intends to present measures when the changes in the differentiated employer fee are presented to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget for 2014. In our assessments, it is natural to take into account the experience of today’s compensatory measures, while at the same time the government will look at the sectors that are now receiving increased taxes as a result of regulatory changes in the EU. Until ESA has approved the differentiated employer fee, there is still uncertainty about how the scheme can be designed after 1 July. On the other hand, from July onwards it will be possible to provide regional aid for shipbuilding, and we therefore propose that this sector be included in the scheme. The government continues to prioritise nearly $12 billion. kr to regional development funds in 2014 distributed through counties. Growth across the country requires good framework conditions for innovation and for local businesses. Therefore, the government will implement a policy in which we invest more in knowledge, research, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief. Together with a strong uplift for county roads and national highways, strengthening the FUNN and clustering, this gives good conditions for generating growth across the country. We are doing this well and have already taken important steps in the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e898	The question was what the Council of State meant by its statement that the employer’s fee should be paid in kroner. Will this mean that it will have to be compensated regionally, or will it mean that it will have to be compensated for to the individual farm? Can we expect that those who are hard hit by this will be compensated, so that the individual enterprise can continue to maintain its operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e903	Let me first repeat that the legislation we deal with was adopted under the previous government. That means that it was the previous government that had had the opportunity to influence this legislation. Let me also remind you that what the representative asked for was whether the government would come up with compensatory measures in relation to the revised national budget. I answered that question. I pointed out that the Prime Minister has stated in oral question time that the government will come back in the context of the revised national budget. We are committed to ensuring good framework conditions for businesses, and we are doing so by focusing on growth-enhancing tax reductions, increasing investment in infrastructure and increasing investment in research and development. We will now go through the legislation to see how we can secure businesses and regions that come out unluckily due to the decision taken last year, while the Central Party had been guarding the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e912	My question is still not about the division of blame between the two governments. My question was simply: Will the government ensure that the compensation is granted in such a way that it benefits the companies concerned? What will the government do to target the companies that will be affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e917	I have also answered that question. We are now going through and seeing what opportunities we have within the State aid regulation that the European Union has adopted. It must be up to any government, and we are also obliged to the companies concerned, not to jeopardize their competitive situation by granting aid which we do not have under the rules. But I referred in my reply to the fact that under the previous regime there was de minimis support in the situation where shipbuilding was not part of the differentiated employer's fee. We will assess whether we can continue with the new legislation that is now in place. We will also consider other measures, because we are concerned about growth and development throughout Norway. We must then have good framework conditions for businesses, industries and regions so that we can secure them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e926	So let's go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e933	«We set the clock twice a year to either normal or summer time. The policy is regulated in an EU Directive. Research shows that there are health consequences for some when sleep rhythm is disrupted. Statistically, more heart attacks occur than usual in the days after one has set the clock in the spring, and more car crashes occur. In addition, it is to the detriment of those who have to take medication at fixed times for chronic and serious diseases. Will the Council of State work to wind up the scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e940	Summertime was first introduced in Norway in 1916. Now Norway has had summer time every year since 1980. Most European countries now switch to summer time at the same time. In 1980, all EU countries had summer time, but at different start and end times. In order to clear up the confusion that this could create, the EU introduced its first summer time regulation in 1981. EU Directive 2000/84 sets out the start and end times of summer time. Norway follows the same practice as the rest of Europe on these issues. The use of summer time is regulated by Regulation of 14 December 2007 No. 1420 in summer time. The regulation on summer time implements the EU directive on summer time. This Directive does not open to national adaptations. However, Iceland has the same time in summer as in winter, because the current EU/EEA provision does not apply to Iceland. The reason that Iceland has the same time in summer as in winter is primarily historical, but is also justified in Iceland’s geographical location. Iceland has had the current system long before the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. As far as I know, it has never been considered relevant for Iceland to change this. Norway is part of an international society characterised by extensive cross-border trade and a high level of travel activity between countries. We who live in Europe are becoming ever more closely woven together. This trend is likely to continue in the years to come. That is why it is important, both for business and for citizens, that we have the same system as the countries we have a lot to do with. Then we avoid confusion with different times. I have been informed by the National Institute for Public Health that from a public health perspective, the consequences of the adjustment of the clock after season are small in disease, and for the vast majority of patients taking their medications at fixed times, one hour to or from will have no significance. In the department there have been few enquiries over the years that we have made about 2 o'clock a year. I take that as a sign that the arrangement we have works well for most of us. Therefore, I see no strong reason to change this arrangement today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e959	Thanks for the answer. What I'm busy about is reducing bureaucracy – that's to the extent that both I myself and not least the government are busy with. The message of simplification and renewal was strong in the election campaign, and I hope he will be strong in the future as well. Unnecessary tasks must, to the extent possible, be removed – as far as we are all concerned – but setting the clock is something that everyone has to do twice a year, both businesses and individuals. Together, these are quite a number of unnecessary tasks, and it will be a simple act for Norway – in cooperation with the EU, if one can find an agreement on this – to end this, i.e. simplification and renewal in practice. Does the Council of State think that having the same time all year could be a good simplification step?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e968	No, I can't see that turning the clock on twice a year provides something special bureaucracy. On the contrary, I do not actually receive any enquiries from business about this. I think the positive consequences, by getting more light and more sun, are very much greater than the negative consequences of having to turn on the clock twice a year. I think we're doing fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e975	The council actually came up with the main point of what I was going to ask about, this because we get more light summer time. Summertime we still have a lot of light in Norway, but if there's one thing we don't have in winter, it's light. If one had had summer time throughout the year, it would have given one an hour more in the afternoon when one could have been out for school and work, that it would be easier for people to get out than it is today. This clearly reveals health benefits. What I then wonder about is if the council believes it is irrelevant that one could get an hour more light winter time. For my part, it's open-minded. I think it is quite special that the Council of State stands and uses the argument that there will be more light summer time, as an argument for not having the same time throughout the year – precisely because one could then get light winter time as well. Does the Council of State think this is irrelevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e982	I will not call any questions or debates in Stortinget irrelevant. All debates in the United Kingdom are relevant, as is this. But I also believe that the benefits of this system, which we do with the countries to which we relate most, are greater than the disadvantages. We don't experience any major problems with this, we don't experience any bureaucracy, and we don't experience any public health problems related to this – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e991	‘There are demanding processes in many health establishments for hospital mergers. In Buskerud, this could lead to the closure of Kongsberg hospitals. Would the Council of State be able to recommend and approve this without having been treated by the Stortinget as part of a national health and hospital plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e998	The government is now working on a national health and hospital plan that will provide the Storting with a description of the status and challenges of specialist health services. The plan will enable the Storting to take a stronger part in the decisions on how to develop the specialist healthcare service in order to meet the future needs of patients. The plan will provide guidance and principles for the development of the specialist healthcare service, so that the Storting can provide a politically anchored development of healthcare. The Government will present the National Health and Sickness Plan to the Stortinget in autumn 2015. At the same time, there are several processes involved in developing and improving healthcare around the country, including plans for new, larger hospital investments. I am concerned that these processes and plans are not stopped until a national health and hospital plan has been submitted. Business development, hospital building planning and upgrading of existing hospitals are extensive and time-consuming processes. A stop to further development and planning until the autumn of 2015 would prevent completely necessary changes and upgrade needs in Norwegian hospitals, which would be completely irresponsible both for the population and for employees to create good health services. It is the responsibility of hospitals and health regions to develop healthcare locally in their area. With regard to the Western Viking process, it is assumed that Kongsberg hospitals will pass. However, the scope and dimensioning of the specialist health services to be developed at Kongsberg hospitals shall be further investigated in the planning process. Health services are constantly changing, both as a result of changes in technology, patient expectations and demographic developments. Such changes must be captured both by hospitals operating in permanent premises and where new buildings are planned. The Ministry will ensure that change and development are in line with given leadership, and I follow the ongoing processes closely. I will also, of course, intervene if any of these processes go against government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1015	I would like to thank you for your answer. I want to make it clear first that my question was not about stopping the processes that are happening out there. My question as to whether the Council of State will ensure that the Grand Duchy will decide whether there will be significant changes in the run-up to it. In particular, the question concerned Kongsberg Hospital, where the distribution work suggested – as I assess the content – that the hospital should be converted to a local medical centre, or whether it should be continued with appropriate emergency functions, as today. According to company law, this is classified as a ‘substantial’ change, i.e. changes in acute function and food supply. I thought the council was concerned about strengthening the Storting's power and influence, so I ask again: will he ensure that such decisions come to the Storing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1020	The government’s platform says that closures of emergency and food services that are not justified by patient safety and quality will not be accepted until a national health and hospital plan has been addressed, and these are questions that a person must consider when there is a current issue. As I see Hospital-Norway now, I do not see that there are any concrete decisions to stop any emergency or food supply that are now in need of intervention. One is now in a planning process where one has different options that are further explored, and it is precisely the type of processes that provide the basis for, for example: assessing whether proposals for this type of major and important change are justified by patient safety and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1027	Thanks for the answer. I have a simple question about the changes that are taking place and the plans that are going on in the West Viken, and especially against Kongsberg Hospital: Are they finally taking decisions in the Stortinget through a national health and hospital plan – whether Kongsberg Hospital is going to continue without emergency facilities, or whether Kongsberg Hospital is going to continue as a fully-fledged local hospital? Will the Storting have this adopted in connection with a national health and hospital plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1032	In my first answer, I explained what a national health and hospital plan should be. This should not be such that the Stortinget should be involved in any change that happens in Hospital-Norway, and I think that also the representative Toppe looks would be completely impossible. Here is a government that has a separate responsibility for, among other things. patient safety and quality. The government's wish with a national health and hospital plan is to involve the Storting in drawing up some principles and frameworks for development, and then it will be the responsibility of the state council – which owns – to ensure that the developments that take place in healthcare are within the framework of which the Storing has drawn up. In contrast to the previous government, this government has the policy of not making any significant changes in emergency and food services that are not based on patient safety and quality until the notification has been processed. I'm going to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1043	‘The West Viken HF Board of Directors adopted on 16 December 2013 the following: ‘In line with the Idea Phase Report, the Board of Directors shall base its further planning on the construction of a new hospital as soon as practicable to address current emergency functions in the Drammen and Kongsberg hospitals.’ The Idea Phase Report recommends that three alternative solutions be assessed as equivalent. Can the board only recommend a solution without the alternative ideas from the idea phase being explored in detail in the concept phase, including the zero option?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1050	The planning of a new hospital in Buskerud has taken a very long time – yes, many say too long. The board of directors of Vestre Viken decided at the board meeting on 16 December 2013 to send the Idea Phase Report with a board decision at the hearing. The administration has subsequently developed additional studies on localisation, transport, social analysis and economic analysis. The Board of Directors of the Vestre Viken has submitted for the first reading of the hearing opinions on 31 March, with a view to deciding on the Idea phase on 28 April. In this meeting, the Vestre Viken has also provided the basis for a decision on the location and site options. The representative Lundtigen asks whether the board can recommend only one solution, without the alternative proposals from the idea phase – including the zero option – being examined in detail in the concept phase. To this end, I would like to stress that when the State's early-stage counsellor in hospital projects assumes that at least two alternatives, as well as the zero option, are to be explored in the concept phase, then there are not alternative plots to which reference is made, but conceptual solutions. The early-stage supervisor for hospital projects applies to all types of investment decisions, including where land and location are determined in advance. Therefore, in the conceptual phase investigation, the Vestre Viken, irrespective of the locational choice, will investigate the recommended alternatives from the Idea phase. This also includes the zero option and further development at Kongsberg Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1061	I would like to thank you for an informative and good answer. What has now happened in the various stages is that the administration's recommendation to the forthcoming board meeting in West Viken on 31 March is that one continues the functions at Kongsberg Hospital as today. And then the nucleus: what should be the future Kongsberg hospital? The Council of State said that he would intervene in the process if there were a conflict with government policy. As far as I have understood, changes in emergency functions and food supply are to be treated as part of a national hospital plan. My question then is: can the emergency services in medicine, surgery and food be removed from Kongsberg Hospital without this being dealt with in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1068	The National Health and Hospital Plan does not suggest that the Stortinget will deal with and decide on specific food and emergency services at individual hospitals in Norway. One of these points is that the Stortinget, through its national health and hospital plan, is discussing and providing guidance on how this offer should look. A very concrete and good example of this is Stortingen’s treatment of the birthmark. Through that big message, Stortinget gave guidance on how food supplies in Norway were to develop, without anyone going in and taking over the responsibilities of the directors and managers at the hospitals. They have a separate responsibility for the quality and supply of their activities, but this shall take place within the framework drawn up. This means that, through national health and hospital plans, Stortinget has a completely different influence on the development of specialist healthcare in Norway over the years ahead than has been the case in the years in which it has been responsible for the specialist healthcare service. But if this service is to be able to evolve, we also need to ensure that we are constantly getting good decision-making. The central party’s response to this, namely to stop all processes until you get a decision in Stortinget on this – perhaps for up to two years – would put the Norwegian specialist health service back strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1075	I want to make it clear that the Center Party has never – I never underline – said that one should stop all processes. The Council of State knows that, and I hope it won't be passed on, because that's not our opinion. What we are discussing here are issues that are about to be addressed in the context of national health and hospital plans and that are about to change significantly. And ‘substantial’ changes are, in our opinion, both emergency services and food supplies, because this is perceived as absolutely essential points in the business of any hospital. What this long investigation from the Council of State has to get into is, based on my question, what is the content of a hospital? The medical association has a clear definition. State councils have not yet tried to define the content of a hospital. So my question is, The Medical Association defines a hospital as an acute medical offer 24 hours a day, with anaesthesia, with laboratories and with x-rays. Does the Council agree with such a definition of a hospital, and in this case Kongsberg Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1087	I have a lot of respect for the Medical Association, but I think there are other professional environments that also have interesting and important ideas and views on what should be the definition of different types of hospitals. Therefore, I would not recommend assigning that kind of question to one trade union. I would recommend leaving that kind of question to Stortinget after a careful discussion. I will also invite the Stortinget through a national health and hospital plan. I would also recommend Lundtigen to read my excellent article on this topic that elaborates on it, and that was printed recently in Today's Business, because we need a discussion on what should be the requirements of the different types of hospitals that we have in Norway. It's been a long time since the Center Party and the Right have agreed. Now we've started that work, but I hope that Lundtigen also respects that it's not a job that we can present now, but that actually takes some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1098	‘The health sector has a high level of sensitive personal data. Therefore, good data protection in the health sector is essential, in particular with regard to health records. Can the Council of State assure the Government that a legislative proposal will not weaken the requirement for information security and privacy in proposals for new health records, both by legislating requirements for landfill treatment for new national health records and by legislating what pseudonymous health information entails?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1105	In a short time, I want to make a proposal to the Stortinget about new patient records and health records. I can assure the representative, Mr Kjeseth, that privacy and information security will be an important part of this proposal. It is essential for good health care that correct and up-to-date health information is available to the right person in a timely manner. At the same time, it is important that the information does not flow to unauthorised persons. The proper protection of individuals' privacy is also important for everyone to have confidence in the health sector, and trust is central to our obtaining even better services. It's just those who need it, who'll see and use the information. All processing of health data shall comply with strict confidentiality and data protection requirements. Modern infrastructure and information security allow better protection of information. This requires risk assessments, e-IDs, activity logging, access management and other security solutions. It is essential that this is well-managed in the sector. The laws that I want to present to the Storting will set a framework and make demands for this. The representative Kjeseth's question goes into two essential details, but which are nevertheless the details of this bill, and I have to ask for respect for the fact that I cannot answer it in concrete terms until I present the proposition for treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1118	I thank you for your answer. It was actually that way that we can expect a proposition in Stortinget. The bill provides for the easier establishment of health records by regulation and concession with personal identification without consent or reservation. Speaking of reservation rights: why should the Council of State consider it more important for doctors to have the opportunity to reserve themselves against referring to abortion than for patients to be given the opportunity to consent to the registration of sensitive personal data and to reserve themselves against the use of patient information for different purposes that the State might find too good?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1127	There are probably two different questions, but if I'm going to deal with what was a topic now, namely the issue of health records and medical records, there are two types of participation there. Both of them were used in the question from Kjeseth. There is both the possibility of reservation and the possibility of consent. There are two very different levels of those requirements. It is also true that in the draft consultation which was sent from the previous government, some changes were proposed in respect of decisions relating to the establishment of the different types of registers. These are questions that have been put to the hearing, and there have been different hearings. I aim to present what is the current government's policy in this area, in a proposition to the Stortinget and look forward to good cooperation, among other things. with the Left, to draw the final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1136	Thanks for the answer. An additional question related to the role of the Storting, because it becomes interesting: Snowden's revelations of how much information is collected about us, and how they are used and may not be used, were a bit like a democratic aha experience, and in the bill that was out on the hearing, the Stortinge is deprived of the authority to determine which new records are to be created. The question really is whether the Council of State is comfortable with – based on a democratic mindset – that the Grand Council should not have the power to participate and adopt which new records are to be created about us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1147	This is one of the questions that we're going to get back to. There is a balance between the types of registers that are so extensive and important that it is natural for the Storting to discuss them and the types of registers that are more limited. It is also important for a sheep to establish them quickly and in a flexible way, including: for patient safety and quality reasons. That kind of balances are made in the proposition, and there we come up with recommendations for the Storting. It is important for me to stress that when registers are created in the regulation of a government, it is not an undemocratic act – on the contrary. Any government — not least a minority government — will depend on having support in the Storting for what one does, and the Storing can, of course, intervene at any time. What is decided by a government is democratically anchored in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1159	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘A working group working on new weapons instructions delivered a call on 13 September 2013 proposing how to ensure good and rapid access to weapons by the police when needed. However, in a transmission from the Police Directorate on 19 February 2014 by a letter from the Ministry of Justice of 18 February 2014, the police districts were asked to describe the ‘administrative and police implications of a general weapon’. Does this mean that instead of implementing the actions of the Working Group, the Council of State will implement general armaments, and how will this be presented to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1168	I would like to thank Mr Bøhler for his question. The Government Declaration is a recipe-list of policy implementation during this major period, and, as the Government Declaration states, the government wants to open up general arms in the police districts where the police themselves believe it is the best solution. It is my job, as Minister of Justice and Preparedness, to translate the point of the Government Declaration into practical action. The assessment of how a new Police Armaments Instructions should be anchored and the order in which the Government Declaration is implemented is part of the ongoing work. Regardless of this, it is important to get an updated weapons instruction and work on it, based on the setting of the working group, is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1179	When we look at the cooperation agreement between the government and the Left and Christian People's Party, which was concluded before the Sundvolden declaration between the two government parties, there is nothing about general armaments or the wording used by the Right and the Advance Party in the Sundvolden Declaration. When you say that you want to open up general arms where the police themselves think it's the best solution, does the Council of State think that he has the authority to move on with it and send it out to the police districts in a form where it can be seen as if you'd be able to implement this without a treatment on the Stortinget? Or do you want to suggest that the Storting must give permission if you are to put in place a general weapon scheme where the police themselves think it is the best solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1186	That question is too early to answer. We're also working on the government statement on this point, and we're working on how to implement this in practice. If the Storting is to be involved, the Storting will be involved, but it is simply too early to answer what the process will be like until its final result.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1191	Yeah, it'll be exciting to hear when the government finds out. It is difficult for me to see that in the case of general armaments – which is very controversial, and where it seems that there is only one party that has been clearly positive, namely the Advance Party, and then the Right more hesitant, but that otherwise there are no other parties on the Storting for – there is a majority for that. Then you have to be careful about how to approach Stortinget in such a question. I really think it should be clear that you can't put in place a warrant for general armaments for the police without being inside the Storting. But what does the Council of State add to the term ‘police’? If, as the Council of State says, a general weapon could be put in place for the police, where the police think it is necessary, what does the term ‘police’ mean? What level do you think it is? Because when this case is being consulted, there is a question that is being raised around. What does the police mean? Who is the decision maker?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1198	As I said, this is a work that we have in the process, so it is difficult to answer concrete questions until we have completed that process. After all, the starting point for the police districts themselves to assess this must be that it is the police master’s authority that can be a current authority holder in order to implement this. Otherwise, I represent a minority government, a minority government that is very conscious of what kind of relationship you are dependent on having to the Storing, and that is the basis of all the work the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1207	I'm glad the Minister of Knowledge came in time for the hour. My question is about the cultural sphere. ‘It is in these days 10 years since the red-green parties launched the Cultural Promise where the cultural schools were a priority area. One measure was incentives for the development of cultural schools. One of the conclusions of the evaluation of the scheme shows that cultural schools rely on incentives to develop new projects and that the funds have led to a greater diversity of activities. What are the ambitions and measures of the Government for the continued development of cultural schools, so that more children and young people can take part in this offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1216	Let me first just say that my relative delay was simply due to the fact that the Storting had my old phone number, so I'm sorry, but now it went fine. The government is concerned that Norway must have a professional cultural life that holds an international standard, and this starts already in kindergarten and in school with the offer of children and young sheep. We want to ensure that children and young people have good cultural experiences, and that young talents are given the opportunity to deepen and develop independently of social and economic backgrounds. That's why the cultural schools are important. They represent a school of their own, which is required by law for the municipalities, but an offer for the students. The cultural schools are responsible for both depression and latitudes. We haven't changed this, and this government has no plans to change it either. This government chose to remove the cultural school hour in the SFO and redispatch the funds allocated to it. However, there is still room for local action to find good forms of cooperation between the school, the SFO and the cultural school. The government trusts that municipalities will find good solutions to this without state interference. That being said, the government grants 17.9 million. SEK for the operation of Norwegian Schools of Culture and Cultural Schools (Cultural Schools) which implement projects to develop the cultural school offer in the municipalities. I expect municipalities to adapt supply and level of ambition to local resources and needs. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Knowledge have in cooperation established an expert group on art and culture in the training to deliver their report at the end of April 2014. The aim is to strengthen the overall effort in this area and the expert group shall provide advice to help improve resource use, coordination and quality assurance of the activities now being undertaken for the benefit of children and young people. I will, in cooperation with the Minister of Culture, come back to follow-up here later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1227	I thank you for your answer. What the Center Party is busy about is that the municipalities are dependent on development tools to develop their cultural spheres. I am aware that in the framework transfers today there are investments on the cultural sphere. Culture teacher Bjørn Morten Kjærnes at Kontra Music School in Ski has sent a letter to the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister of Culture addressing ten different issues or challenges, including: the use of music and culture for learning. He draws out PISA studies, including: that countries that score well in PISA studies have a lot of instrument education. Does the Minister of Knowledge see here the possibility of running a project or of trying out further education in that direction to strengthen the learning of our schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1236	I've seen the letter I got from the cultural school principal in Ski, and he's going to get answers. We'll take care of that. It's exciting to look at how aesthetic subjects, for example. Music, can stimulate development in other subjects, but I also think it is important to say that aesthetic competence is an important part of the school itself. The reason why we have aesthetic subjects in school, or because we have cultural schools, is not that we're going to be better in mathematics and Norwegian, but that aesthetic subjects are important in themselves. I would also like to stress that with the government’s great teacher’s promise, which is now being rolled out with opportunities for continuing training – a great deal of extra funding for it – the rate of further training in aesthetic subjects has also been increased. I think that's important. I'm also generally positive for trials, so if someone has interesting and exciting experiments in this area, I like to look at them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1245	I absolutely share the insight and the devices taken by the Minister of Knowledge, but it is also being drawn out, among other things. when it comes to the pursuit of music against language and understanding, this means that an easier way of acquiring other subjects, a teacher by thinking about music. I also record that the Minister of Knowledge himself has taken part in education in the field of culture. What kind of effect this has on us as a human being in learning processes is the next moment. I note that the Minister of Knowledge could be a little more clear if one could think that this was being tried even more strongly in interaction with other subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1252	I think absolutely there are a lot of exciting opportunities there, and I have also seen studies that show that, for example. aesthetic subjects may be involved in stimulating the learning outcomes of other subjects. I believe that in the aesthetic subjects at school, in order to use that collective term, we have some of the same challenges that we have in many other disciplines. From the latest available data we have for teachers' competence, we can see, for example: that many lack depression. It's not like aesthetics are less important in school than other subjects. Competence, the possibility of further education, is just as important here as in other subjects, with a small exception, and that's that we've given extra incentives for further education in real life. I don't think the ministry is going to go through and orchestrate projects in each school, but I'm very positive to schools that want to try it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1263	This question, from the representative Sonja Mandt to the Minister of Knowledge, is raised by the representative Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1266	My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: ‘The Right-Fremskritsparte government has ensured that private kindergartens are allocated an additional 69 million. kr over the State budget from 1 August 2014. This is justified on a non-discriminatory basis. From individual municipalities as well as from KS and Telemark research, questions are now being asked about the basis for this non-discrimination. In view of this, will the Council of State take the initiative to review the non-discrimination regulation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1275	I thank you for an important and interesting question. I just want to remind you a little bit about the history. Former Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen said that she wanted equal treatment in the financing of private and public kindergartens, and that it would be put in place by 2014. When the red-green government went off, there was no money for this. In other words, there is still discrimination. In 2013, the Directorate of Education was commissioned to carry out an overall review of the equivalent treatment rule for the award of government grants to non-municipal kindergartens. This work was initiated by the previous government and continued by this government. We are therefore in the process of reviewing the financing scheme for private kindergartens, with the aim of fulfilling what is on the platform, namely to have transparent and stable funding for kindergartens. The representative points out that Telemark research poses questions about the basis for non-discrimination between municipal and private kindergartens. Telemark research has commissioned the Directorate of Education to produce a report that discusses how pension costs and capital costs should be addressed in the calculation of grants. The report shows that private kindergartens have lower pension expenditure than municipal kindergartens and therefore receive more in grants than they need to cover pension expenditure. The report also shows that the capital grant does not cover the real cost of capital in private kindergartens. In the light of the report from Telemarksforschung, the Education Directorate has proposed to introduce a template supplement for pensions and an age-differentiated capital grant for private kindergartens. The proposals are intended to provide a more accurate grant. What we're going to do on the part of the government is to evaluate these proposals and other input we've received about the funding mechanism. We do this in close dialogue with the local community sector and, of course, the nursery sector. The government wants to ensure real equal treatment for all kindergartens. We have also said that we want to escalate the grant of equal treatment to 100 pst. of what municipal kindergartens receive in public support, and we want to design a funding scheme to ensure that private kindergartens are not systematically over- or under-compensated. But the results of the rather large and complicated review are not available right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1286	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State has gone into the report that Telemark's research submitted to the Directorate of Education. It shows, as the Council of State says, that it's 15 pst. lower costs in private kindergartens than in public kindergartens. 7 pst. This is because there are more children with special needs in public kindergartens than in private kindergartens, and 8 pst. because pension costs are lower. Only pension costs are considered to be 700 million. kr. That means that the private kindergartens get 700 million. kr more in grants than they actually have. Now the new government is increasing that grant by 69 million. kr. It's almost 170 million. kr on an annual basis, and we're up in a difference of almost 1 billion. kr, for which private kindergartens are provided, for which they are not charged. Does the Council of State think that this is a good way to spend public money?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1293	Firstly, this government is fulfilling what the previous government promised, but broke a promise in the state budget for 2014. Anyone can find the statements of Kristin Halvorsen, where she said the goal is equal treatment between private and public kindergartens. I haven't heard anyone from the red-green parties say that that promise doesn't stand by until the representative Aasrud says it today. Secondly, I think you should think a little bit about what the consequences are. If the Labour Party's policy now is that there should be total equal treatment based on the calculation of the pension costs of the kindergarten sector in the municipalities, it must mean that about 1 billion. kr, if we are to rely on Telemark research, are to be withdrawn from the kindergarten sector. It's a pretty dramatic cut in grants. When we also know that crewing, educators and adult density are related to the appropriations that you get, I think we should think quite carefully about it before we subtract 1 billion. kr of the private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1300	I thank you again for the answer, but the Red Isaac does not respond to what I ask him. That's almost 1 billion. do not go to increased staff, do not go to better working conditions, better basic staff, to ensure that the employees of the private kindergartens have the rights of public sector employees. We don't see that money in the accounts of the private kindergartens as an expense, because they have lower costs. Then I just want to repeat my question: Does the Red Isaac mean that it makes sense that almost 1 billion. kr is granted for kindergarten purposes and not used for kindergarten purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1305	I do not agree with the problem description. Just to say it: there comes a case that concerns Halden municipality, if I don't remember completely wrong – or was it Sarpsborg municipality? – where they tried to have a different way of calculating their pension costs. The legal conclusion – not the political conclusion – is that it is not within the current legislation. Today's legislation is exactly the same as the red-green ones had. So I'm asking for some understanding that if you're going to have a complete review of the legislation, which can ultimately lead to a drawing of 1 billion. Now, out of the sector, you need a little bit of time. But these are completely new notes from the Workers' Party. This was also a problem in the past – the same legislation, the same issues – but the previous government chose to push this ahead and postpone it, which means that we now have to look at it, and we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-26.ana.ud2183e1320	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
