ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e26	An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos from 15 January onwards. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Anette C. Elseth, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e44	Anette C. Elseth is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e56	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Elisabeth Aspaker and Solvency Horne will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e63	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. We are a few weeks into the new year, and the adopted budget for 2014 applies. We discussed the budget's arrangements here last year, and now we can start measuring the effects on the world of reality. A clear priority in this budget was to invest less in kindergartens. They are fewer and more expensive, and the cash support has increased. Yesterday we could read that in the municipality in which the Minister of Finance and I live and are elected from – Oslo – 2 300 children are waiting for the available children's home. One of the bets from the previous government was to get enough kindergartens in place and get the price reduced. We did it. Some 80 000 new places were created, and prices were actually reduced by several ten thousand kroner per year. In the budget for 2014, the Stoltenberg II Government proposed to start the process of stepping up two kindergartens by providing sufficient funds for the establishment of approximately 2,900 new places. We also proposed to reduce the price for 2014. So the government makes other choices. Instead of providing more kindergartens, it's getting fewer. Instead of reducing prices, they're getting higher. Some parents will then probably choose to be at home with children because of the cash support. But what thoughts does the Council of State make when she reads about over 2,000 families with young children who now want kindergarten, but don't have the prospect of getting it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e74	I think I'm going to leave to the responsible state council to go further into kindergarten policy, but what I can say on a general basis is that the state budget for 2014 contains a wide range of measures to strengthen the economy of families with children through both tax cuts and a wide range of other measures that we believe are well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. I have recorded that in the last few days the opposition has tried to draw a slightly caricatured picture of what they think is unfortunate distribution effects of the budget for 2014. I disagree. I think it's a little strange to think that tax relief is a problem for the regular household or for business. Rather, it reinforces the potential for increased value creation. It strengthens the opportunities to secure employment in the future, and it is important. It is also not true that kindergarten prices have been increased through this budget. The government has only restated child care prices and the maximum price is continued at the same real level as in 2013. I think you're going to approach this discussion with a slightly larger width. One of the starting points for the government parties when we went to the elections was to turn the policy and lead it in a somewhat different direction than the red-green parties had, and we've delivered it. We went to choices to reduce the tax burden. That's what we've started with. We went to the choice of greater freedom of choice for families with children. That's what we're doing. There is a policy that a majority of voters have wanted and that the government is now following.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e83	This is certainly the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, because it is about the social economy. She's talking about a policy that's been turned in a different direction. Yeah, that's right. For the 2,300 children who now do not have kindergarten, the policy is turned in a different direction. What they can comfort themselves with is 50 cents in tax dollars a day. Here they can have a clear choice from the government. The government has turned the policy in a different direction and has a different priority: 50 cents in tax bills per day. Those that have over 2 million. kr in income gets NOK 40000 in tax bills per year, but they are not so careful. These families of children get comfort out of it. It's a bad consolation. At the NHO conference last week, we received very interesting data from Professor Mari Rege at the University of Stavanger on the importance of good kindergartens, which equip children for better language and math skills and better social and emotional skills, important for their contribution to the social economy later in life. When the Minister of Finance is now working on his 2015 budget elections, how will she include this knowledge in her assessments? The initiative in kindergartens is important in order to achieve a well-functioning social economy, where people can really provide and have equal opportunities for education and work at the start of their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e90	There is a broad political consensus that kindergartens are important and that we should make sure that there are kindergartens for those who want them. What's the difference between this government and the previous one is that, in addition to making facilities for kindergarten places for those who want it, we also make it possible for families with children to choose differently where they want to do it. It's about values. It is a matter of value whether you trust that each family can make choices. But if you want a real choice, you have to have different economic incentives just to be able to make those choices. But then I want to remind the representative Støre that the starting point for the comprehensive kindergarten reform that has been carried out over several years did not come from the Workers' Party. It was initiated by the Progress Party and the SV, which was the starting point of the kindergarten agreement that has led to the strong development of kindergartens over the past few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e97	There will be four follow-up questions – first Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e100	I am absolutely sure that the Council of State understands the desperate situation in which young children's parents who are now waiting in kindergarten are in. But this also has much larger dimensions. The description of two nursery admissions, the reintroduction of tax class 2, increased cash support: all of this is a direct incentive for more women to be at home. The government itself has calculated that there will be 7 000 fewer children in kindergarten next year. The progress party opposed the pension reform, which now means that older workers work as never before. So now the government's party is in the vanguard of a series of measures that will weaken the supply of work for a large group of workers. One of the clearest conclusions in the perspective communication was that we depend entirely on people's work to support the welfare state. My question is, is this something that concerns the Council of States at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e107	The problem with the question of Marianne Marthinsen is that there's a lot of mistakes. So the first error is that we haven't reintroduced class 2. What has happened through this budgetary agreement is that the tax class 2 pressure is less now than it was last year. That is the reality. It is also the case that, through both fiscal policy and the way in which we establish economic policy, government is, on the contrary, committed to strengthening labour supply. After all, we are going in force to see how we can now improve the situation so that the 600,000 people on the outside of the world of work can easily get through the barrier and get in. We're looking at how to make sure that people can do more work, at least those who want to do it. There is a wide range of measures that we are looking at, which collectively and individually will help to strengthen the supply of work in Norway, and that will be good for the Norwegian economy far into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e112	Social Fight Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e115	Thank you for that, President. Then I'm going to carry out this battle here with Councillor Horne. My follow-up question – or follow-up battle – goes to Solvency Horne. [[Laughter]] In August, when Solveig Horne was a staggering representative, she was very clear and clear when she said that the Progress Party would have a running nursery reception – preferably yesterday. So Solvency Horne became the Council of State, and the first councillor Horne does, is to remove the possibility of two annual admissions, which we had begun to escalate. I want to use Horne's own words: ‘It is a shame that parents have to plan their birth in order to be guaranteed kindergarten’. Now there are 2,300 children without children's playground. Is that still a shame?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e130	I thank you for the question. This question is to be answered by the Minister of Knowledge, but I have no problem defending the government's budget, given that we have now invested a great deal in school in relation to the budget that was in place. So it's like today that all 1-year-olds have the right to babysitting. The government is now working to create a much more flexible system, so that several one-year-olds can have room in kindergartens, while we also know that a lot of municipalities today have ongoing admissions, and that more and more children have room in kindergartens. What was important for this government in the budget work, where we had a very short time, was to put in place more flexibility for the families by increasing the common share of the parental leave, and not least by increasing the cash support. But I want to add that in the budget provided by the Stoltenberg II government, there was not a single penny added to the follow-up to the ongoing nursery reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e137	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions. Before Trine Skei Grande takes the floor, the President will be allowed to say that he is sorry for the delay in the introduction of Battle Violence Vedum. It's nice with what's in your head. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e142	Yes, President, it's not always so clever that it comes out. [[Laughter]] I would like to ask questions, continue to the Minister of Finance, because it is about the major macropriorities. The Minister of Finance said in his reply earlier today that there is a broad consensus on the importance of kindergartens. The research presented at the NHO Annual Conference also shows that it has a lot to say for a good start to life. The groups for which it is most important are those who may not get the best ballast from home, for example. language, if one grows up in a home where mother does not speak Norwegian, or if one grows up in a home with few resources to follow up. That's why maybe the group that needs kindergarten is the most, they have the worst advice. The group that needs kindergarten the most is those who have mothers who should have had a little extra schooling to get the opportunity to get out of work. My question is whether the Council of State understands that this is the most important group to prioritise when looking at prices and when looking at measures for those in need of these kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e149	There are many important issues to discuss in terms of both distributional considerations, and – not least – how we can best facilitate the success of all in their future working life. I am very pleased that the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left gave greater freedom of choice to children's families, based on the confidence that these four parties believe that we must give to individuals and single families. But I am also quite sure that in the future budgets we will have good discussions, not least with the Christian People's Party and the Left, on how we can better and more accurately design the instruments, in order to reach those we really believe there is a need to help better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e154	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e157	In the main question from the Workers' Party, there are interesting observations. It is now at the level of talking about the contribution of children to the social economy. I think it's interesting to note how close you are to seeing the family as a kind of production unit in AS Norway, and that's the social view you're building on. My question to the Council of State concerns those groups that under red-green rule actually received higher nursery prices, actually, due to the maximum price. As Trine Skei Grande refers to, we now have a budgetary settlement where one of the points is just going to make it easier for those who have the worst advice to get into kindergarten. Does the Council of State see that they can be accommodated in kindergarten as an important element, too, in order to help raise those who have the worst income in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e164	Let me first say that I share many of the reflections that Hans Olav Syversen just expressed. There is one reason why these four batches have found a strong community, among other things. in the view of individuals and in the values of having confidence that each family can make a good choice in how they want to facilitate their children's growth conditions. We are going to follow up on all these elements of the budgetary agreement, precisely because it is important – we have respect for the agreements we have concluded with the Christian People's Party and the Left. But not least, it's about looking at how we can design the instruments, so that they are as accurate as possible. It's about, as I also said in my answer to Trine Skei Grande, facilitating the conditions as best as possible, so that everyone has a good starting point for meeting their future working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e169	Snorre Serigstad Valen - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e172	After a good enough question from the representative of the Syversen to the Minister of Finance, I will try to be mild in tone. The finance minister argued for the cash support with confidence, i.e. trust in women, first and foremost, who stay home with children. Then it's worth noting that the same government that the Council of State represents wants to fully adjust the retirement pension to the disability, i.e. people who can't work anymore and who can't do anything with the incentive councils talking about. So my question is, simply: what makes increased cash support, more expensive kindergartens, fewer kindergartens and keeping tax class 2, cut in the paperwork and budget more women stay at home longer, are grips that get more in work? And how does this relate to the government's other line of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e177	I respect the fact that there are parties in Stortinget that are against cash support. The reason why some of us are in favour is that it's simply about giving families with children the opportunity to arrange the care of their children in the first years of their life in a way different from an A4 solution determined by the politicians. So the question of whether the choices that families with children take in the first few years of a child's life span is so dramatic that it affects one's overall earnings far into old age. I'm not so sure. I believe that most of us are well informed, and have the opportunity to make that choice based on an overall view. Not least, it is also about having the basic confidence that each family itself makes the choices that they think are right. I owe it to add that all, most of the families of young children choose kindergarten for their children. Those who want to choose differently must have the opportunity to do so, and it facilitates this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e182	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e186	The question goes to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. Let only one thing be clear: the best thing for children is the most important thing, also in the case of child protection in Norway. I believe that both the Christian People's Party and the Council of State agree. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that ideal nonprofits in child protection are also for the benefit of children. Ideal actors have an ideal purpose. They have non-profit articles of association. They cannot take out any profits from the business, and they do not have large equity in their backs. They follow up public tariffs and provide employees with good pay and pension contracts, i.e.: that they have public-like agreements with their employees. Retirement contracts give rise to long-term and very heavy obligations. Just before Christmas, Secretary of State Maria Hoff Aanes met the Ideal Children's Protection Forum, which organizes twenty ideal child protection companies. They were told that the government considered whether there should be more equality between ideal and commercial actors. The councils themselves stated to the newspaper Our Country that ideal child protection institutions have nothing to fear if they deliver good quality at the right price. The problem is that we fear that the Council of State definition of the right price will undermine the ideals, unless the state compensates for the pension costs resulting from the ideal public-like pensions imposed on them in their time. Otherwise, the ideal child protection institutions cannot compete with the private or commercial ones. Is the Council of State definition of a fair price with or without compensation for pension costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e193	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party addresses this important question and in particular that they point so clearly that it is the best of children that is most important in this debate. For four years, I have been discussing in Stortinget the situation of child protection and the challenge they have to be able to give the right offer to the children who need help at all times. We've seen too many times that you haven't managed to give children in child protection a better everyday life than what they were moved from. That's why we need a variety of hands out there that can help those kids who need help from the state. The main objective for me as Minister of Children, and not least for the government, is to provide the best possible child protection for vulnerable children and young people. Then we have to put all our hands into action. Ideal organisations are an important part of that work. Today, we're using both state spaces, ideal places and commercial places. Now a cooperation agreement, which the previous government entered into, and which was supported by the Christian People's Party, applies to the first use of the state, then the ideals and then the commercial actors. For me, it is important that we think about the children and not what kind of governance the help measures have. The government cooperation agreement is not just about the child protection sector. It is about the drugs sector, and the important actors in the non-profit sector that the government wants to make use of and provide good, predictable framework conditions and agreements. I will return to that agreement when the government has seen how it should be. I think it's important to focus on the kids. We need both government institutions, the non-profit sector and the commercial sector, which make important contributions to the children who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e206	There is no doubt that the Christian People’s Party agrees with the Council of State that it is the best of children that is at stake. I think it is interesting that she also mentions the agreement that was concluded with the non-profit sector in its time. There was, of course, a cross-political agreement to facilitate good interaction between the voluntary and public sectors. This was reflected in the Storting’s consideration of the Spring 2010 Progress Party’s proposal on the establishment of a so-called social contract to improve interaction between the public and non-profit sector. The red-green government followed this up in 2012 when they concluded the cooperation agreement between Freedom Norway, Ideal Network and KS Business. It is interesting when we are now faced with a new debate: Will the Council of State work to ensure that the government continues the agreement between Freedom Norway, Ideal Network and KS Business?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e211	What I promise is that this government wants to play with the ideal organizations and the ideal sector. Therefore, the government wants to continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit organisations. However, I would like to return to the arrangement when the government has had a discussion of it. What I can promise the Christian People's Party is that they will be taken well on advice before we finally write that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e216	It opens up three additional questions – first from Astrid Aarhus Byrknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e219	Garne’s Youth Centre in Hordaland provides high-quality child protection services, but does not have a large group in its back. It is important for private, ideal actors, and not least for young people who live there, that there is competence, stability and good governance. There are children in Garnes today between 13 and 15 years of age. If Garnes were to lose in a competition in 2014, the consequence is that these children have to leave their home. If the government now wants an open competition between the private, non-profit and commercial players, I fear they will lose their ideals. Many of the ideals are heavily dependent on the pension that cannot be left out of the pricing of the services. There are no equal terms between the commercial and the ideals. So my question is, have institutions, like, Garnes, a future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e224	Yes, they have. In the years I've been a big-time representative, and before, I've been visiting non-profit organisations and institutions that are doing an incredibly good job for the kids who need help. The very many of these organisations are calling for long-termity and predictability. We're talking about children's lives here, and children's lives are not just one or two years, but over very many years. Therefore, my intention is to provide the non-profit organisations, as well as the private, long-term agreements and predictability, so that they can create a secure framework for the children who need help. I do not share the representative's concern. I've seen so many good and competent ideal institutions that do such an important work for the children. Those kids should have the security that we all need. We need the ideal organizations, while we need everyone else who can help to give the children who need help a good upbringing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e231	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e234	There is great concern in the non-profit sector about the government's missing signal on child protection. The non-profit organisations are an important supplier of premises, and the agreements with the institutions expire on 1 January 2015. There is also great concern when it is signaled that the government does not intend to continue the cooperation agreement that was very well received by the non-profit sector, and that it has been unclear whether the government will continue the arrangement with its own bidding rounds for the non-profit organisations. My questions are: How can the Council of State believe that an open bidding round with the pension challenges that are among the ideals will lead to more non-profit activity in the field of child protection? When will the cooperation agreement take effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e239	As I have said before, a lot of people in this room are concerned about using state institutions, non-profit institutions or private institutions. My main concern is to focus on the children, and that we always have an offer for the individual child who needs help. I want to remind the representative Toppe, whose party has been in government for eight years, that such a situation has now existed, they have bought 50 pst. of the places needed by non-profit, private and commercial actors. Of the 50 pst. which is used by ideal and commercial, it is 40 pst. which is used by the ideals. For this government, the ideal actors will become important in the future – just as it has been in the years before. But I must be allowed to come back to the device on this. I focus on the fact that at all times we have an offer for the children who need it. Whether the hands are ideal, commercial or state-owned is subordinate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e246	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e250	Governments have said on several occasions that she is concerned with everyday feminism. I guess the Council of State is concerned about how women feel in everyday life. In the field of child protection, the majority of those employed are women. Ideal network informs that in their organisations there are 891 employees. At present, when they do not know whether they will be in a sheltered tender in one year's time, there is considerable uncertainty for those employed by organisations. If the Council of State intends to use NPISHs in the future, why can it not then clarify this and ensure that those who work in the sector also have the security they need for their jobs, and thus also contribute to the good services of the young people who are there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e255	I can answer it very briefly: this government – and I as Minister of Children – is going to break in for us to use NPISHs. There are ideal actors today who do a great job for the children who need it. Of course: Having good quality, delivering the right offer to the individual child, and so do female employees in the institution – whether private, non-profit or state – have a safe and predictable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e262	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e265	It's home to the most insecure kids we've ever talked about — kids who've lost their homes. These, if any, need to know where to live next month, next year -- the rest of the time they need a home to live before they grow up. This is why SV took the initiative to phase out the commercial and use the state and the volunteers, because then we could avoid the rules on tenders. In any case, if you buy a tender, you'll end up in a situation where you risk losing your home once more, because the one with whom you've lived loses a tender. My question to the Minister for Children is: why does she think it's okay that the most insecure kids lose their homes because it's a commercial player who loses a bid?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e272	For eight years SV has been in government. For four years they had the Minister for Children and Gender Equality – and, I say, the Minister for Child Protection. I wish they had been equally concerned about the children who have had to move and move because we have not at all had the right offer for them. Last August, 237 children were waiting for a foster family. Maybe we could have used some of the institutional space on these kids. That is why we need both ideal, commercial and state actors, precisely to ensure that the children who need our help get the right offer at all times. I fully agree with the representative when she says that we are talking about the homes of these children, and that there must be predictability. A lot of these kids don't have that predictability. At least they didn't have it under the red-green government. They had to move and move and move because we did not find the right offer for them. My concern here is always to be able to give these children what they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e279	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e282	My main question is to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen. Minister of Finance and Fee Siv Jensen is head of a party that last year's 40th anniversary. ‘Anders Langes Parti for a strong reduction in taxes, levies and public intervention’ was the start. Then came Carl I. Hagen. Everyone remembers his viable fight for lower gas and diesel prices. If there was a petrol pump or diesel pump, it was very likely that Hagen was standing next to it and was indignant. We, who were sitting here in the hall in the last period, remember that the Progress Party called for a fixed price scheme for petrol – NOK 11 litres – and suggested lowering prices. This has been a game for 39.5 years. And then something happened. The party of progress was given power. What was the result of power? Yes, the taxes on petrol and car diesel increased. You increased moderately, but they increased. In the middle of it there was a historical increase in the taxes on so-called duty-free diesel. Never has there been such an increase in diesel costs as under Minister of Finance Siv Jensen. I don't want to believe that repeating this is what Siv Jensen dreams about most. Therefore, my question to Minister for Finance and Fee Jensen is: Will she take the initiative to reduce fees to red-green levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e291	I want to thank Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum for the question. This once again gives me the opportunity to stress that in three weeks this government reduced the total tax and tax burden by over 7 billion. kr, as much as the red-green government in its eight years of increased tax burden. So we're doing well what we promised the voters, reducing the tax and tax burden in Norway. I think you have to allow yourself to look at the whole thing. It is necessary to look at how this affects both increased employment, safe jobs and new investments, which will be crucial for the future economy of Norway. This government has announced that it will review the fees to see if they are organised as they should be, whether they work as intended. We're doing this. We are going to go through the entire car tax system to see how we can do better. We are constantly working specifically to see how we can further improve the functioning of the tax system and at the same time under the heading that we want to reduce the overall tax burden. The fact that we have carried out a substantial tax reduction in such a short time indicates that we have received a government that thinks differently in tax policy. Where the previous government was busy keeping tax and tax pressures high, this government is working to reduce the overall tax and tax burden. It is quite right that, in the context of the budget agreement at Stortinget, an increase in the mineral oil levy was made, a decision to which all parties – with the exception of the Centre Party – joined. This also has some implications for the climate agreement, which has been decided on, inter alia. to phase out oil firing by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e304	I thank you for the answer from Minister for Finance and Fee Jensen. The advance party chose – when one put things at the head here in Stortinget – to trap the Willoch government for an increase in the petrol price of less than 50 cents. When the Progress Party came to power, one seemed quite legitimate to increase diesel prices by over 80 cents. There is a slight difference between the opposition and the position – quite clearly. My question is about the machine contractors. A medium sized Norwegian machine contractor will have more than 0.5 million. kr more in increased costs. For them, it does not help others to get lower taxes on wealth. Is there consistency between the Progress Party promised in the election campaign – lower fees, lower costs in the construction industry – and sending a large bill to all who build roads around the country? Minister of Finance and Fee, Siv Jensen, it is wise that everyone who builds roads, on average, should receive 0.5 million. kr more in fees this year than they had last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e313	I do not agree with the claim that there is a difference between the Progress Party in opposition and in position. We chose to lower the tax burden. The first thing we did when we came into government with the Right was to propose to the Stortinget a significant reduction in tax and tax burden. We have delivered what we went to the elections on. It's absolutely right that we haven't done everything. Therefore, this government intends to continue its efforts to improve the tax system, and we intend to continue our efforts to reduce the overall pressure. I think it's important to also look at the whole thing. I have heard a whole Norwegian business life be very pleased with many of the tax changes the government proposed and was adopted in Stortinget before Christmas. It is about taxes on wealth, about the loss of the inheritance fee and about the fact that we have reduced the corporate tax and the personal tax to 27 pst. This has been very well received by an overall Norwegian business community, which expresses optimism — including for the future. In addition, we had in the budget a record bet on transportation. It will also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e322	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e326	Under construction.no, you can read that the increased diesel tax ‘scrapers the bottom line of the contractors’. In the 2008 government budget, the red-green government introduced increased taxes on small power plants. There were strong reactions to this from the industry – one so that one had taken the wrong grip – and already in January the red-green government announced that this would be reversed. It happened, and the tax tightening didn't have any effect. My question is: An introduced such a tax increase without investigation – it was not written a word about it. Now that the reactions and impacts of this on the construction sector, on the agricultural sector and on several sectors, are willing to take a new round to see if this was a wise move to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e333	Firstly, the previous government tightened the overall tax and tax burden, and they realized that some of the scarfs were wrong and thus reversed them, were wise. But unlike the previous government, this government has reduced the total tax and tax burden by over 7 billion. kr, which benefits Norwegian business. In addition, of course, this government follows closely the development of the Norwegian economy. We have close contact with business organisations and listen to the recordings they make. This means that there is a need to make changes in the appropriations, to make changes in different areas, this government will continuously assess it, for example: against the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e338	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e341	I'll be brief. Simply put, the Council of State agrees that a green tax change – including looking at the mineral oil tax, the petrol tax, the car diesel tax and the CO2 tax – is necessary in order to achieve the climate objectives that the climate agreement says we should reach, namely that we should cut by 47 million. tonnes of annual emissions in 2020 and that this can be combined with tax relief for both enterprises and employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e349	Based on the experiments that the Right and Advance Party had with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government platform says that we should put down a green tax commission. It is about looking at the overall impact of a possible green tax shift, looking at how we can set this up together with the overall ambition of this government to bring down the overall tax burden in Norway. We are now working on how to put down such a green tax commission, which mandate it will be given, and how it will work towards making recommendations to the government on how to set this up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e356	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e359	My question goes to Minister of Fisheries Elisabeth Aspaker. Russia is the largest market for Norwegian fish. In order to maintain and further develop our market in Russia, it is particularly important that Norwegian fish exporters have the best possible access to this market at all times. At the beginning of 2014, a number of Norwegian fish exporters were affected by an exclusion from the Russian market. This is serious for these exporters. I visited such an enterprise and exporter now in the new year, a company that is in a difficult situation if they are not allowed to export herring to Russia – a difficult situation for both the operators of the company and not least for the employees. If this situation does not resolve and the fish buyers do not realize that they can accept fish from Norwegian fishing vessels because of the failure of a crucial market, the whole fishing industry will be affected, i.e. have consequences beyond the individual holding. This is an inconspicuous situation as the fish buyers and the individual exporter do not have the full clarity as to why they are excluded. Following media disclosure, it appears that the Russian veterinary authorities generally exclude Norwegian holdings. The left is concerned about this situation as it appears that the Russian authorities have a general reaction to Norwegian fish exporters. Does the Minister for Fisheries share this concern, and what does or will the Minister for Fisheries do to resolve this unsustainable situation for exporters and industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e372	I am very pleased that the representative of Pål Farstad focuses on this challenging problem for the Norwegian fishing industry. The lack of predictability experienced by the salmon industry, as the whitefish industry is now also experiencing, is very serious for Norway, which is so dependent on finding markets and exporting the fish we fish and produce. Russia is also not a small country in such a context. It is the most important individual market for Norwegian fish, so it is very important that we have open export channels for Russia. I can inform you that there is quite a hectic meeting activity between the Norwegian Food Safety Authority and the Russian veterinary authorities on how to resolve the situation that has arisen. We are now looking at how to adapt the Norwegian supervisory methodology in such a way that it meets the Russian requirements for how this is to be implemented. However, it has to be said that Norway initially has a system based on the fact that it is the individual business itself to ensure food safety. There is a risk-based supervision, but in Russia the requirement is to monitor each batch of fish to be exported. But we're taking this very seriously. It is an incredibly important market for Norway, and we are absolutely ‘hands on’ to bring about a new dialogue and to resolve the situation, which is very serious for the Norwegian seafood companies that are closed out from the Russian market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e379	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I am pleased that the Department has drawn attention to the matter. I still want to see a little bit ahead, a little 'in the worst case' thinking here. We're looking at what's happening in the Fishery Magazine Fishman today that the sea is full of herring, and we know that the biggest activity in herring fish is right now and in the weeks ahead. Large catches are therefore to be traded – huge catches. Despite the answer given by the Minister for Fisheries here, I would like to hear as a follow-up whether the Minister for Fisheries has a plan for what to do, perhaps. together with Norway's sea wire, whose situation in Russia against assumption would be prolonged.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e386	We now have only one master plan, and that is to reopen the Russian market for the companies that are excluded. There is hectic meeting activity on the Norwegian side now to look at how the Food Safety Authority should be able to change its supervisory pattern as soon as possible in order to meet the requirements of the Russian side. We know that Denmark has made such adjustments. They operate one surveillance system against Russia and have other surveillance systems aimed at other export markets. We can learn from that. If there are not other things behind, then I have good reason to believe that we are going to reopen these channels, that we are going to have that dialogue with the Russian veterinary authorities, and that in a relatively short time we are going to get this back into normal practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e391	It opens for three follow-up questions – first Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e395	The Council of State refers to extensive meeting activities between the Food Authority and the Russian veterinary service. However, in the case of salmon, the Russian Competition Authority, FAS, considers that there is an illegal cartel consisting of the largest Russian salmon importers and that they cooperate with the Russian veterinary service to gain control of the salmon market in Russia. Several Norwegian salmon exporters are alleged to have been forced to sign exclusive agreements back in 2011. Those who signed these agreements with the two largest importers are not currently excluded, while 15 other non-signed salmon slaughterhouses are excluded. Then my question becomes: If this is correct – is this being disputed by the veterinary authorities also in Russia and, of course, the importers – is it holding meetings between the Food Authority and the Russian veterinary service? Isn't this a much bigger problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e402	We are absolutely aware of the reports that have come on the Russian side and claim that there is also competition irregularity in Russia. We have faith that this is something that the Russian authorities do on their side. On the other hand, there is also contact between the Russian FAS and the Norwegian Competition Authority, because we are also concerned that nothing should be done in this industry that violates Norwegian competition law. So here, there's also contact at that level so that we also have to deal with that side of this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e409	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e412	We are certain that Russia is a very important market for Norway, and that it is important to do everything possible to maintain that market and also access new markets. Then we have to have tools beyond what's called hectic meeting activity. Nofima got a cut of 10 million. kr by the government of Solberg, the Swedish Food Authority also received a cut – funds that would have gone to increase market access. I will not do as Erna Solberg did in this Chamber in 2006, to demand that the Minister sit on the first flights to Russia and arrange. My question is: what concrete action will the Minister take to improve and increase market access for Norwegian fish in Russia, but also in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e419	Work is very good both in Norway's sea wire, Nofima and other actors involved in research, innovation and product development. The industry also takes an important responsibility for adapting and meeting the market demand for more products and perhaps products other than what we are offering today. I believe that the budget that was adopted before Christmas turns on some funds, but is very clear that more market efforts are important here, and more product development is important. Norway's sea wire works very well and has clear plans for 2014 about how to go out in both old and new markets, and I sincerely hope that we will establish a trade agreement with India quite soon, and that the large market there will also mean a new open door for important Norwegian fishing teams out in a large world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e426	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e429	This round of questions shows that this is a serious and really complex issue, and these market access issues are very important for the Norwegian fishing industry — particularly for Russia. It's good that you're reviewing the system. It is good that the Swedish Maritime Administration does its job, and it is good that the Food Authority should review the routines. But there have also been some serious claims. The claims made in Today’s Business a few days ago on possible cartel activity are serious allegations. The question is also how one of the governments will review these issues, and if the Council of State will in some way take political initiative to also discuss these issues with Russian colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e436	I think it's important here not to mix the cards. We have a Norwegian competition authority that is close to this case, which is looking at and that is to make sure that nothing is going on irregularly on the Norwegian side. As far as the internal situation in Russia is concerned, we have faith that the Russian authorities will intervene. They are also interested in making the export of fish work. This is also a matter on which we focus in the government, and which will be addressed in the context of our political contact with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e443	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e446	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. I can hardly think of anything more meaningful to engage in politics in this hundred years of ours than climate and environmental issues. The government has already had as an important input to not prioritizing it in the big context. It's not part of the eight main areas that they've prioritised. They are systematically absent from Erna Solberg in large contexts. In the light of what I heard, Siv Jensen said instead that she could not agree that there is a difference between the Progress Party in the opposition and the position, it is worth noting that the Progress Party now controls the majority of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions through Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Tord Lien, Per-Willy Amundsen and not least Siv Jensen, which is now one of Norway's most important climate politicians. She has a lot of tools. One of them is the state pension fund abroad, popularly called the oil fund. There is now a wide international debate on the phenomenon called carbon bubble – that if we are to solve the climate problem, at least two thirds of the world’s fossil resources must be underground. At the same time, it is foreseen for the investments in the companies that they will be collected. This is, of course, a highly topical theme for Norway. There are few themes that I as the State Council were asked about as often, perhaps alongside the rainforest effort, as the Norwegian fund. We have the ethical guidelines, where we can choose to be a leader and subtract from fossil resources if we want, but also for economic reasons. We have a double exposure as a large producer together with heavy interests through the pension fund. So I noticed that this proposal from SV and others has been strongly rejected. State Secretary Bjørnestad said at NRK: I see this as the worst form of double morality – not a normal double morality, but the worst form of double morality. My question to Siv Jensen is: Is it really relevant for the government to look at changes in the SPU to reduce exposure to fossil energy? And does she agree that Norway has a special responsibility because of our role as a petroleum producer to contribute to less fossil energy internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e459	Let me first say that I believe it is directly wrong when Bård Vegar Solhjell claims that this government does not have a climate and environmental focus. We have. We have ambitions to pursue offensive and targeted environmental and climate policies. Although it is not defined as one of the eight main areas of activity, it goes like a red thread through each of the eight main areas of activity and the government platform. So the question of state pension funds abroad. We had a good debate in Stortinget based on a representative proposal from SV before Christmas, where part of these questions were discussed. I then said that we would come back to all these questions in connection with the message we are going to present to the Storting during the spring. There we're going to go through a lot of different issues. We are going to get rid of the issues raised by the Strategy Council, which has worked on issues of extraction and organisation, and looked at the continuation and further development of ethical issues related to the management of the Fund. And as I also announced before Christmas, we will of course follow up and give some answers to at least some of the questions that were the subject of debate in the Storting before Christmas. We have noticed that there are different views on this issue from Stortinget's side, but I would like to say, as I also said then, that some of the things that have been broadly anchored, and on which there has been a broad consensus in the Norwegian big business, is that that fund is unsuitable as both foreign policy and environmental policy. If this room wants to take decisions of an environmental nature, it must be done differently from frequently changing the management practices of the fund. It should primarily be a financial investor. Then we have to make sure that we have a long-term and predictable management of the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e469	As I said in my question, there are good reasons, including economic, for Norway to look at our exposure and our risk by being heavily involved in the world's fossil energy. In addition, we have ethical guidelines, where we have chosen to go in or withdraw on an ethical basis. We see it as long-term unwise to invest in tobacco. It may be money to spend on it in the short term, but the fund has to invest with levity as a perspective. The climate is in the same category. However, I choose to interpret the answer relatively positively, and sees it as if the Minister of Finance is opening up to assess whether we should make changes to our investments in fossil energy. So I'm going to follow up with a question, because she is totally sick away from my question about her herself and the Progress Party thinks that Norway has a special responsibility. In the past, how many times has it been asked about how it looks at climate itself, and now it is one of Norway's most important climate politicians. Does Siv Jensen agree that there are man-made climate change and that climate change is mainly man-made?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e476	I want to repeat what I said instead, namely that this government has a rather offensive attitude towards environmental and climate policy, and we have ambitions to meet with the means we are launching, not least to get to much of what the previous government was talking about, but was very far from actually realizing. Then we have to go through all the tools, look at them systematically and see if they're arranged in such a way that they actually meet the goal they're supposed to meet. Then I have also recorded that there is a debate about the so-called 'carbon bubble'. It is, among other things, Incited by Zero, but it's not like there's a uniform view of this question. A lot of leading economists have the very opposite view of what Zero has launched, but I record that there is a debate going on. What I want to do in connection with the announcement to Stortinget is talk about some of these issues. I have not said now that I am opening to make changes. What I'm saying is we're going to explain these questions when we come up with the message for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e483	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e486	Now I hope we can get a very concrete answer. The Minister of Finance said that ‘the government has a rather offensive attitude towards environmental and climate policy’. If you believe in the overwhelming majority of researchers, who believe that man-made climate change is a major threat to the world, then offensive climate policy is a good investment. It costs money, but it's expenditure on the acquisition of income, and it's absolutely urgent to save the world. If you don't believe that man-made climate change is a problem or an even non-believer in man-made climate change at all, it will be a meaningless resource use. Now Siv Jensen is one of the country's most important climate politicians. I want a very clear answer. Does the Minister of Finance believe in man-made climate change and does she agree that they pose a great risk and a problem for the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e495	The main question related to the State pension fund abroad and its application. Siv Jensen can choose whether she will respond or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e498	I have had this debate with SV in the past – even before I became the Council of State – and I have too far confirmed that the Progress Party acknowledges that people are involved in influencing this. That discussion must be about, isn't that the track. It is about what measures and measures we need to take to achieve targets. That's the much more interesting debate about this. I record that after eight years of red-green government, one was quite far from achieving the goal. There were challenges in delivering in many important areas. This government has said that it wants to go through all the instruments of climate and environmental policy, because we believe it is possible to set this up in a more offensive and more targeted way. We're going to do that, and we're going to get back to it to the Storing in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e505	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e508	It's true, as the Minister of Finance says, we had a good debate on this before Christmas, and I assume that the Minister of Finance will take with him what was the mood in Stortinget. We also get a new debate more specifically about the relationship with coal, and I think she will notice that there is a majority of the Stortinget who have positions here, which the government must reflect on in its work. Then I just want to confirm that it is at least the Workers' Party's clear view that from this room you should not conduct detailed investments for the State pension fund abroad. We need integrity, long-termity and predictability. But Norway is a democracy, and unlike in some other countries with large funds, the fund is shaped a little by what the attitudes are like in our society. So, among other things, we have taken the decision not to invest in tobacco, and the government statement also states that there should be a higher profile and commitment to renewable energy. It's exciting to follow up on it. But when we had a debate here in Stortinget before Christmas, the spokesman of the Progress Party – my colleague Hagesetter – said that getting out of tobacco was stupid, because others had only bought those shares. Then I asked the finance minister, does she agree with the decision we made, not to invest in tobacco? And I repeat the question now because three questions were not useful until Christmas: Does she agree with the decision we then made that the state pension fund abroad does not invest in tobacco?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e515	That decision is, and if the government were to recommend changes to it, we would notify it appropriately to the Stortinget. I have noticed, as Gahr Støre also says, the signals that have come from the Stortinget, among others. linked to coal. This means that the government will need to adequately address the issue in the context of the announcement coming to Stortinget. There are many important questions, and we are also going to give a broad review of the recommendations of the Strategy Council. We're going to give a review of the issues we've discussed ourselves in the government platform, such as: is about renewable energy. There are many important, big and heavy issues that will be addressed, but I am very pleased that Gahr Støre is so clear that you need to have a predictable and long-term management horizon for the fund. It has served us well. That's why we can't make sudden changes after daily political engagements from the Storting. We have to think carefully about what we're doing, and that's what the Storting has done all these years, and I hope we keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e522	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e525	It's interesting when SV asks about SPU and investments, because the red-green parties voted against the Christian People's Party and the Left's proposal to consider cutting investment in coal. The Cooperation Agreement between the Left, Christian People's Party and the Government Parties states that the parties base their policies on the management responsibility and precautionary principle and will pursue offensive climate policies and strengthen climate reconciliation. The government was clear that climate would permeate all policy areas, and my question is: What action does the Council of State see to be taken in areas for which the Council of State is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e533	Now it is primarily the Environment and Climate Minister who has the primary responsibility for the concrete actions in this area, so I am absolutely sure that she will be able to respond appropriately to the Stortinget. The main question here is about the state pension fund abroad and what kind of management we're going to have of it in the future, and so I've told the Stortinget many times that we're going to appropriately mention a large number of these questions in the annual report to the Stortinget that comes to spring. I have recorded that there are many visions, both in terms of extractions of coal, and in terms of other debates on carbon issues. These are heavy, demanding questions, not least about the long-term management of the State pension fund abroad, of which we need to give a broad review in the communication we are making in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e542	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e545	When you're going to solve a problem, it's not surprising if those who are set to solve the problem think that the problem is a problem or that it's not a problem. I therefore believe it is important, when we are going to have a strategy for the state pension fund abroad, to know about the assessments that have been made, and as the Stortinget will then receive, are written and made by a finance minister who believes in man-made changes, or by a party leader and a finance minister who does not believe they are man-made. Therefore, I would like to repeat the question: does the Minister of Finance believe that climate change is man-made?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e552	So I have now answered that question a long time ago – also to the question of the state pension fund abroad. The main purpose of the administration of the State pension fund abroad is to ensure that we act in the long term and predictably because there are great values we manage on behalf of the Norwegian people. It has long been widely agreed that we should have that predictability in the management and that the fund should be a financial investor. Mixing a financial investment profile target with a wide range of policy considerations is demanding. For this reason, it has always been so clear that the main objective of the Fund is to be a financial investor, and that foreign policy, environmental policy and climate policy issues are to be adopted by the Storing in other ways and by using other instruments. But then I have registered that there is a great interest in mentioning these questions, not least because the State pension fund abroad is heavily within the companies covered by this. That's why we'll come back to this in an appropriate way to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e559	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e562	First, I'm not so concerned about what the council had to think, I'm concerned about what she's doing. Then I would like to congratulate her for being responsible for a budget that has a more offensive climate policy than what we have seen in the last eight years. It's even a slight change and start on a green tax change, as I mentioned earlier. But then to the state pension fund abroad: I would like to ask a little more precise, because the government council says she will mention the issue of whether the state pension fund abroad can be used more offensively to achieve climate goals. My question will be whether she will not only mention and problematize, but whether she will present a concrete proposal on how to set up the SPU so that one can make a positive contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e569	I think the representative of Elvesuen knows very well that if the government has ambitions to promote concrete proposals for changes, we will do so in the context of the announced communication to spring. It will be very little wise of me now to alert changed devices either one or the other direction, simply because it affects the fund, and I believe that it will be irresponsible. That is why we have warned – which is quite common – that in the annual report, we talk about all these issues widely and, in this case, propose changes if we think it is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e574	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e577	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The cod and whitefish industry are in focus for the time being. The conflict is about smoking's fishing quotas, worth between 1 billion. kr and 1.5 br. kr and the annual additional revenue from the catch, production and resale of the fish. Smoking in its time bought a number of fish farms with trawlers and quotas, under the condition that the fish was delivered to factories on land, thus securing jobs in Norwegian fishing waters and towns. In the spring of 2012, Norway Seafoods tried to gather the main weight of production on two plants – Båtsfjord in Finnmark and Stamsund in Nordland. These plans were abandoned because there was no political will to relax the universality of the group. Deceptive Minister for Fisheries, among others determined that if the production in Hammerfest was shut down, the quotas remained on the quay. Can the current Minister for Fisheries give the same assurance to the communities in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e588	I have, as the representative Ingrid Heggø, recorded that there is a process in Norway Seafoods that assesses what kind of future structure you think it is possible to have in terms of processing and delivery, and what the company believes is possible to create profitability around. This is perhaps one of the real challenges facing the Norwegian fishing industry in the future, how we are going to do with such a fantastic raw material to get further processing and create added value of this resource in Norway. When there are no simple answers to this, there is also – I was saying – an expression that the previous government reduced a public sample, the so-called Tveterås committee, which has been mandated to turn every stone to look at the whole value chain and how to set up the fishing industry in the future in order to continue to create safe and profitable jobs, and to get more value out of the large resources now in the sea outside of Norway. It's a blessing for us, but it's not a matter of course that we succeed in taking out those added values. This selection is currently working. The government has also been very clear in its platform that we have great ambitions for the Norwegian fishing industry to become such a new, heavy and clear foothold for Norway. We have a two-part economy, but it's no use having that ambition if we don't at the same time manage to build profitability into the industry. But I'm not ready today to say what's the fasit of the future. Now, this selection has to finish, and then I put my trust in the fact that there are good people from the industry, good people with economic competence and good people with insight into the legislation there, who will be able to give us good advice on how to play Norwegian fishing industry even stronger and better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e595	I couldn't capture the fact that the Council of State provided an assurance of universality, but what people are left with is what the Right Party and the Advance Party said in the election campaign. The Commissioner for Fisheries in the Right was very clear and said that universal service would be maintained, and the Progress Party was very clear. So I don't quite understand that the minister can't say it the same now when they're in position, as they said in opposition. But I've realized that they're discussing regional delivery. My question is, what is the size of this region? If it becomes a regional universal service obligation, is it North Norway that will be the delivery zone? In this case, does the Minister believe that universal service obligations will be met if they are delivered to North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e603	This is a question that we are now working on to look at what the future delivery code will look like. We are in close dialogue with industry, and we are concerned that we should create framework conditions around one of Norway's most important industries that will enable safe jobs to be created and be profitable in the future. Then I think it might be a bit much demanded that this government, after three and a half months of power, should answer the big questions that the previous government spent eight years trying not to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e608	There will be follow-up questions – first the representative Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e611	I record that at least we agree on the concerns of the whitefish industry, and that the Council of State is concerned about finding solutions to the profitability of the industry, but not necessarily specific. When the Council of State has that concern, it's amazing that the Solberg government in its budget actually cuts the marine value creation programme by 34 million. kr for this year. It is precisely money that is directed at the whitefish industry, it is about technology development, market work and quality treatment. So how does this fit in with what the Council of State is now saying in view of its concern, given what the industry actually needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e620	From day one – from my first day as a fisheries minister – I have had close and good dialogue with the industry. It must not surprise the previous government about the new government going any other way than the previous government did. We have a different policy in this area, we have signalled other types of bets, for example. in the course of this spring, we will present a live cod storage strategy that we know the industry is now mature to be able to implement. We have increased the quota to be used for live storage from 1000 tonnes to 4000 tonnes. We can stretch the season, we can get better pay for the fish – that’s good for the fishermen, that’s good for Norway. That's how we're going to try to think again and try to find other opportunities for an industry that currently has a lot more fish to carry on, but export statistics unfortunately show that we're not paid for the amazing commodity that the cod is. So here we have to think about new – research and innovation – and then we're going to... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e627	Time's up. Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e632	The issue of the activity and universality of Norway Seafoods is being dealt with in the Ministry of Fisheries, and it is now being wondered whether the government has made some pre-requisite commitments through previous opinions to allow Norway Seafoods to shut down more fishing establishments. Is this right, or can the Council of State reject such speculation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e639	There is no premeditation for anything. We have been selected on a government platform where we have said something about looking at all aspects of the industry, because we have some major challenges today. That's what we've said, and then we have to get back to the individual issues when there might be a theme in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e644	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e647	I understand that the Council of State believes that it is much required that one should be able to answer after three and a half months, but her party traps answered in the election campaign. They clearly replied that universal service was a firm commitment. They even overburdened the red-green representatives on it. It is remarkable if the council here in Stortinget cannot confirm it as her own party promised in North Norway during the election campaign. In the case of the whitefish bet, the first thing this government did when they got into the offices was to cut a dozen million dollars for just the whitefish industry. I understand that the Council of State is now concerned about the whitefish industry, and the question is: Will the tens of millions of dollars be put back into the budget – and put on – when the Council of State finally sees the seriousness of the whitefish industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e654	We have clear ambitions that we should have a fishing industry that is present on the coast, we should have a differentiated fleet to deliver its catch, and we should increase the processing rate even in Norway. Then we have to wait for this public sample that has been set down and that will give us good advice in this area. That would be pretty special, I think, if we now this spring had short-circuited many of the important questions that this sample is going to deal with. Here there's absolutely a need to do things, but now we're going to wait for the advice to come from the industry, and from the experts working on this. So I just want to say that there's still a lot of money available, and we've turned and twisted and made some other kind of priorities, so for example. the live storage of cod is an important new effort to do something and renew this part of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e661	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e665	I'm going to give the Council of State one last chance to answer if it's such that the Right Party and the Advance Party representatives were running around throughout the election campaign and fooling people that they were in favour of universal service. Is it not reasonable to say that this is for you? At the heart of the fact that there is going to be activities and jobs on land is that they actually get the raw material into the country. Then it's a little strange that the government says they should do a lot, but they won't consider this. They shall obtain the processing degree. If they are to achieve the level of processing, one must be concerned that some fish on land are being processed. The minister also said that you can't cut the delivery short. No, you can't, and that's why my question is: Does the Minister for Fisheries think that there is life for jobs on land without universal service?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e672	The President is a little uncertain as to whether ‘poor people’ is a parliamentary expression, but let it go.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e675	I don't see it being said that universal service is necessarily going to last just like it is today. What has been asked is whether to think of a region, whether to see if there are other opportunities that must also be present to get that profitability on the land, which is the major challenge for the Norwegian seafood industry today. So I just register that in the industry today it's working well, you think new, you make investments. There is a clear willingness to use the enormously valuable resource as, among other things. record cod quotas represent, so I don't see that threat. But I see that a industry like the fishing industry, which is becoming a major and even more important industry in Norway, must also be able to discuss its framework conditions and see if what was yesterday's solutions are tomorrow's solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e682	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e694	There are a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President refers to the overview distributed among the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture and Food who is directly responsible. Question 7, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Minister for Justice and Defence, is raised by the representative of Gina Knutson Barstad. Question 8, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment who is directing him. The question will be addressed by the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e711	This question, from the representative of Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture and Food who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e714	‘Tross policy objectives on the contrary continue to build up large-scale Norwegian food soils. With the approval of the Council of State just before Christmas, more of the country's best food soil will disappear with the expansion of IKEA in Vestby and new dwellings in Trondheim. However, unlike the government, IKEA has assumed that food production in the area should be maintained. Will the Council of State be inspired and committed to a zero vision for land losses in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e721	Soil protection issues have received considerable attention since the accession of the new government. Last week, the topic was an inter-pelling debate here in Stortinget, where the representative Hansson also took part. I am pleased that all the representatives who spoke were aware that the protection of food soils is important. At the same time, I also heard that most parties said that soil protection must be balanced against other societal considerations. Redisposal figures over time also show that cultivated land has been redisposaled regardless of who has been in government. In our political platform, this government clearly says that we want to take care of good food, but we want to balance it with the needs of the big society. The government is concerned about food production in Norway. We want not just to maintain, but to increase the production of food. The main objective of agricultural policy shall be cost-effective agricultural production. We must therefore take care of large and good soils. In addition, the areas must be used well. We have to ensure the highest possible production on the areas that we have at our disposal. I want to get the production up, among other things. by ensuring that more people own the land they run. However, I have to answer a clear no to the representative's specific and visionary questions. I want to be a real politician, and I don't have the ambition to go in for a zero vision for the loss of cultivated land in Norway. To this end, too many other societal considerations also need to be addressed. I think even the Greens would have trouble achieving their goals if we introduced a zero vision. How will the Green Party develop the railway infrastructure without redisposing cultivated land? And how are we going to build homes close to collective nodes, so people can leave the car standing, without taking any cultivated land at all? Even the construction of bicycle paths can be a challenge with the representative’s zero vision. In many municipalities, the cultivated land lies as a belt between the residential area and the land. What will the representative Hansson do if the choice is between building on land or building on the ground? And what if the choice is between cultivated land and a valuable wetland area with a lot of biodiversity? My answer to the soil protection challenge is that municipalities have to do an even better job. Therefore, as I said during the interpellation debate last week, I would like to take the initiative for a dialogue with the KS on how cultivated land can be better cared for in the municipal planning work. I am also convinced that larger and more robust municipalities are a wise solution. Large and good trade unions, which assess large areas as a whole, will be able to design good land plans to maintain cultivated land. A municipal reform is one of the most important measures to improve spatial planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e743	I thank the Council of State for the answer. My question was originally addressed to the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, because the government has chosen to transfer the administrative responsibility for the Planning and Building Act to the new Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, on the grounds that cross-sectoral overall planning is necessary to ensure both good climate and environmental solutions in the long term. It is nice that the Minister of Agriculture thrives on Stortinget, but I have to say that the Minister of Municipal Affairs and of Modernisation chooses the first opportunity not to answer the Storting on how the overall responsibility for soil protection will be exercised. Then it is interesting to ask the Minister of Agriculture: who in the government has the primary responsibility to take care of soil protection policy in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e754	It is quite clear that, as Minister of Agriculture, I have an important responsibility to send out signals to municipalities, counties and counties on how to deal with the reallocation of agricultural land. Then, of course, the municipal minister also has an important responsibility, since he is responsible for the planning and building law. There has been a lot of discussion about soil protection lately, and in this debate I have participated on behalf of the government. I believe that both I and the representative Hansson agree that soil protection is important – the representative Hansson is probably going a lot further than what I am doing. I believe that precisely social considerations must also be taken into account, but soil protection is important for this government. That is also why we both take initiatives towards KS and have started a process of a new municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e761	The Minister of Agriculture and the Government still stresses that not only will food care be taken of, but that the other needs of the big society will also be given priority. The sum of that, of course, is a recipe for continued loss of our best food soil. The average for many years has been 7,500 jobs in losses. There has been a target in the agricultural message that came in 2011–2012, Welcome to the table, with a target of 6,000 dekars. Even in the course of ten years, there are 60 000 deches, and proposals have been made here in the Grand Duchy on even lower targets. The question for the Minister of Agriculture will be: What is the government's specific target for further loss of food in Norway during the period it intends to sit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e768	Our objective is to keep the level of disposal as low as possible, but it needs to be balanced in the interests of society. And this government has a more offensive attitude to the development of roads, infrastructure and railways, for example, than the previous government had. This may, of course, mean that something more will be built up in that sector. But we have to keep everything we can in other areas. It is also important in this debate to bear in mind that more land is being cultivated in Norway than is left out of service — every single year. Much of the area that goes out of business isn't being built, but it goes out of operation because someone stops producing, someone stops beating, someone stops using the area. It is quite possible – if there was to be a situation where someone needed it – to take it up again, use it again. Then it's also important to say that the industry itself, agriculture, builds 1,500 operational buildings every year. That means that they have to redo agricultural land to get these buildings up, so having a zero vision is pretty unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e781	I would like to ask the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation the following questions: ‘Since 1965, four State investigations have been carried out, including: The 1997 Capital Committee concluded that changes in the county and municipal structure of the capital area are needed to better address tasks such as land planning, housing, industry, road and collective development, etc. The same has been true in several other press areas, such as the Stavanger region. To date, the discussion on municipal and county reform has been about small municipalities. Will the Council of State also address changes in metropolitan areas in its further work on the reform?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e790	Once the government has put a municipal reform on the agenda, this is based on an analysis of the challenges across the country. We have a diverse country, and the challenges we face, especially in the light of population trends and the expectations and demands that citizens want to have for a public service offer, will differ in different parts of the country. In some parts of the country, an important challenge will be the spread of agglomerations and urban areas across several municipalities. In this context, it is necessary to discuss and consider whether local boundaries prevent us from planning and organising a daily life for the inhabitants where housing, work and transport needs are seen in the context. Business is also dependent on functional municipalities. This means that we also need to look at whether available resources are being used in the most efficient way possible. So that's why the answer to the representative Jan Bøhler's question is yes. I have now set up an expert committee to go through and propose criteria for a good municipal classification. In this work, it will be taken into account that we have municipalities with different challenges and different assumptions in order to perform all functions in a good way. This expert committee shall deliver its first interim report on 24 March, so that the Ministry can take this into account in its work on the notification part of the municipal proposal, presented in May. I would like to present here the framework for the community reform. Let me also add that for the last two days I have been on a tour in Troms and in the mountain area, where we have just seen the differences between the municipalities and what challenges you face. In some municipalities, there is a growing number of active people behind each pensioner, and there are clear challenges with regard to the environment of competences. The mountain area will experience strong growth, and there is a need to look at how to provide more housing and better infrastructure, and how to ensure good urban development as well. These two challenges are different, but both suggest that it is absolutely necessary to look at the municipal boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e801	I thank you for a positive answer – also for the simple answer yes along the way here. I think it will enrich the discussion about municipal forms a lot if those who are in the districts of the small municipalities see that we are also discussing other parts of the country – that it is not just the big ones who are going to take the little ones it is about. For the Labour Party, we have been in favour of a municipal and county reform in the district parties in Oslo and Akershus in this area. We also have that in our 2013-2017 Grand Election Programme. In the last major study on the metropolitan area, which was held in 1997, as mentioned above, the then group leader of the City Council of Right, Michael Tetzschner, now a big representative, and our financial bureau at the time in Oslo, Gro Balas, so this is a question that the big parties have been engaged for a long time. I want to ask you a little bit more specifically: do you also look at the design of incentives, because there will be different incentives needed in these metropolitan areas, versus what is needed in small municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e808	And the answer to that question is yes; we're looking at incentives. Let me just stress that the aim of this reform is to create robust municipalities that can provide the citizens with good services in the decades to come, and it is about strengthening local democracy. Both of these objectives are essential both for cities and urban areas and for the smaller municipalities. We are very clear on where we want, namely that we need robust municipalities that can provide good services to our citizens. We have created a room for local and regional leadership. I note that very many places in the country now there are rapporteurs who fill that room, and who have started both a debate and a process to take account of a local reform that is coming, because the challenges that both the representative sees, I see, and the local politicians see are not going to pass. A community reform will be implemented, and good dialogue will be important both centrally and between the central and local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e815	Thank you for the follow-up from the Council of State. There is only one growth in Oslo and Akershus of 20,000–25,000 people a year, which is more than that in what we call cities of the size around Norway. It is clear that it requires a great degree of decision-making. It requires ability to make the right choices in the coming years. We have seen that when it comes to solving major tasks such as public transport, the development of transport, common solutions there, such as the establishment of the company Ruter, it has taken up to 30 years – if you take this whole course – to develop the cooperation that is now. We also see when we form Oslopackak 3 – the Oslopackages are good initiatives for transport in the area – that there will be a deficit in democracy. A lot of compromises have to be made, and less decision-making power, less collective will when, for example, it is. relate to land-use planning, public transport, industrial development, etc. The supplementary question concerns the experience from Copenhagen and Stockholm [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e824	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e827	We are committed to listening to the experiences of different countries and regions. I'm very careful to say that we should follow one reform from one country, because no country is the same. There are differences between Norway and Denmark, not least in Norway’s geography and the diversity of our municipalities. That's why we're going to learn from others, but it's important that we start from Norwegian. For me, it is important to invite a local and regional leadership. As a rapporteur from Mr Valdres said to me, there is now the possibility of being 'on the eve', of taking part in the preparations for what is to happen. I fully agree that in the capital area, there are some key challenges, not least in terms of spatial planning, with a municipal structure that was created 50 years ago and that is not adapted to the challenges we face today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e838	‘1. on January 2015, the agreements for institution seats in the field of child protection expire. Through the budgetary procedure in Stortinget and a speech for the Ideal Children's Protection Forum by Secretary of State Maria Hoff Aanes, substantial changes to what has been the tender practice have been signalled by the fact that the ideal and non-commercial offers are no longer to be prioritised. Can the Council of State respond to the Government's intention to implement the bidding round and whether they will follow up the cooperation agreement with non-profits made by the Red-Green Government?»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e845	The main objective of the government in the area of child protection is to provide vulnerable children and young people with the best possible provision of child protection. The best interests of the child shall always be taken into account in the choice of child protection measures for each child. The most important thing is that children receive proper and good help, regardless of who delivers the measure. Non-profit organisations make an important contribution as providers of different services, not only in my field but also in the health and social field. Ideal organisations have a high level of competence and commitment and can contribute to new solutions to key welfare challenges. The government recognises that the non-profit sector is an important public sector partner in the production of health and social services for the population. We will therefore work towards continued good cooperation between the state and the non-profit sector. On 3 October 2012, the Government of Stoltenberg II concluded a cooperation agreement between the State and the non-profit sector, represented by the umbrella organisations. This government wants to have a good dialogue with the non-profit sector to discuss key issues and framework conditions related to the provision of health and social services. The Government has therefore initiated work between the departments concerned in order to clarify the further management of this Agreement. The children’s youth and family budget, Bufetat, is currently responsible for providing institutional facilities tailored to individual needs. I want to say that in Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013, which was adopted at Stortinget in spring, it has also been said that municipalities should have a much greater responsibility for action against children. The budget must therefore ensure that all children who need it receive an adequate institutional offer. About half of the institutional measures are currently provided by private actors, i.e. NPISHs and other private entities are already key actors in delivering good quality child protection measures. I recognise that NPISHs have a long and valuable experience in helping vulnerable children, but we experience that other private actors are also doing a very good job to help us with the children who need it. The government believes that the most important thing is for vulnerable children to be provided with the necessary help, regardless of who delivers the measure. I want to look at how we organise child protection in the best possible way, so that we can achieve that primary goal. Both the quality of the service provision and the institution's ability to meet the basic needs of users are important prerequisites of today's offer and shall remain in force in the future. We must first and foremost take into account the needs of children, and it is the best of the child that is to be based on the work of child-restraint children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e862	I thank the Council of State for the answer. One thing we agree on is that it's the best of the child that has to be the most important thing, because this is about kids and the most vulnerable of them. However, the signals given are more uncertain and more uncertain for both young people and employees, when the government and government parties say that all available capacity should be used. The answer shows that competition and private commercial operators are more important to take care of than good public ideal offers – and with a cooperation agreement that has worked well. Many non-profit actors are now afraid of the future, and with good reason. Safe employees provide safe children. Now it's added to uncertainty. The cooperation agreement was a tool for predictability. I record what the Council of State says, but how does the Council of State now follow this up in order to provide safe conditions for those of our children who are exposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e867	The signals I've given are clear that it's always the best thing for the child to count that we're going to have the right offers for the child whenever the child needs it. Then I have said quite clearly that we are going to go in and look at the agreement that is already there. There are signals that are on the government platform, and that I and more in the government have given, and this is not just this sector. But when I meet with non-profit actors, what we also demand is predictability and long-termity, and the agreements they have had in recent years have been agreements that only apply for two years, and then there has been an extension of one and one year at a time. It does not create long-termity and predictability. That's why the government's important task here is to have good agreements with the non-profit sector, but also to take advantage of and have good agreements with the commercial players, because they are also important contributors to the important work we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e872	Thank you again for your answer. The government parties clearly stated in the budget position for 2014 that all satisfactory child protection capacity was to be used, but no more money was involved. So competition takes place on quality and price, as the Council of State says, and the easiest distinction is the price. In this case, and in many others, it involves the subject of wages and pensions and the conditions of employees. How will the Council of State ensure that the current bidding round respects the conditions of its employees so that they are equivalent and comparable and that they are required to do so? Will the Council of State require this when this is being tendered now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e877	That's exactly what we're doing. When we have a tender, just as the previous government had, we write the tender documents, we write what we have, and specify what we want in those tenders, not least in terms of price. So it's going to be taken care of in a good way, so that we have a good offer for the kids who need it. Then I would like to say that it is amazing that the Workers' Party is standing here and addressing this topic, because it is not that there have been no tendering and commercial operators during the previous government. Rather, on the contrary, there has never been as much use on commercial actors in the field of child protection as under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e888	‘Auxiliaries are an important part of the municipal health and care services and the emergency medical chain. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are tabling a proposal in June 2013 for a National Action Plan for Medical Watch, cf. Document 8:76 S [[2012-2013]] Will the Council of State present an action plan for the medical profession, or has the Council of State changed its mind since June 2013?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e895	I agree with the representative Toppe that medical care is a very important part of the municipal health and care services and the emergency medical chain. I have not changed my mind after we assumed the government responsibility. I still believe that we need an overall approach to further developing medical care. Following the examination of the proposal of the Progress Party on a National Medical Action Plan by the Stortinget in June 2013, a public body has been set up to carry out an overall system for the management of acute diseases and non-hospital injuries. I have changed and clarified the mandate of this panel. I have made clarifications here because I am busy starting work on more national quality assurance in the medical care system. I have also had a meeting with the members of the committee to highlight the importance of this work. In my mandate, I have stated that a ‘must assess the need to draw up a proposal for a national medical certificate’. The attitude of the sample will provide a basis for concluding on the question of whether I will present an overall plan to strengthen the medical care system. In the meantime, I will continue to work to improve the quality of the medical guard. In 2014 it is set at 50 million. to enhance the quality and competence of medical professionals. The money will include: to follow up on the changes in the emergency medical prescription which are currently being revised. Proposal for a new regulation is scheduled to be sent to the hearing now in spring. I am also aiming to introduce a national telephone number to the local medical centre during 2014. The law must be accessible by the same telephone number wherever you are located in the country. The joint medical watch number is one of several proposals in the action plan of the National Centre of Competence in Medical Medicine. In a short time, I will make a new proposal to ensure that the necessary patient information can follow the patient through the course of treatment. We propose a simpler sharing of information between health institutions in order to improve the availability of health information for treatment providers. This is also an important measure to improve the quality of medical care services and a question addressed by the National Centre of Competence in Medical Medicine. I look forward to the public sample investigation, and will quickly conclude on how to follow up their recommendations, but will, of course, also implement in the course of the process important measures to strengthen the medical care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e914	The public selection the Council of State refers to has two years, after what I have read, to make an adjustment. If the Council of State is to follow this up after that again, nothing will happen to the medical watch during this period of ageing, and it is in stark contrast to the seriousness of the case of the medical officers that Council of State Höie in June of this year. He criticized the then-coming Minister of Health for making a picture of the serious situation. And the current Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, then called for both a lift of competence, ear-marked resources and an independent commission to examine the state of medical care in Norway. My question is, what my government council has been so much better now than it was in June that the state council now has much better time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e919	I would like to believe that also the representative Toppe, who obviously agrees more with this government than the previous government on this issue – it has in a way become a tradition in these question hours that the representative Toppe raises questions that the Central Party must have obviously lost in the previous government – wants to continue during this government. That's good. I am pleased that the representative Toppe is impatient about things that we agree on. But I also expect Toppe to believe that it is a good idea to establish a good order. It is therefore the mandate for the sample to be amended, in order to provide a good basis for decision-making. But then I also explained in my answer that things should not be silent even if a sample has been asked to investigate national claims. It is also possible to improve quality, and I presented a number of measures in my previous response.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e926	This is not about what kind of things the Center Party has lost in government. I am fundamentally concerned with the medical profession, and I thought it should be pointed out when the Council of State departs from recent proposals that he joined in the opposition. I have another question. In the same case in the Stortinget in June, there was a minority with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party to return to the primary greeting. It was then decided that the specialist services should be responsible for it. I wonder if this is also an area where the Council of State goes back to what he promised in opposition, and whether he is now continuing the infringement reception as a responsibility assigned to the specialist services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e933	First of all, it's not exactly what the representative Toppe says, that we've gone back on something that we said before the election. On the contrary, we are now in the process of implementing what we said before the elections. The Right and Advance Party proposed in Stortinget, which the representative Toppe at the time voted against, but obviously now is in favour, was that we should have a national medical action plan. The Right Party and the Advance Party did not submit a completed national action plan for medical care. We proposed that a national medical action plan should be drawn up. That mission has now been given to a public sample, a public sample that the government that Toppe supported, put down without giving the sample this task, even if the sample was to work on the emergency medical chain. So the representative Toppe should sing both to work and from work every day because it has been a government change, so Toppe's policy is now being implemented and not just talked about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e942	‘In the context of the treatment of the State budget, the government was unable to answer various questions about the so-called ‘free treatment’ system. In the hospital speech of the Council of State, he highlighted the ‘reform’ as one of his main initiatives and suggested a concrete timetable. What is the government’s actual timetable for phase-in of such a scheme, what legislative changes will the Grand Duchy have to adopt, when the system is in place for drug/psychological health protection and somatics, and how should it be financed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e949	The free choice of treatment, as Micasen's representative says, is an important step for the government in creating a healthcare service that puts the patient in the centre and will ensure that more people receive faster treatment. It is an ambitious reform and the government is doing well in its work on the reform. Health regions have already been asked to use private capacity to reduce waiting times and have also received earmarked funds for this. Free treatment choices should be made first in the field of drugs and mental health protection. The goal is, as I said in my hospital speech, that this should start in 2015. Experience shall contribute to the development of free treatment choices in the other areas of specialist healthcare. This will have to lead to changes in the law, including: in the Patient and User Rights Act. Legislative proposals will be sent to the consultation this year and relevant information will, of course, also be provided to the Stortinget. I have also talked a lot about financing the plan in the past. The principle is simple: persons entitled to treatment from the public must also have the opportunity to receive treatment funded by the public. The precise details will also be provided to the Stortinget as the scheme is phased in, in relation to the necessary legislative proposals that the scheme will require, but also the economic consequences of the annual budgetary work of the government and beyond in the Stortinget. I understand that the representative Micaelsen is impatient to get this system in place, which will be a great pleasure for Norwegian patients. So am I. But I can assure the representative that we have a very good pace in implementing this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e960	I thank you for your answer. The challenge is when the Council of State in the public debate refers to a reform while at the same time not being able to answer entirely fundamental questions when asked by the Stortinge. That is why I address the matter. He himself has called for a debate on that. In that case, the Storting and the public must also know what this reform is going to contain. For example, a significant question is:Should the new reform have what we call volume constraints? It is technically sound, but in principle it means that all those entitled to treatment, as the Council of State now says, should be able to automatically recover their treatment costs from private clinics, or whether it should be funded within a framework. If that's the last thing, as it is today, there will still be some people who will have to wait at some point with Höie's new reform. Can the Council of States now guarantee that he will answer questions raised by the Storting about the fundamental elements of the reform he advertises in the public debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e965	This debate and this question are, in effect, a repetition of the election campaign. Many of these questions have also been answered late and early. But the concrete investigations into a major and important reform will, of course, provide the Stortinget with good information on whether the Stortinget should take a decision on the matter. The scheme will, once fully implemented, imply that patients who have been granted the right to study or treatment by virtue of having been assessed in the public system shall have the possibility of taking over the right of private, authorised operators and having the treatment carried out at a price fixed by the public sector by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e970	Then I wonder what this will cost, because the Council of State is now quite specific that it applies to all those who have been entitled to treatment, who are either to be treated in public hospitals, or to take with them the right to private, if necessary, commercial clinics. I am very much in favour of patients waiting for more rapid treatment, but it has to happen in a way that we know takes care of the essence of what is best in Norway: that we have an equivalent public-funded healthcare service, which provides an equivalent quality offer across the country. When the Council of State is so precise in the Storting and also in the public debate, it must be a reasonable demand that the Storting should know, not exactly, but an estimate of how much this will cost. So I ask again, how much will this cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e977	As a rule, the government will investigate the economic and administrative consequences of the schemes before promoting them for the Stortinget. Then the mica will also get an answer to that question. But I can reassure the Mica that the government is working on addressing these questions. The question, if I had had the opportunity to return one, would be whether the Workers' Party believes that patients who have been entitled to treatment on public account should not receive that treatment. Because that must be the answer if the Micasen is concerned about the costs. Alternatively, it must be that the Micasen believes that patients and society are saving money because patients wait for months for treatment to which they have already been entitled.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e988	The question of free treatment choices is very interesting and has many loose threads, so I will also ask a question related to it: ‘The Minister of Health has promised ‘free treatment’ starting in 2015. The representatives of Storting Bent Höie and Erna Solberg described such an arrangement in Innst. [[2010-2011]] 305 S, such as the individual patient being able to choose a healthcare provider where there is free capacity, whether private or public, regardless of whether the private care provider has an agreement with the public. Settlement afterwards takes place between the provider and the public at a fixed price. Is this still the definition of ‘free treatment’ by the Council of State, or will the scheme differ significantly from that?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e997	The basic idea behind free choice of treatment is quite simple: patients with a right to treatment paid by the public should be given the opportunity to comply with this right more quickly. I understand the impatience, which is why I am delighted to present the consultation draft for free treatment this year. However, the main direction is clear: we want to introduce a system that allows patients to receive faster treatment, so that waiting time decreases and quality increases. The public shall continue to be the gatekeeper of the specialist health service. The public hospitals shall be the support beam. The scheme shall not apply to emergency services, which constitute the majority of the activity of public hospitals. For patients entitled to treatment, the public should also provide an offer of treatment. Public hospitals shall cooperate well with private actors. Patients in areas covered by free treatment choices, who still experience a long waiting period, shall have the option of opting for private hospitals and open-ended treatment. These shall be private actors which have been approved by the public. This is fully in line with what has been said earlier. As I just replied to the representative, Ms Mikalsen, and as I would also say to the representative, Mr Knutsen, we have good governance and speed in preparing this reform, and we are well on track to design the system of free treatment choices. The schedule for this was presented in my hospital speech last week, and it is a schedule that I am now working to follow up. Then Stortinget will also receive more detailed information, as the work progresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1008	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I perceive that he confirmed that what has been said before still applies. That's what you've been thinking. But there's a lot of questions and lots of loose threads. The government has said that an authorisation system will be set up for private hospital drivers, and according to what the health minister said, when he was the head of the health committee, this should be an approval that exclusively assesses the professional competence and quality of the intended private measure. However, if the actors concerned have approved trainings, authorizations and a reasonable composition of professional staff, what is the point of stopping a private commercial establishment, if any, by the Ministry of Health? And what about the issues of EEA law and other aspects related to competition law when deciding whether to approve or not to approve, or when to set prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1017	This government is concerned that there should be a good and well-functioning approval system for individuals wishing to establish specialist health services in Norway. That is why we have stopped what the previous government was doing, namely to wind up today's approval system. That would normally be what the representative Knutsen refers to as ‘free establishment of private commercial operators with head offices in tax havens’. Everyone had the full opportunity to establish themselves in Norway without going through an approval system. That is why we chose to stop the work that the previous government had undertaken to wind up the approval system, and to keep the current approval system, while in this context we are also working on establishing a better, more dynamic and more comprehensive approval system in order to take into account more aspects than what the current approval system can take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1022	I feel that the Council of State does not answer the question. Distinguishing approval or continuing approval is not what is currently the subject. Thus, there is no possibility of volume limitation in the authorisation system that the government will have, and the challenge of providing sufficient health professionals goes across the boundaries of regional health businesses and works nationally. A re-establishment in e.g. the metropolitan region will have an impact on the possibility of recruiting in my part of the country, in Sogn and Fjordane or in More and Romesdal. I think this with free treatment options is unclear and difficult to understand in full. The right of establishment for commercial hospital drivers is free and, to the extent that it is introduced, the link between policy decisions and resource use in healthcare is to a large extent cut. In Denmark, treatment options have been abandoned because costs exploded. I then asked if one should have some sort of management of the resource use in this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1033	Now, the representative Knutsen is far from answering his own questions. Those answers are not in accordance with the answers the government intends to give in this case. We are now working on the establishment of both a free choice of treatment and an authorisation system. Once it has been fully investigated and developed, the representative Knutsen will receive answers to his questions, but there will probably be other answers than the answers that Knutsen himself gives. In the case of Denmark, it is not true that Denmark has had free treatment options, but it is true that the social democratic government in Denmark has tightened up patient rights. It follows a Nordic pattern: that social democratic parties always fight against the extension of patient rights and, when they are given the opportunity, tighten, while the Right and Advance Party in Norway, and our sister parties in the Nordic countries, are always fighting to strengthen patient rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1046	This question, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Minister of Justice and Defence, is raised by the representative of Gina Knutson Barstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1049	‘Robin Hood Huset in Bergen conducts counselling activities aimed at unemployed EEA citizens, with particular attention being paid to Romanian beggars. In the call for funds for humanitarian action aimed at EEA citizens coming to Norway to beg, it states that ‘pure advisory actions fall outside the grant scheme’, despite the high need for advice. Will the Council of State review this restriction, which prevents very important and good measures from being supported?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1056	In spring 2013, the government of Stoltenberg II launched a grant scheme of 10 million. Dr was allocated to humanitarian measures for EEA citizens who came to Norway to beg. The grant scheme constituted one of the elements of the so-called beggar package of the then government. The grant scheme was a pilot project with relatively broad award criteria. Among the applicants was the foundation Robin Hood Huset, who wanted funds to employ a person in the project position who advises against unemployed EEA immigrants, with a particular focus on Romanian beggars. The foundation was then allocated NOK 160 000 of the project funds. In its draft budget in the autumn of 2013, the Government of Stoltenberg II chose not to propose the continuation of the grant scheme. I do not know what assessments were behind that decision, but neither did the current government choose to prioritise this with new funds in the 2014 budget. However, during the further budgetary process, the size decided to grant funds to a grant scheme of 10 million. SEK was set aside for the implementation of projects in 2014. In the position of the Judicial Committee, the reference to the case is as follows: ‘The majority refers to Innst. 2 S where 10 million is granted. crowns for humanitarian actions to non-governmental organisations and relevant municipalities for overnight and sanitary services to arriving beggars, compared to the 2014 Yellow Book. [[2013-2014]] The Ministry of Justice and Defence should continue to be responsible for the detailed design of the grant scheme, but the majority assume that the funds are prioritised where there are most incoming beggars. The majority indicates that 10 million is proposed. crowns on cap. 440 heading 70 for that purpose.» The Ministry of Justice and Defence, in cooperation with the departments concerned, has established the award criteria of the scheme in accordance with the leadership of the Stortinge. The call for funds refers to the fact that the measures in question will include the establishment and operation of shower and toilet facilities and the provision of short, free or reasonable accommodation. Therefore, purely advisory measures do not fall within the scope of the grant scheme. I can mention that Robin Hood Huset has submitted an application for NOK 510,000 for advice in 2014. A number of other organisations want to start similar counselling projects, and there will be far less funding for overnight and sanitary services if it is also to include counselling services. The Ministry has therefore placed the decisive emphasis on the leadership of the Great Government, which is generally a wise approach on the part of any government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1074	There is a crisis and distress situation in Europe where many people desperately seek a better life. Many of them also come to Norway in search of this, and that is the good reason. However, the experience of e.g. Robin Hood's house also tells us that there's a lot of misinformation, a lot of people are fooling around here on the wrong premises, and they have wrong expectations about what they can achieve in the country. So the experience from Robin Hood House is that a reality orientation, an advice – sometimes it is advised to go home – is a good and important tool to get long-term solutions to these problems. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: does the Minister of Justice not see that it can be good crime prevention to give desperate people good advice in the situation they are in?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1083	I have no problem seeing it, and the measures for the Robin Hood House are certainly very good – in addition to the fact that there are a number of other organisations that want to build up similar offers. The challenge is that within this grant scheme there are no possibilities to apply for grants for advice, simply because we have been dealing with the leaders that the Storting has so clearly given. I want to repeat what I said in my previous answer, that this is an arrangement that the sitting government and the previous government thought there was no room for in 2014. However, during the budgetary procedure of the Grand Duchy, it was possible to do so. That is why it is essential for a government to follow the Storting's premise when these schemes are to be put into practice. This is what the Ministry has done, and there is no opening on the Stortings side to extend it, in addition to the two measures set out in the note, namely the opening of accommodation and sanitary facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1092	In today's online edition of the Bergens newspaper, you can read that, among other things. Storing representative Rotevatn has a different opinion from the Council of State on what that pot was intended to do. In the same article, it can also be read that Robin Hood Huset and others working on these issues on a daily basis highlight the counselling measures as at least as important as overnight accommodation — and then we should not diminish the importance of accommodation and sanitary conditions. So I would like to ask the Council of State once again: will he in the future assess whether to give priority to the provision of advice in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1099	We will evaluate all grant schemes for each and every financial year. Just as the Stoltenberg II government chose not to give priority to this scheme, so this government did not choose to do it in its time. That's why it's been important for us when we're about to implement what the Biggest has said, to follow what the Biggest has asked us to do. We have worked closely with all the other relevant departments to find a call for proposals that will fit best into that framework. Then, of course, this government will assess which actions are good and most targeted to achieve the policy objectives, and in this case we will return to them in the ordinary budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1110	This question, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment who directs him. The question will be addressed by the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1113	‘The phase-out of oil fires is an important climate action. Many public buildings still fire with oil. How will the government ensure that all public building phases out all oil firing by 2018, and how will the ban on fossil oil use in all buildings be implemented?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1120	By means of the climate agreement, it is agreed that fossil fuel oil as a base load — i.e. normal energy use when it is not detonated – must be phased out of all state buildings by 2018. The greenhouse gas emissions from fossil energy use in buildings represent 3-4 pst. of the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, construction is not one of the major emissions sectors, but it is a sector where alternatives to fossil energy are known and relatively easy to use. In order to meet the two-degree target, global emissions need to be reduced by 50-85 pst. in 2050 compared to 2000. Emissions reductions are then required in all sectors. The major state buildings are the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, which has State Buildings, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Knowledge, which have universities. All of these are familiar with the climate agreement and are responsible for phase-out of oil firing in their own buildings. Several state builders are already working systematically on phase-out of oil firing. For example, State Building has concrete plans for the conversion of oil-fired construction to renewable energy use. It is a local responsibility to manage municipal and county buildings. We must have a dialogue with the municipalities and county councils on how to phase out oil firing in municipal and county buildings. We need to map the extent of the oil firing and the cost of replacing it. Municipalities and county councils must make the necessary plans to achieve the objective. Although the use of oil for heating is on its way down, phase-out will not occur on its own. Full phase-out by 2018 requires systematic planning and investment in alternative energy carriers. In the climate agreement, the Storting asked the government to ban fossil oil firing in households and to baseload in other buildings in 2020. The government is now investigating how the ban can be set up and what consequences it will have. Before we can clarify what the ban will look like, there are many questions that need to be considered. This applies, inter alia, to: the laws in which the prohibition should be imposed and the means by which the prohibition is to be imposed. We also need an overview of what the ban will mean for security of supply for electricity. These are the questions we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1139	I'm glad the Council of State shares my concern. It is well known also in this room that SV is an impatient party. Now the representative Skei Grande reminded us earlier today not to let go of everything we have in our minds, into the public. It made me think of all these buried oil tanks we have around. In particular, wintertime is high season for the leakage of heating oils. We had three of them now in winter, in November – in Porsgrund, Mandal and Asker. In addition, we have had a larger discharge in Akerselva from Ullevål Hospital. Six out of ten municipalities lack an overview of their oil tanks. Can the Council of States say anything about the penalties imposed on those municipalities that do not comply with the requirements already in place to keep records of buried thoughts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1148	Now the question was how the phase out oil firing in public buildings, so I'm not prepared to answer the question now being asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1153	I was thinking about public buildings locally in the municipalities, not just state buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1158	The most important thing is that the state is going ahead and phased out firing with fossil oil in the state's buildings. Then we will have a close dialogue with the municipalities and county councils about how they can follow up on this as well. We intend to follow up on the leadership of the climate agreement at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1167	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘6. On 1 January, the Minister of Defence held his annual New Year speech in Oslo Military Society, where she referred to the Air Force, and said, ‘My position is that, where the assumptions have changed, we must consider the timelines and extreme cases also the conversion of decisions.’ What concrete changes to the adopted long-term defence plan are those that the Council of State sees as having to make within the Air Force, and could this in addition involve changes and content with regard to the establishment of Ørland as the main fighter aircraft base?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1176	First of all, I'm very pleased with the question. This is a theme that addresses Defence, local authorities and local populations, and it is a relatively large issue. Therefore, I would like to start by saying that the implementation of the long-term plan for 2013-2016 is well under way – in line with the decisions taken by Stortinget. As the representative of Hansen knows well, a continuous long-term planning is now being carried out, i.e. that adjustments are also possible if necessary. Should there be adjustments to the decisions taken by Stortinget, the government will, of course, return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner and propose such changes. But there is nothing per now that suggests that it should be necessary. So to the question related to Ørland, the decision on main fighter base in Ørland is firm. I've repeated that sometimes before, but I think it's important also to have it said this way in the Storting. There has been full agreement on this, and none of the assumptions relating to Ørland has changed since the decisions of June 2012. As the representative of Hansen is well-known – we have worked together on this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for four years – the entire long-term plan is a very big puzzle, and in particular what is associated with the Air Force. It's a big shift where the main focus of government is to keep the operational ability through the big shift we're now going into. I might be able to say a little bit about exactly what it looks like in the answer to the follow-up question. But doing things in the right order and pace, and having the right decisions, is going to be very important. Some assumptions have changed since June 2012, including: the technical take-off in Bodø has been faster and has involved more technicians than the previous government. I believe it would be quite irresponsible if you did not look at the possibility of adjustments on the basis of this. The previous government had to make some adjustments already in the summer of 2013 by extending part of the maintenance and QRAs in Bodø, because the technical take-off was so much larger. There was something the Storting joined in through discussions we had, among other things. in the Questionnaire and in some other contexts. The representative Hansen may also remember that in the budget debate before Christmas, I said that the government has now set in motion a great deal of work to review precisely these assumptions and any need for change. That work is well under way. We have not concluded on anything yet, but in our opinion, there is a need to look carefully at whether we are able to maintain the operational capability through demanding changes in the Air Force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1189	I want to thank the Minister of Defence for the answer. I fully agree with her that the operational capacity is important. I also agree with the Minister of Defense that it is important to spread as little uncertainty as possible about the decisions and am pleased with what she says about Ørland as the main fighter aircraft base. But I wonder a little about the follow-up to the decisions taken in connection with the long-term plan, especially in the case of Ørland in terms of air protection and based on where everything is planned, and also in the case of some other decisions that were not so widely agreed in the Stortinget, such as. advanced operation base at Evenes, the closure of Rygge Air Station, the closure of Mågerø and the transfer of the inspector-general to Retan. Will there be any changes we can expect regarding the decisions that were made? This is also of interest to many locally, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1198	That's the greatest part of it. There is no change in the question of air protection and basesets for Ørland. The other factors that are mentioned are things that we now have to consider. Let me just stress very clearly that on the government side there is no promise of a single rematch. On the contrary, we have said that these are not topics that we are dealing with, but we are looking into assessments of how we can best ensure the operational capability through the transformation that is to be carried out. Let me just give you a little picture of the complexity of the conversion: we're going to phase out F-16, phase in F-35, put down bases and create bases. At the same time, we're going to move the management of the Air Force. Therefore, it is so important to look closely at whether the assumptions made in the long-term plan are still valid, whether or not something has changed, and whether or not we need to make adjustments to maintain the operational capacity throughout this transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1205	I thank you again for the answer, but I wonder if the Minister of Defence may be a little more specific in what areas concrete assessments need to be made, and whether she can also be a little more specific where the assumptions have changed, because this is of great importance to us in the Grand Duchy. I agree with the Council of State that this is a complex area, and it is a demanding job the Council of State has. I also wonder if she can say when we in Stortinget can expect to get some clarity on it, and when she is going to have enough information to be able to go on to the Stortinget and inform about what will happen, because that is what we are curious about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1212	I hope to make decisions on this as soon as possible. There's a good chance that there won't be any change in any of the questions here, but there's a chance that it might be. Let me give you two examples. The relocation of the air defence management was already characterised as a rather demanding project in the context of the long-term review of the plan. You have to move the first part, approx. 24 persons, by the end of this year and the rest by the end of 2016. It's going to happen at the same time as laying down and establishing new bases. This is one of the things we're actually looking at – how the timeline should be. The second is this with the technician's takeoff. There the previous government has already added that the QRA in Bodø must be there longer than what was originally planned. It is also one of the things we are now looking at — whether there is enough action to ensure the operational capacity of this transition. Then I hope and believe that soon there will be recommendations to me, and that we can conclude on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1223	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-15.ana.ud1103e1236	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
