ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e72	The representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and Eirin Sund, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Finnmark State: Runar Seestad For Oslo: Guri Melby For the counties of Troms: Sigmund Steinnes For Nord-Trøndelag counties: Jorid Holstad Nordmelan For South-Trundellag County: Gunn Elin Flakne A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Jørgen Bekkevold on leave from 6 May to 9 May to take part in preparatory visits to the election observation with the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to Ukraine from the representative of Mr Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on care leave from 6 May to 18 May from the Progress Party Group on Per Sandberg leave in days 6 and 7 May to take part in the Nordic management course on social security and preparedness, on the Hurtigruten from the Workers' Party Group on welfare leave for the representative Else-May Botten on days 6 and 7 May from the representative of Mr Solvency Sundbø Abrahamsen on health leave in days 6 and 7 May from the Workers' Party Group on study leave for the representative Anette Trettebergstuen on Tuesday 6 May. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the More and Romesdal counties, Tove-Lise Torve, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinget on 6 and 7 May under the leave of the representative Else-May Botten, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen May 6th For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Eva Vinje Aurdal 6-7. May For Oslo: Ingunn Gjerstad 6–15. May For Telemark County: Geir Elsebutangen 6.–7. ==References====External links== May For South Trondelag County: Little Harriet Sandaune 6.–7. May
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e180	Lasse Juliussen, Eva Vinje Aurdal, Ingunn Gjerstad, Geir Elsebutangen, Hanne Thürmer and Lill Harriet Sandaune are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e190	The representative, Mr Breivik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e193	On behalf of the representatives of Pál Farstad, Iselin Nybø and myself, I have on this day, when the language is in the high seat, the joy of presenting a proposal for a representative with the precise, concise title ‘on imposing judgement in the enforcement of a breach of the rules in the form of completion where there is no personal gain’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e198	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after consideration of case No. 1, and then accumulated voting following the examination of the case No. 2-8 at the end of today's meeting. – No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal, which is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e218	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and distributed as follows: The President 10 minutes, the Labour Party 30 minutes, the Right 30 minutes, the Advance Party 30 minutes, the Christian People's Party 20 minutes, the Central Party 20 minutes, the Left 20 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 20 minutes and the Green Party 20 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to seven lines of response to the main speakers of the parties within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e227	Today is a historic day. The Storting will today adopt a linguistic modernisation of the Norwegian Constitution in our two similar writing languages, book goals and new Norwegian. This is a very important marking from Stortinget at the 200th anniversary of our Constitution. The Constitution is the highest ranked law in the Kingdom of Norway. The Constitution is the basis of our rule of the people. Today's language form makes the content of the Constitution difficult to understand for today's readers. This harmonises very poorly with the role of the Constitution as the basis for our rule of law. The language of the law was through a careful revision in 1903. Since then, the Constitution has not been subject to any complete linguistic renewal. In the meantime, Norwegian languages have evolved a lot. It is therefore very gratifying that a broad majority of the Grand Duchy today will strengthen our rule of people by making the Constitution more accessible to the many. With a comprehensive linguistic modernisation, the Constitution will be read and understood by far more Norwegian citizens. Such linguistic modernisation of the Constitution is a democratization project for the benefit of our people's rule. On such a historic day, it is important to thank someone more than others, above all all all who has contributed to the debate, arguments and proposals for a comprehensive linguistic modernisation of the Constitution in committee, consultations for the Committee, as well as in the public debate. In addition, I would like to bring out one person in particular here today: former long-standing staging representative and vice president of Stortinget, Carl Ivar Hagen, who is also 70 years old today. I put myself in the line of the congratulations. Hagen worked on the Storting in-house to bring about a comprehensive linguistic renewal of the Constitution. The garden saw how important this was long before many others did. Hagen lacked support from several, including in the then presidency, but did not give in. Hagen promoted on 30 September 2008 only the constitutional proposals of Carl Ivar Hagen and Finn-Erik Vinje for a careful linguistic renewal of the Constitution. In addition to Hagen's vigorous efforts to bring about a linguistic renewal of the Constitution, I will present Professor Emeritus Finn-Erik Vinje. Vinje prepared the draft Constitutional Law on Language Renewal of the Constitution, which Hagen, on behalf of both, presented on 30 September 2008. Wine has been involved in the language and style of the Constitution for several years. On behalf of the Stortinget, Vinje published in 2002 the book ‘Freedom Palladium — In Language Enlightenment: About the Language of the Constitution’, a presentation of the History of the Basic Law and its grammar from 1814 to our day. In this book Vinje discusses how any linguistic renewal of the Constitution can take place. The efforts and work of Carl Ivar Hagen and Finn-Erik Vinje have been a major contributor to – if not crucial – the adoption by the Stortinget of a comprehensive linguistic modernisation of the Constitution. I believe that Hagen’s efforts have been crucial for the start of the process, so that in the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, the Storting can decide that the Norwegian Constitution – the foundation of our national government – will be available in our two similar Norwegian writing languages, bookkeeping and new Norwegian. As rapporteur, both for the previously classified document No. 12:16 for 2007-2008 – i.e. Carl Ivar Hagen’s draft constitution – cf. Inner. 276 S for 2011-2012 and for the three basic legislative proposals with the corresponding position, on which the Stortinget is today going to vote, I would like to thank both Carl Ivar Hagen and Finn-Erik Vinje very much for their hardy and expedient work on a linguistic renewal of the Constitution. Their work is highly valued and respected by many. Today, the Grand Duchy is going to deal with three draft constitutions: Draft Constitutional Law No. 21 tabled by Anders Anundsen, Per-Kristian Foss and Michael Tetzschner on the linguistic renewal of the Basic Law, referred to as Vinje's Bokmålsproposal, Basic Law No. 22 by Anders Anundsen and Per-Kristian Foss on a new version of the Constitution, referred to as the New Norse Version of the Graver Committee, and finally Draft Constitution No. 25 by Marit Nybakk, Martin Kolberg, Jette F. Christensen, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Per Olaf Lundteigen on the adoption of the Basic Law on Time Bookkeeping and Nynorsk, Document 12:25 for 2011–2012, referred to as the proposal of the Graver Committee. In the course of the previous discussion by the Storting on Constitutional Amendment No. 16 for 2007-2008, cf. Inner. 276 S for 2011-2012, an overall committee stated: ‘The Committee shares the view of the proposers that the 1903 Old-Modern Danish-Norwegian theme of the Constitution is difficult to read today. The Constitution should be modernised in a purely linguistic manner in order to become an even more living document in the Norwegian People’s Republic.’ However, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party opposed the adoption of Draft Constitutional Law No. 16 for 2007–08 as it was available. This majority felt that the Basic Law had to be found in both the two official writing languages of Norway, book goals and new Norwegian. Therefore, for this reason alone, these members rejected the proposal by Hagen and Vinje at the time. In their view, it was unreasonable that the Constitution only existed in one of the official target forms in Norway. Finn-Erik Vinje’s proposal for the linguistic renewal of the Constitution, adopted by Carl I. Hagen, was also not adopted by the Stortinget on 21 May 2012, but, in the context of the discussion of the Constitutional Law, 151 representatives took the following decisions: ‘The Grand Duchy is asking the Presidency to contribute to the development of up-to-date linguistic versions of the Basic Law in book goals and new Norwegian. This work shall take into account that the two versions shall be equal and that linguistic modernisation shall not change the reality of the old Constitution. [[somewhat]] The new versions must be available in order to be promoted as a draft constitution by 28 September 2012. The size should aim to adopt the two new editions in the 2014 anniversary year.’» As a result, on 31 May 2012, the Presidentship of the Storting appointed a selection for the preparation of new text versions of the Basic Law on temporal book goals and new Norwegian – the Basic Law Committee – chaired by Professor and Dean at the Legal Faculty of the University of Oslo, Hans Petter Graver. The selection also consisted of adviser Øystein Baardsgaard and adviser Bård Eskeland from the Language Council, first amanunensis Eirik Holmøyvik from the Legal Faculty, University of Bergen and Special Adviser Kyrre Grimstad, Stortinget's Administration. The Committee was given the following mandate: ‘The selection shall produce new, linguistically updated versions of the Basic Law in temporal and neo-Norwegian terms. The aim shall be to design the constitutional provisions in a language which is as comprehensible as possible in accordance with the applicable bookkeeping and neo-Norwegian spelling standards. The work shall be based on the fact that the two target versions of the Constitution are to be equal and have the same legal status. A general consideration shall be that the linguistic changes shall, as far as possible, affect the content of the opinions of the individual provisions and that the two language versions may be interpreted as least differently as possible. At the same time, the aim shall be to amend the constitutional provisions as little as possible in relation to the text in question. If it is not possible to rewrite a constitutional provision in a timely language without having implications for the content of the sentence or if the provision has to be reworded in order to correctly express the content of the sentence, the sample may produce alternative versions of the provision, possibly only for one of the target versions. In such cases, preferably at least one version should be densest possible up to the linguistic design of the original text and at least one version should give the most comprehensive expression of the content of the original text. The linguistic and legal assessments of the sample in such and other cases should be justified in the accompanying Presidency report. The committee shall also translate, to both objectives, draft constitutions which have already been tabled or submitted before the termination of the Stortinge negotiations in June of this year, or ensure the linguistic quality of such constitutional proposals in a modern language. In addition, the panel shall translate the basic legislative proposals drawn up by the Human Rights Committee in Document 16 into new Norwegian and linguistically quality assurance Human Rights Committee proposals drawn up on a timely basis. [[2011-2012]] The report of the Committee to the Presidency of the United Kingdom with full drafts of new, linguistically updated versions of the Constitution, and the translation and quality assurance of the Constitutional Drafts referred to, shall be submitted to the Presidency of the United Kingdom by Monday 17 September 2012 at the latest.’;» On 17 September 2012, the Constitutional Commission issued a report to the Presidentship of Stortinget, Document 19 for 2011–2012. The report contains modernized versions of the individual paragraphs of the Basic Law, in both book goals and new Norwegian. In line with the mandate of the sample, the sample has stressed that the new constitutional texts are to be formulated ‘in the most comprehensible language in accordance with the applicable spelling standards’, while ‘at the least affecting the content of the individual provisions’. Where it has proved difficult to reconcile these two guidelines, the sample has proposed alternative formulations of some provisions. The report gives a detailed account of the evaluations and recommendations of the sample on each of the constitutional paragraphs. In the report, the sample has also developed a single proposal for up-to-date text versions of the Basic Law, with one book destination text and one new Norwegian text. Why does the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environment Party argue and advise the Green Party in today's position that the Stortinge will adopt the Graver Committee's proposal for modernized and equivocated text versions of the Basic Law in bookcases and new Norwegian? As already mentioned, I am very pleased that the Stortinget will today adopt complete linguistic modernisation of the Constitution. I would like to argue here why the majority in the vote believes that the right and most forward-looking thing will be to adopt the Graver Committee's proposal on equivalent text versions of the Basic Law in book goals and new Norwegian. When the Grand Prix of the 200th anniversary of our Constitution adopts a comprehensive linguistic modernisation, we should use this opportunity to do what will be the right and most useful choice for many years to come. The size may choose to adopt both the Booklet version of the Wines, Constitutional Bill No. 21, and the New Norse Version of the Graver Committee, Constitutional Draft No. 22 but this will cause unnecessary practical and pedagogical problems. The Bookkeeping and New Norse versions of the Graver range are adapted to each other by ensuring that modernized concepts are as broad as possible. The language has been made simpler and more active compared to the original text's obsolete language and Vinje's book target version. The latter strictly does not represent a real modernisation of the constitutional language. The solution with Vinje's book target version and the New Norse version of the Graver range is not elegant. We get a new Norwegian version that is clearly more modern in both linguistic style and word and expression compared to the book destination version. One could easily find itself in a situation where the newnorm version actually becomes the primary language version in practical use, simply because the newnorm version will be more modern and easier to read and understand for politicians and other readers. This is only reason good enough for the Storting to adopt the Counter Selection book destination version in front of the Vinjes book destination version. I would also like to highlight two differences between the New Norse version of the Graver selection and the Book target version of Vinje: The Graver selection has constantly modernised outdated terms and expressions, while this is not done in the Vinje Book target version. Paragraph 25, first paragraph, of Vinje’s version, states: ‘The king has the highest command of the State’s land and sea power’. In the version of the Graver Committee, it says, ‘The King has the highest command of the defence power of the kingdom’. The first paragraph of Section 100 of Vinje’s version states: ‘Freedom of expression should take place’ and in the version of the Graver Committee: ‘Freedom of expression should be so’. The book target version of the wines will require more interpretation than the New Norse version of the Graver selection, which is updated to express today's legal content. A modernised book measure version from Vinje will be based on the same interpretation questions as the current constitutional text, while the new Norwegian version will be free of some of the interpretation problems arising from the obsolete language of the Constitution. For anyone other than specialists in legal terms and the Constitution, this difference could seem confusing and to some extent undermine the purpose of modernising the constitutional language, which is to make the Constitution most accessible to people. The Graver selection has simplified sentences in several paragraphs by dividing long and difficult sentences into several sentences. This is not in the Vinje language version. Thus, references to the two language versions will be different for some paragraphs. Let me use §64 as an example of this. In Vinje's book target version it reads as follows: ‘Selected representatives shall be provided with powers whose legality is assessed by the Stortinget.’ In the New Norwegian version of the Graver Committee, § 64 is divided into two sentences as the paragraph contains two different rules: ‘The mandates of the authorised representatives shall be conferred on them. The size shall determine whether the powers are lawful.’;» The following paragraphs have been simplified and broken down into the Counter Selection Bookkeeping and New Norwegian version compared to both the original text and the Vinje Bookkeeping version: Paragraph 6, first paragraph, is divided into two sentences in the newnorm version. The second paragraph of Section 13 is divided into two sentences in the new Norwegian version. § 21 has three sentences in the original text and four sentences in the new Norwegian version. § 26, second paragraph, has one sentence in the original text and two sentences in the new Norwegian version. § 28 has two sentences in the original text and three sentences in the new Norwegian version. Section 30, second paragraph, has put sentence in a different and more logical place in the newnorm version. § 55 has two sentences in the original text and three sentences in the new Norwegian version. Paragraph 57, fifth paragraph, has two sentences in the original text and three sentences in the new Norwegian version. § 64 is divided into two sentences in the newnorm version. § 74, second paragraph, is divided into two sentences in the new Norwegian version. If the Size adopts the Book target version of the Wine and the New Norse version of the Graver selection, references to the above provisions will be different for the two language versions. This must then be solved by means of a double reference. Such double references may be made in different ways, but should be standardised as quickly as possible. Ideally, the Constitutional Department of the Grand Duchy should publish a recommendation as soon as today's meeting on the Grand Duchy adopts the two different language versions. This should be done in a short and simple way. Last but equally important: By adopting the Bookkeeping version of the Wines and the New Norwegian version of the Graver Committee, the Basic Law’s writing language will not correspond to the linguistic versions in bookkeeping and new Norwegian of the Constitutional Drafts with material changes that the Storting will deal with later in spring and in the next two sessions. All constitutional proposals have been proposed as two alternatives, one in existing constitutional languages and one in bookkeeping and new Norwegian. In particular, these proposals concern major changes to the Fundamental Law's protection of human rights, to be addressed by the Storting next week. For these proposals, the book target version was developed by the Graver Committee. These proposals for new basic legislation are therefore only available in the modern language style of the Graver Committee, and thus different from Vinje's bookkeeping version. If the size now adopts Vinje's moderate book-keeping version, we will come to the situation that the book-keeping version of the Basic Law will contain provisions in two different language styles. The main part will be in Vinje's moderate language style, while the new provisions on human rights will be available in the more modern language style of the Graver Committee. This means that if the Storting adopts Vinje's book target version in front of the Graver selection's book target version, we will not only have unnecessary differences and practical challenges in relation to the more modern new Norwegian version, we will also get a book target text that is little forward-looking, and that will get new provisions written on a different and more modern book target during this big time period. In particular, it was to read the setting where the representatives from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left spoke out the following: ‘These members would point to the possibility of retaining the original language as a starting point, but would allow for gradual changes in contemporary Norwegian, highlighting as a significant advantage that the Constitution retains its value as a symbolic historical document without breaking the traditional lines backwards. At the same time, it will be possible to make the changes required for a new period of time.’ It's great to know that since the election, the committee members of these parties have changed their position and are now in favour of a comprehensive linguistic modernisation of the Constitution. I would encourage these members to vote for the Graver Committee's proposal for both the bookkeeping and the new Norse version. That's how we show the many that the Storting, when required, makes the right decisions for the future. Finally, I would like to encourage as much as possible to read the vote and also to listen carefully to today's debate in order to form a maritime basis for voting later today. The representatives of the centre party will vote for the equalised text versions of the Basic Law of the Graver Committee in our two equivalent writing languages, book goals and new Norwegian, and option 34 that the two basic texts of the Book and New Norwegian texts should be assimilated. It has been a great pleasure as case rapporteur to experience the willingness to meet for the linguistic modernisation of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway that I have experienced after the Committee gave its opinion on 29 April. Based on the position of the parties in the vote, there was no two-thirds majority in favour of any linguistic modernisation of the Constitution. Today, on the other hand, there is a large majority – perhaps unanimity – to get for the first time the Constitution in our equivalent writing language: neo-Norwegian. The founding law text of the Graver Committee in neo-Norwegian is in a modern, easy-to-understand language. The new version of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway will therefore be widely read by both bookkeeping and newcomers. Today, everything is at the heart of our choice of the modern, easy-to-understand version of the book, i.e. the Counter range. Today, each ombudswoman and the Ombudsman must make their own choice on the basis of what a seaman thinks strengthens our highest legal basis for democracy, the Constitution. In the view of the Centre Party, the Constitution shall not be a national clonedy. The Constitution is the basis of our rule of the people. The linguistic modernisation of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway is a democratization project for the benefit of our people's rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e339	Since 1814, the Constitution has been the basis for, and an important prerequisite for, the development of our democracy. The Constitution is, and must be, the law of the people for the future. But the Constitution is also a basic political document, which will lead society's development. It shall provide protection to individuals from the State and from any private interests. The Constitution must be respected by politicians and by the courts. It'll be today. It must and will also be in the future. That language is power is a recognised knowledge. The fact that the language of the Constitution is such that the whole population can easily read it and understand its provisions is essential for Norwegian democracy. In the context of the anniversary, the size has organised a competition among school students on the Basic Law. We have received many great contributions. I allow myself to read two verses from class 8 B at the lower level: We read the Kingdom of Norway's Constitution, are smart youth in fourteen years. But what do we see; it is difficult to understand; It's a language we don't understand. The language must be changed; So we get it. the thoughts and laws that characterize our country. Should the Constitution live, the next two hundred, must use a language that we young people can use. That's a lot to say. The Labour Party and I believe that the people have a right to understand the fundamental laws of their country. It's the Constitutional Responsibility of the Storting to see that this happens. This is the background and basis for the Workers' Party's clear commitment that our Constitution must now have a modern language, which makes it easily accessible to all, and for the Storting through this treatment to also decide that the Constitution should be available in new Norse. I want to say it this way: we owe it to that part of the population that has a new Norse as its main goal, and it will be a clear signal from the Storting that our two language forms are equivalent. Modern book goals and modern novelty, as the Labour Party has explained in the vote, will, in our opinion, be the best and right decision Stortinget can make today, as the case-law rapporteur, Mr Lundtegen, has already explained very well. It would also be completely in line with our linguistic tradition, as it has evolved over time, that our official writing language follows the development of the language, as we speak and write at all times. Of course, it is not the case that official documents today are written in the writing language of 1903. No, it follows the developments in the language that apply at all times. On this basis too – the linguistic basis – it is true that the Stortinget decides that the language of the Basic Law should be in the book goals of the past and the modern-day novelty. The treatment we have here in Stortinget today, as the rapporteur has already said, is the end point after a long preparation, a preparatory work in which the whole Stortinget has been involved over more than two majorization periods. At the initiative of the previous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the Committee, chaired by Professor and Dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Oslo, appointed Hans Petter Graver, to present proposals for two revised draft Constitutional Laws on Bookkeeping and New York. In the previous round, 151 representatives voted for this work to be done. In other words, the so-called Graver Committee was given a broad mandate. But of course, it's the way that the previous magnification doesn't bind the present. Nevertheless, I would say that it would be very remarkable, and I would also say unfortunate, if, after such preparation and such an initiative, even in the anniversary year, the Stortinget would not adopt any form of renewal of the language. It would also, in my opinion, give a completely wrong signal to our administration to stick to what I want to characterize as a formal and sometimes difficult language. It also creates a distance from the population and gives rise to too much doubt about the content and meaning of letters and documents. Such a signal should not be given by the Stortinget. Rightly, and with great weight, it is in connection with the 200th anniversary of the Constitution from many teams, and not least from our own president, underlined how forward-looking and modern owners were. I agree with the President's view of these points and his characteristics, also because those who were in Eidsvoll wrote the Constitution in the language of the day. If we want to represent the same value as the same culture as big ones, we should do the same thing. At Eidsvoll they put the people in the center. That the Constitution can be read by the coming generations will be our contribution to the development that was initiated at Eidsvoll in 1814, and we all, rightly, are so proud of. The resistances to linguistic renewal and modernisation claim that: ‘ The Constitution has a symbolic value and is a kind of national cloneodium.’ Furthermore, it states: [[...]] ‘Although the language of the Basic Law is aged, it is at the same time a particular and solemn language to which a tender feeling is attached.’ In addition, it says: ‘The Grunn Act is also a cultural historical document that is worthy of preservation.’ Of course, the Constitution of 1814 is a cultural historical document. Everyone in this Chamber agrees. But there is no contradiction between such a point of view that we can agree on and the need to modernise the language. I don't understand that contradiction. I am convinced that if the cultural historical value is to be preserved, the Constitution must come closer to the people. Then, and only then, can this magnificence claim that we are passing on the cultural-historical heritage of 1814 – or as Professor Eivind Smith has so aptly said: The Storting has the task of removing the historical veil that lies between the people and the Constitution. From the opponents of the renewal of the language, opinions have emerged that there is no strong desire to change the constitutional language, either from law-makers, academics or individuals. It's a trendy production, almost directly incorrect. The main impression is that the opponents and objections to linguistic renewal are very few. Opinions and opinions have emerged during the consultations carried out by the Committee, but with one exception, no concrete resistance has been expressed. The Language Council, which is the official body in these contexts, has concluded wholeheartedly that the Storting is modernising the language, and they support what is called the Graver setting. A few days ago, the Committee received a letter signed by 31 professors at the legal faculties of Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø and a Supreme Court judge, all of whom clearly stress the need for and the need for linguistic renewal. Of course, the meanings of these environments should be given weight, but they are by no means decisive. It is absolutely necessary that, on this occasion, the Storting keep the people’s desire and need for a readable language at the centre of their attention, and that is what must be the rationale. There is no contradiction between the wishes of the so-called academic environments and those of the people in this field. In its preparations, the Committee has also given serious consideration to the question of whether a new language could affect the interpretation of the provisions of the Basic Law. As can be clearly seen from the comments in the vote, the concern for legal complications resulting from linguistic modernisation is no longer present. None – and I stress none – have expressed their views in such a direction in the hearings, nor have there been any challenges to interpretation between a text on book targets and a text in new Norwegian. Experience from other countries with their two-language constitutions also clearly shows that this does not represent a problem. So to nenosic. As I said, the Labour Party is strongly concerned that the Constitution should also be adopted in neo-Norwegian terms. We've been doing that for a long time. And I'd like to say it with the words of the newcomer Ivar Aasen in 1836. He was only 22 years old when he used the Constitution and the rights it gave the citizens, when he formulated his program for the New Norse writing language. He said, Language is democracy. Only when people can read and understand what is written, and express themselves on a goal that they know at home, can meaningful word change take place. Only then will we be eligible citizens in our own country. The adoption of the Basic Law in neo-Norwegian terms, as the rapporteur said so well, will be a historic decision. It – and it alone – can be an anniversary year worth it. I believe that it is time to formalise the Basic Law in this way to equate book measures and new Norwegian. As the rapporteur has already said, the Constitutional majority of the Constitutional Law is not in modernized book goals and in new Norse – not for any of the changes I have talked about here. The Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, the SV and the Greens' Environment Party, have, throughout the process, been responsible for innovation both in book goals and in new Norwegian. This is still the main vision of the Workers' Party. But, as has been explained, – and I express joy around it – necessary discussions and discussions have taken place in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in the last few days. We know that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and parts of the Left, I would say, primarily want no fundamental changes to happen, as the setting exists – not on book goals and not that a new Norwegian version should be adopted. That is why I would like to express great joy and recognition to the Christian People's Party, who first took the initiative to find a solution by leaving their primary position, which is also a national meeting decision. Then I want to express recognition to the Progress Party, which has had a consistent view throughout this race, and who quickly agreed to participate in constructive conversations in order to achieve what I assume the Storting will do in two or three hours. The red-green parties then quickly left their primary positions, also to contribute to consensus. It is better to achieve what we achieve today than no change – of course it is! And then I say this: this agreement between these parties was reached before the weekend. We contacted the Left, and the Left showed will and had a constructive attitude. Then the truth is that the Right announced its point of view – at least to me – only yesterday, by Michael Tetzschner gave me a letter saying that they would also be able to vote for this. I'm saying this from Storting's pulpit because it's trying to create another impression of what's happened. An attempt was made to create the impression that this happened only when the Workers' Party finally left its radical proposal. It's a false production. We have always been committed to a solution and have been behind the preparations for many years and through the Committee's final reading in the final phase. This is said here because I know that the story of what's happening in these contexts has some meaning. But the most important thing is, of course, the voting that comes later today. Then I will finally express a thank you to Hans Petter Graver and his selection for all the work they have done. I also express my thanks to Finn-Erik Vinje – like what the rapporteur did – because he has done his job, also on behalf of the Stortinget, for many years and has worked on this. I also thank the representative Per Olaf Lundtegen for his work as rapporteur on the matter, who has been constructive and good at everyone's eyes. The working party's group will, in the context of what I have now said, as its primary position in today's voting vote for modern book goals and modern neo-Norwegian, that is, the Graver variant, as it is called in the internal language of this house. If that falls, we will stand by our agreement and vote in favour of modern neo-Norwegian and the moderate modernisation of book goals, the so-called Vinje version.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e421	What's fine is not to be repaired. This is apparently a message that is on military vehicles some places in our country. It should also be the motto for all amendments to the Constitution. It's actually also good according to the Constitution itself. It has an amending paragraph, § 112, which reads in summary: ‘If experience shows that any part of this Kingdom of Norway’s Constitution should be amended, such change must never conflict with the principles of this Constitution, but only with those of certain provisions, [[...]] [[...]] In this context, there is an indication of both the reasons for change and that when changes are made, there shall be minor changes to individual paragraphs. It must also be permitted to say that both anniversary celebration as a basis for the rewriting of the Constitution and horizontal revisions, in particular if they are of a substantive nature, would not be in the best conformity with the Constitution itself. For those who are here in the hall, I would like to draw a moment's attention to Oscar Wergeland's painting from the National Assembly at Eidsvoll in 1814. There are many people who think it's May 17th, but in reality it's a scene from May 11th, when the National Assembly adopts the amending paragraphs. So it's heavy historical leaders that more people should feel humble about when you're entering and making changes from a modern perspective. In connection with this constitutional anniversary, it has initiated renewal along two dimensions. It is the new constitutional language, and then it is a review of the human rights provisions, with the aim that the Constitution can also get a more visible and complete view of the rules that guarantee the freedoms of citizens and, at the same time, set limits on state power. In the debate, it has been very natural to focus on the language proposals of Hans Petter Graver and the group that did this investigation, and the proposal of Professor Finn Erik Vinje. But I believe it has been underestimated what linguistic innovations Document 16 from the Human Rights Committee, the so-called Wage Selection, would provide the basis for. [[2011-2012]] What has been the problem in this debate is that the language debate has been completely thrown into the debate without perhaps being fully involved in the linguistic effects of incorporating the obvious uncontroversial changes in the report of the Wage Committee. Therefore, I just want to refer to what would result from linguistic changes next week if we had not agreed today on another language theme. What we would have given up on then would be § 95, about the principle of equality, which is being reformed – thus the words «Protectories» and «Moratoriums» go out. In Section 96, the term ‘Punishment Question’, which in itself still exists as a concept, but which has a clear change of meaning, would have been reformulated and taken up in another paragraph. ‘Sports’ would disappear out of Section 98 — what would be a protection against the non-dependency of the judges. Paragraph 103 ‘Do not allow those who subsequently fall’ is deleted in its entirety. It is also worth noting that Kolberg's one reference to letters from the legal environment is just going to attack Section 103, which would in any case disappear in the night of history next week. More remarkable is the fact that the Workers' Party uses «Earth and Boslod» in Section 104 as late as in the committee setting as an example of how difficult it is to understand the Basic Law. The formula would disappear next week. I'm using these examples to show that the Right Group has approached these changes completely. So we've looked at both the changes in languages and the Human Rights Committee, what was new since some of us promoted Constitutional Amendment 21. Those who supported it were therefore Anders Anundsen, present here as State Council, Carl I. Hagen, in the diplomatic lodge, no longer as a representative, Per-Kristian Foss, as National Auditor, present today, and signed, as the only meeting representative for that proposal. I have always been in favour of that proposal, I am in favour of it, and of course I am pleased that the representatives of Lundtigen and Kolberg will also vote in favour of that proposal later today. What I could demand, was a perhaps a little more positive mention of that proposal when the same gentlemen themselves voted in favour of this personally and have also persuaded their party groups to say that these are good solutions. It is not easy to see why they would vote in favour of this proposal if you read the vote. I would then like to refer to the printed file that is in place today – for the first example of bosloddde on page 54, column 1, which is, in other words, to fight windmills or open doors – but it is also an interesting argument against proposal 21, which I myself share with my co-proposals, i.e. the Vinje proposal. There I would like to quote what is the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Environment Party The Greens' views in the committee's position on the proposal they are going to vote for later today, and that is the following: ‘This majority further suggests that the Constitutional Amendment 21 on the linguistic facelift of the Constitutional Law only to a very modest extent involves the division and simplification of the convoluted and difficult-to-reach sentences in today’s Constitution. [[2011-2012]] This majority considers, on the basis of the above examples, that constitutional proposal 21 does not imply the linguistic renewal of the Constitution that Norwegian citizens deserve during the anniversary of the Constitution. [[2011-2012]] A careful linguistic facial lifting of the Constitution as proposed in Constitutional Amendment 21 will only modestly make the Basic Law more accessible to current readers because there will still be many out-of-date, unprecise and difficult to access.’ [[2011-2012]] One can really say that this justification makes us even more comfortable by helping us to make the renewal happen precisely through this proposal and not through the proposal of the Graver Committee, which has taken that part of the presidency's mandate somewhat too seriously, namely that it should be as understandable as possible in the sense that we should have the least possible expertise to read the law. So you would have let go of a lot of shades that any good law text has to have in order to work for those who are going to use it, and not just for those who are going to orient themselves. Otherwise, I have to refer to what is now being proclaimed – that even the new Constitution in the version of Gravers should contain so much clarifying direct information that knowledge was no longer necessary. It remains an illusion. Then you must have done more thoroughly, including: write a government where one means government when it says the King. We have seen that the very need for constitutional changes was not the same, taking into account what comes next week, with the Wage Committee, combined with our proposal that future changes could be made in a worthy contemporary Norse, which would also bring us out of the 1903 strait, which we also realize creates tensions between contemporary language users and the Constitutional text. At some point, it would have to be done, either through the gradual approach we are proposing, by incorporating new changes in present-day form, or by the more shipper-taxed revision that is now taking place. When this revision takes place and we can gather on the Vinje proposal, we have initially received a law that meets those who want to modernise the text, while Vinje has provided us with a textual basis where all the words and spelling forms are within the current spelling standard and at the same time build a better bridge to the previous constitutional text. Then someone will point out in later articles that then maybe the translation of the graver selection book destination text into new Norwegian will give some major tensions. There's a concern you don't have to take inwards, because those who will later have to make interpretations if this were to be put at the forefront will also enjoy the current Constitutional text, as it has been a premise of all those who contribute to change today, that there should be no substantive shifts. If there is interpretative material about old words and expressions in the old constitution, it would also be possible to build on it if there were later to be confusion regarding the interpretation of the new texts – whether it be in the Vinje version or in the Graver’s new Norse version. I'll end by saying a little bit about the processes in the last few days. I had actually thought that today we should all be in a good mood. I'm in a very good mood – it's not every day you get your draft constitution adopted. I also see that there are happy former representatives here and others who have made a significant contribution to the debate, and have participated in a lively democratic debate, as it should be around constitutional changes. I have to say, however, that after the Committee had finished its position, it was not unnatural that the parties could be expected to stand on the positions they had signalled in the Committee, that is. that the Christian People's Party, which has programmed that they did not need any new constitutional language, stood by it. In this debate, the left has also been visible externally as defenders of the current constitutional text, and the recordings also contributed to the Right’s precisely taking the round of the Human Rights Committee to see how much modernisation needed after the next week’s changes in content. Then it turned out that things happened, that the Christian People's Party prioritised exercises other than its own program – they can probably explain that later – and to cut through, and to keep the language debate in the same corridor, to put it that way, I offered the committee leader yesterday, by a letter I handed over at 0 p.m. 10.20, that now it is up to the Workers' Party to create dynamics in the matter by stopping insisting that the renewal can only be done through the book target version of the Graver Committee. For practical reasons, I had to set a deadline of 1 p.m. 17.00, and 24 minutes before that deadline, I was called with the happy message that we had a majority for the linguistic change that is being discussed today. It's an excellent proposal, which I've been up to before, that we can now gather on the Vinje version. I am calling for a slightly happier and more offensive argument from the parties that will now vote for this later today – it would also have happened for the later history writing. But on behalf of the Right I can say that we are satisfied with the development of the matter as it has been along the way, and we are pleased that we are today getting a majority for a conservative, worthy modernisation of the Constitution. We all deserve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e466	In the public change of words around this day, I notice that the term ‘worthy’ is used quite often. It is absolutely right that, on this occasion – on every occasion – the Storting should behave properly, and I will do so. But when Tetzschner makes his enquiry to me in the way he does here, I have to protest. It is wrong, it is trendy, and I do not think the representative should present it that way. He gave me a letter -- that's quite correct -- which was an attempt on his part to get Right into the fold, after it was obvious to them that they would be standing alone in the hall today if they hadn't. Then he asked me to leave the conversations and the conclusions that we had had with the other parties. I rejected that. I stand by that, and I think it's worth it. That the representative believes that this is not the case will be on his own account. That's my line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e471	I don't know exactly what the question was, except that it was an alternative presentation. Of course you have to go into that a little bit. There was no reference to an agreement when we had the conversation yesterday – on the contrary, the initiative was accepted positively – and no reservation was made that it was bound by other events. I have not seen any agreement either. I have seen some papers with some unfilled names, but it is not a basis for the matter we are dealing with today, although for the Workers' Party it seemed for a while as if it was a good idea to link the language changes today with the content changes next week. For the dignity of the Greatness, if we first use that word, it's very important that we settle linguistic disagreements in the aesthetics part, in the linguistic part. I do not think that there is good compliance with the change rules in the Constitution if you also mix changes in content in a trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e476	It was not necessary for me to ask questions in that line. It was a line that was meaningful. It is quite obvious that what also happened in the public room when the representative Tetzschner presented that letter to the public, was that it was claimed that I responded to it as an initiative from the Right. I was the one who initiated the conversation with Tetzschner to inform him about the situation in the committee, so that they could act constructively. That's the exact opposite. That's what's the truth, and I honestly don't think it's possible to try to rewrite it. Can't you just say that we realized that we had to leave our position? It's an honest thing to do that, instead of trying to make a cover story with legally pointed formulations that have nothing to do in the world of politics. That's what's happened, and I don't like it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e481	This letter contained a reference to Constitutional Amendment No. Twenty-five, bookcase, and Constitutional Law No. 22, i.e. a reference to Finn Erik Vinje's language proposal, promoted by Anders Anundsen, Per-Kristian Foss, Carl I. Hagen and Michael Tetzschner. I said that the only thing that could create dynamics – in summary form now from the letter – was if the Workers' Party no longer insisted that the renewal could only take place through the book target approximation of the Graver Committee. It was accepted by what I got at noon. 16.34, and I could go on to my group with. We had an extraordinary group meeting, I could inform about it, and so we had a majority. Now I think we should be glad that we have that majority and rather argue a little positive for it, not presumptuously that the Labour Party might not get its primary proposal through. Now we have the renewal that so many people have wanted, and we've got a renewal that we in the right can stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e486	The dynamics of the case were created long before the Right came onto the track. The dynamics of the case were created on the basis that I explained in my post, referring in particular to the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. That's what created the dynamics and the situation, no initiative from the Right, because the Right has been opposed to all the renewal of the Constitution throughout the treatment. The representative of Tetzschner has been the foremost spokesman in politics – and with legal arguments – so that this should not happen, and it is written in the vote. Until yesterday morning this was a fact. I won't let go of this story, because this is the truth, and I repeat for the last time: it could be honest enough to admit. It would have been a straightforward matter, but not trying to make another story, for which there is no coverage. It's not a worthy act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e492	Both now and earlier in Mr. Kolberg’s posts are referred to ‘resilient opponents’ of changes. I have explained that we met the changes we would have made next week, where we removed difficult words and expressions that even the Labour Party insists on using as examples in its committee position. My question back must be: does the Workers' Party use these examples because they have not familiarized themselves with the position of the Human Rights Committee, or is it against better knowledge? That's pretty interesting. The second is the dynamics. The dynamics I think are going to happen in the committee, with all the games that are represented. In the Control and Constitutional Committee, all parties are present, and we can make compromises there without making arrangements in the corridors. It's a kind of policy I'm a follower of. The truth is that the chairman of the committee was unable to create any dynamism in the committee. With his insistence that modernisation could only happen through the Graver Committee, we were in a locked situation, which we got holes on yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e497	When the vote was in place, there was no majority, and of the dynamics that have happened afterwards, I just want to say that as the case-law rapporteur I agree with the understanding that the representative of Kolberg has. In the setting, the Right in the 1903 language stood and was against both the Vinje version and the Count's book goals and new Norwegian, and said that one would modernise the basic law language through changes in individual paragraphs, for example in the Human Rights Committee's proposal, the so-called Wage Selection. What was the matter with the Wage Committee, however, was that the constitutional proposals that were put forward were made either in the 1903 language or in the Count's bookcase and in the new Norwegian language. So it wasn't possible there to modernise the book target language, because it was connected to the new Norwegian language. When did that come to the attention of the representative Tetzschner?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e504	There has been no need for a new recognition, because if you read from the Wage Committee, they have been so predictable that they have said that perhaps the Storting will change language form. So they've left themselves plenty of alternatives, both in novels, in ordinary books, and in traditional constitutional languages. So there had been no problem at all. The size is completely free. If they had not done so, these matters would probably not have been possible to separate either. That would have been part of the same debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e509	The representative Tetzschner and I ourselves have been perhaps two of the strongest speakers in society in the world today to preserve the Constitution as we have it, and not to modernise it or change it in language. Now it's clear that it's going to happen anyway. Then you have two choices: you can choose the worse solution, where there is no harmony between two versions, i.e. Vinje and Graver's new Norse. There is no harmony between the two, and it is well explained by the representative Lundtigen. Or you can choose to go for it's the most harmony in, graves and graves. I hear the representative Tetzschner say that the Workers' Party now does not get its primary position through. I hope it's not the prestige that makes you decide not to – that you let the Basic Law be used in a performance game like that. My question to the representative Tetzschner is: does he see that there is more harmony in graves and graves than in Vinje and Graves?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e516	This is with respect to reporting problematisation. All the proposals take the view that there should be no significant changes to the Constitutional text of the day. If there are any interpretation problems, all the text must be put in front of you, even the current constitutional text that leaves the law now, because there will also be interpretation history related to the current provisions. The Supreme Court – and those who are to work on this – will have to address all the legal issues surrounding the law and not be limited, as the representative implies. Then I want to add that there are not only different language tastes that make us have also had to choose away Graver. These include: because at one point, in relation to the relationship between government and the authority of the Storting, he simply describes borrowing errors and adds them to the Storing, while it will be wise for the government to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e523	In the notes, it is very clear that the Right can imagine a basic law written in several language versions at the same time, namely that you keep the old language in some paragraphs that remain standing, while the new paragraphs are to be written on a modern, time-consuming book, and I almost assume that it is also new. But what seems to be the solution today is to choose two different language versions in the proposal that will be adopted. That means that there are differences in the proposals that the representative has just described. The representative likes to be concerned with words like elegance, etc., but it's not very elegant to have two different language versions. Then I would like to ask the representative a question – in the future: Does the representative Tetzschner believe that it will remain in the future that we have different versions of the Constitution and book goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e530	Yes, a majority have suggested that we should have when we first do the rewriting of the Constitution. It's also helped the right. If we first make changes, they should also be able to be written in new Norwegian. I don't think you're going to imagine that having two parallel texts will never lead to a nuance difference being invoked. My knowledge of lawyers suggests that you often process what you find, so I'm not going to guarantee that no one will have as a point. But those who examine the sources, who will examine the assumptions for this debate, will also know that the original Constitutional text with the interpretation it still contains in history will be the legal source of use in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e537	In the solution that the Storting is now on the way, the combination of Vinje and Graver, we get two language versions that are written on completely different premises. The version of the wine is designed with the aim of preserving the original language theme as far as possible. Graves’ new Norse version has been developed with the premise to get a modern, up-to-date version of the Constitution. Does the representative Tetzschner realize that this is a development that needs to be continued, namely to have a book target version in a language that no people in Norway speak, and thus to have novel versions of the Basic Law that have been updated to it at all times in the modern New Norwegian language?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e542	I do not share the assessment to the representative Hansson that Vinje’s moderate modernisation text is a language that no one speaks. It's within the spelling standard. At the same time, it respects its historical origin. It's well done – you have to be of such a capacity as Professor Vinje to do this. The proposal builds bridges to the historical text, while fully using everyday text in Norwegian legal practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e547	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e550	It's a familiar case that language is power. Its more complex and difficult language is written, the greater power exerts the master of the language, compared to the one who does not master it so well. In particular, this applies in the legal language literature. It should not be the understanding of the language itself that determines the relationship of power between people and institutions. The most important legal document in our country is the Constitution, as it regulates the relationship between the legislature, the executive and the judiciary. This is therefore the highest legal source in Norway. When it was written 200 years ago, it was probably scarcely accessible to anyone other than those who dealt with legal issues, and the document was probably not written for the use of the ‘most people’ to use that expression. In 1903, the language of the Constitution was adjusted, so it was somewhat more in line with the spelling of the last third of the 1800s. So the version of our constitution is a 1903 version. It's not from 1814, which many people actually believe. Since 1814, and especially after 1903, our language has had a development and modernisation in line with what has happened in many other countries that we can compare with. For this reason, there has been an ever greater and greater distance between the wording of the Basic Law and the language used in daily, even in the general legal literature. Some years ago, Carl I. Hagen, while he was Vice President, took the initiative to update the Constitution in a language. He opened up here for an absolutely necessary debate. Initially, scepticism was great in most of the parties to make a complete revision of the language. However, after extensive consultations and various expert opinions based on language professor Finn-Erik Vinje's draft, political Norway matured to address this. When the Stortinget discussed Hagen’s and Vinje’s proposals in the previous period, representatives from several parties gave praise and tribute to Hagen’s initiative. This led to the need for many to modernise their language. However, the majority of the population also wanted a new Norwegian version of the Constitution. That is why the presidency was asked to set up a sample to make a new proposal, both in bookcases and in new ways. The selection was led by Professor Hans Petter Graver. The result was that we got two language variations in book goals, one developed by Vinje and one developed by the Graver range. In addition, we got a variant in Nynorsk. During the 2009–2013 ageing period, Anders Anundsen, Per-Kristian Foss, Carl I. Hagen and Michael Tetzschner promoted proposals for linguistic renewal of the Constitution with a version prepared by Professor Finn-Erik Vinje. In addition, Anders Anundsen and Per-Kristian Foss promoted a new Norwegian version prepared by the Graver Committee. Representatives of the Red-Green Parties submitted proposals for a version of the Basic Law in contemporary book goals and in new Norwegian, both languages drawn up by the Graver Committee. The Progress Party has seen that there is a great desire to legislate also a new Norwegian version in parallel with the fundamental law fixing of a book measure version. New Norwegian has thus been included in order to obtain the widest possible majority in order to modernise the constitutional language. It is also important that both target forms in the Norwegian language are now constitutionalised. The Constitution is, as mentioned earlier, the highest legal source we have in Norway. There shall also be a solemnity under the Constitution, and this shall be reflected in the language. The Progress Party believes that the language developed by Professor Vinje has a somewhat more cautious approach to modernisation than the Graver Committee has in its bookkeeping version, and Vinje’s version appears somewhat more solemn in the language version. The Progress Party believes that such language appears, both in the bookkeeping and newnorm version, it should be easily understandable to most people. During the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee on this matter, we have had both internal and external consultations with the participation of higher legal and linguistic expertise. A central theme of the hearings has been to clarify whether interpretation problems can arise from the existence of the Constitution in both forms of the Norwegian language. Everyone who has participated has confirmed that this does not pose any interpretation problems. The Presidency has launched the Constitutional Anniversary in an excellent way and has inspired the local population to come up with proposals for measures that mark the anniversary. This has brought great attention to the theme, and it is the desire of the Progress Party that the Constitution should now be revitalised as a legal source. One can thus hope that the Constitution will come back to the school wall. Another positive effect of the Constitution’s linguistic renewal and revitalisation is that in the future it will be significantly easier to promote new constitutional proposals, as they can be formulated in the almost current language framework. I would like to express my great thanks to the rapporteur's description of the recent work on the renewal of the Constitution, in which he particularly brings forward Professor Finn-Erik Vinje's extensive and long-standing work on linguistic modernisation of the Constitution. The Advocate General then referred to the great and persistent effort made by Carl I. Hagen, together with Finn-Erik Vinje, to draw up a complete proposal for a prudent change in the language of the Constitution. The Committee emphasises that the work of Finn-Erik Vinje and Carl I. Hagen has been strongly involved, if not decisive, in the adoption of the Constitutional Act by the Stortinge in ours, and we would like to thank Hagen and Vinje for their high valued efforts in this work. Carl I. Hagen is present at the diplomatic lodge today. Chances would make him 70 today, and I will take the liberty of congratulating Hagen on his great day – in a double sense. After it seemed for a while that there would not be a majority necessary for the modernisation of the language, we re-opened in the Committee the question of whether the parties could gather to form a majority constellation in the Biggest for this. I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the Christian People's Party, which took the initiative to consider, however, joining a change in the language of the Constitution. I am also pleased that the Right and Left have now ended up with the changes, so that a very large majority in the Biggest show the will for change, as the Biggest in the last bigst period had a wish. Now the sequence of events has been recorded here today. I'm not going to go deep into it, I'm just going to limit myself to confirming the version that Martin Kolberg presented today. Today is a day of joy when the Norwegian people are given a constitution in a language that is understandable. The Progress Party will vote for changes in the Basic Law language according to Vinje's Book target version and the New Norse Graves version.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e593	Let me just first connect a few words to the line change that took place between the representatives Kolberg and Tetzschner instead. I fully agree with Martin Kolberg's version of how the consensus that secured a two-thirds majority was achieved. The same has also been confirmed by the representative Helge Thorheim. It was therefore not the right turnaround during Monday that created this two-thirds majority. The foundation for a qualified majority was laid before the weekend, through discussions between the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Environmental Party of the Greens and the Christian People's Party. In a few days, 200 years have passed since the Norwegian Constitution. Every year it has been a symbol of freedom and independence. Our constitution is one of the oldest constitutions in the world, and it stands well in our time. Of course, changes have been made in substance in these years, but all changes have been made in the spirit of the Constitution. There has been no linguistic revision since 1903. This implies that today’s Constitution has a language theme from 1903, while the Norwegian language has changed a lot since then. This anniversary challenge is the two major constitutional issues on the Stortinge agenda. Today it is the case of the Basic Law language, next week it is the incorporation of central human rights into the Constitution that is on the Stortingen agenda. Although these are two completely different things, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to clarify where one has seen these two things in a certain context. For the Christian People's Party, it has also been important that if human rights are to be incorporated into the Constitution, the central rights should be included, and formulated in a way that does not leave any doubt that they are closely linked to the international human rights conventions. We also think it is important that the adoption of these constitutional changes has a broad political base. After all, that's not a small question we're talking about here. Since the processing of constitutional cases has only partly taken place in parallel, it has not been possible to see how the outcome of the case for the incorporation of human rights would be before the suspension of language. Therefore, the Christian People's Party took an initiative against all the parties who wanted to modernise their language, after the language setting was given. This in order to see whether, despite the position of the committee, which did not provide a qualified majority for the modernisation of the constitutional language, it could nevertheless be a basis for creating such a majority by involving important formulations in key paragraphs on human rights. It is only after the Committee's decision on the language issue was given that negotiations have taken place between the parties. The result of these discussions has led the Christian People's Party, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Green Party, to the realization of important fundamental formulations which are precisely in keeping with the important link between human rights in the Constitution and international human rights in a clear and comprehensive way, and which ensures that we do not relativise the human rights that are now part of the Constitution. This, together with a clear emphasis on the importance of the family as a basic unit, has been important matters that have made the Christian People's Party re-evaluated its position on the language issue and will today vote for the modernisation of the language. Some might argue that there must be limits to pragmatism in a constitutional case. We in the Christian People's Party will call this a basically justified pragmatism, where we have prioritised important, principled views on human rights paragraphs in front of our primary view of the language of the Constitution. The basic law language is important, but how the incorporation of central human rights into the Constitution is done has been even more important to our party. I will therefore give tribute to the chairman of the Committee, Martin Kolberg, in particular, and to those parties that have contributed to creating this consensus of which the Christian People's Party has become a part. I would like to underline again Kolberg's version of the conversations that have been held. In the setting we are dealing with today, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and Left, has written comments in which we have agreed that the constitutional language should not be changed. For the Christian People's Party, the main argument for maintaining the constitutional language has been to secure us against interpretation problems, which several linguistic versions in certain given situations could contribute to creating. We have also stressed that the Constitution has a symbolic value and is a cultural history document. At the same time, we have clearly seen that there are good arguments that speak to modernise the language, not least considering that the Constitution should be in a language that makes it more accessible and understandable to people of today. We also have to acknowledge that we have had many within our own ranks who have given clear signals about the importance of getting a new Norse version in place. The outcome of the negotiations that have taken place in the last few days has, as stated above, provided the basis for the Christian People's Party as a group today to change its vote in the language matter with regard to the vote cast. This means that today – and I say that with great joy – we can contribute to the creation of a broad constitutional majority to modernise the language, and to an official version of the Constitution in neo-Norwegian. Today, we have two similar languages in Norway – book goals and new Norwegian. It's been like this since 1885. The fact that we are now receiving an equal opportunities gift also from the Constitution will be an important recognition of the new-nosed, the new-nosed, the new-nosed, and of linguistic equality. For the Christian People's Party, the view of the constitutional language has not been primarily a struggle against the modernisation of the language, but a struggle to preserve a constitution that should not allow for different interpretations, and thus also no doubt about what the legal text really is an expression of. It is therefore not correctly understood that we are a party that has opposed a new version of the Basic Law, but we have been skeptical of both bookkeeping and new Norse versions that could create any doubt about the interpretation of the Basic Law. The Christian People's Party has, on the contrary, been engaged in all aspects of the development of the meaning of new-surgery as equivalent language to bookkeeping. We will continue to work to ensure that this will be the situation in Norway in the future. The reason why we put ourselves in our position as we did was – as I said – a concern that several variants of the Basic Law could create interpretation problems as to how this could be understood in Norwegian law. However, we have now chosen to listen to all the lawyers who believe this is no problem. It can also be mentioned that other countries with more than one official language have official versions of their constitution in several languages, for example: Finland and Canada, without creating any significant problems. Over the last few years, a great deal of work has been done on both the language of the Constitution and the incorporation of human rights into the Constitution. For the Christian People's Party, it has also been of importance that after such great work had been done, the Storting could find good and broadly anchored political solutions, so that this work was not wasted. This has also been a contributing reason why the Christian People's Party wanted to sit down at the negotiating table with the parties who wanted linguistic modernisation, just to see if it was possible to get these broadly anchored solutions – which today appears to be the result. Today, when it can be seen that this is the case, we are of the opinion that the language versions – in book goals and in new Norwegian – we today have a majority of two thirds for, precisely the quality and clarity that make us still aware of pride in the context of the Constitutional theme. I refer you to the rapporteur's excellent statement on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e632	I asked the question earlier this year if we would like to reject the Constitutional language, and that in the anniversary year. The Constitution is the highest legal document in Norway, the most significant. Both the usual decisions and the legislative decisions taken in the Stortinget are being tried against the Constitution. The celebration that the Constitution is 200 years old has been going on for a long time, and well over 300 events in the country are to be held. In this victory rush, we are today going to carry out a thorough linguistic reform of the Constitution in the Grand Duchy. In fact, we are going to abandon our most important cultural and legal heritage, our most important cultural and legal document, to the benefit of a more modern language theme adapted to our times. The original language of the Basic Law was written in 1814 and was carefully renewed in 1903, so that the text could be understood. The current constitution is therefore the closest we come to the 1814 version. Only ortographic changes were made in 1903. A very cautious normalization was carried out, and even words and expressions that did not belong to the contemporary were preserved, when they came from the constitutional language in 1814. For treatment in the United Kingdom, there are actually three questions about language. Are we going to keep the existing text that is close to 1814, or are we going to change the constitutional language in line with proposals made by Professor Finn Erik Vinje, possibly on a proposal from the Graver Committee? If either the Book target version of the Basic Law is adopted by the Vinjes or Graver Committee, it is quite certain that a new version of the Basic Law will also be adopted. Professor Vinje has made extensive linguistic changes in the constitutional language, but says he has tried to retain the Basic Law's authority and dignity through the language theme. Unlike Vinje, the selection, set down by Stortinget and led by Professor Graver, has written about today's existing constitution for our contemporary bookmaking. It is argued that the text is most comprehensible in this way. Furthermore, it is stated with gravity – and rightly so – that Graver's book target version best harmonizes with the advanced new Norse version of the Graver selection. It is argued that one should therefore adopt both Graver versions in preference to Vinje’s proposal, as this will result in greater consistency and harmony between the Bookkeeping and New Norse versions of the Basic Law. Language reform does not entail a change in reality of the provisions. However, language changes. If we adopt a new text, the interpretation will arise in the years to come about what language means. In two versions, Vinjes Bokmåls Version and Gravers Nynorsk Version – possibly Gravers Bokmåls- and Nynorsk Version – there will also be contradictions between the texts, both of which are to be considered equally valid legally. Between Vinje's Bokmål and Graver's Nynorsk, there's all disharmony now – they're a little musical together. The modern language is being developed, and what words and expressions in book goals and newcomers mean in 50 to 100 years, no one in this room can predict. There are already linguistic differences in Vinje's book target version and Grave's new Norse version. When such interpretation challenges arise, the legal dispute will have to be resolved by going back to the current Constitution, i.e. the 1814-1903 version – this because any linguistic reform this year does not involve any change in reality. This is presented, inter alia: by former Supreme Justice Carsten Smith to be legally unsustainable and politically unwise to facilitate. Furthermore, Professor Vinje, Professor Eivind Smith and other scholars have rightly pointed out that there are demonstrable errors in the versions of the Graver Committee, both the bookkeeping and the new Norse version. That is, if the Stortinge adopts the Graver proposals, the adopted Constitution in the anniversary year will prove to be at least one point of error. Professor Emeritus Trond Nordby presented this in open consultation under the authority of the control committee as constitutionally unsustainable. The size should not adopt a constitutional version that is proven to be wrong. Today, Stortinget will go into the history books as those who with open eyes made mistakes in the text of the constitution – and that in the year of the anniversary. No big deal, some say, we can fix this after the next big deal. Language reform of the Constitution is also about emotion. Do you feel it is right to reject the constitutional language that is closest to the language used by the mariners? And not least, what significance should we attach to our cultural history documents? It sounds a little strange when I'm going to say this, but it's true: I fell in love with the basic law of law school. Maybe only lawyers and historians are able to develop such feelings for the Constitution. But that is why many of us – and many more with us – will keep the text as it is. It's feelings, yes – and it's like loyalty. Using the word 'patriotism' here might be a bit too far in the Norwegian context. But when I think about why I want to keep going, I also feel a little bit like that. I'm proud to be born in Norway and belong to a country that has one of the oldest constitutions in the world. And our constitution is also among those with the oldest original language in the world – yes, perhaps the oldest. I believe this is something to keep, nothing to refuse for the benefit of our contemporary bookkeeping. I ask the question: what makes us in Norway want to throw away everything that is old? We don't have a constitution that's something to be ashamed of? I think we're going to be proud to have a constitution that's among the world's oldest, also linguistically. This is not least about our identity that extends over time. Our independence is linked to the Constitution of 1814. To understand our time and know where to go, it is also an advantage to understand our past. We must not, by changing the constitutional language at the same time, deprive future generations of the opportunity to experience their own past, the language of the mariners and the history of history. But we do that today, where the old version will be made a museum object and then only read by the very special interested ones. It is argued that the people must understand what is stated in the Constitution and that the social contract provides for linguistic reform. Yes, the Constitution is difficult to read, but it is not impossible to understand. Furthermore, the Basic Law is currently also translated into English, without its adoption in English. Now, the Graver selection has created the book target version and the new Norse version that both, having undergone the necessary corrections, can be printed up for different purposes: educational purposes, etc. We should also have a Sami version, which serves the indigenous people and Norway in honor. But you don't have to adopt them. Furthermore, it has been stated in favour of language revision that new constitutional provisions will have to be made in 1903 language themes in the future, and it is therefore better that today's constitution is updated to our day. There are not many people in Norway who can write laws in 1903 language themes, perhaps just one. To this end, the civil ombudsman, Arne Flivet, has argued that new provisions in the future should be designed on both book targets and new Norwegian, depending on the preferred target form of the proposer. It will also show that our Constitution has lived over time and is a historical document. Thus, in the future, the Constitution will include provisions both in the age-old language and in a language that is our contemporary. I have agreed and have stated this. The debate has been adjourned here. The chairman of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, Martin Kolberg, referred to this solution as a bastard. But my proposal was not a new original invention, neither by Arne Fliflet. This proposal was targeted by the then Grand President Thorbjørn Jagland, and before the worker partyman Jagland has dead nests in jus Johs. Andy meant the same thing. There are more in society who want to preserve today's constitutional language as it is. We who will, believe it for several good reasons. We believe the Constitution is our most important legal cultural history document. Although some linguistic changes were made in 1903 from 1814, they were, as it were, mostly of an ortographic nature. The very moderate changes made were also made in order to preserve the memory of the mariners, which are not only defined in the provisions but also in the language. It's this story we want to keep. That's this legacy we want to continue to the next generation. The Constitution has a symbolic value and is a kind of living national clenodium in active use. This is because the Constitution is so closely linked to 1814 and Norway’s independence. Furthermore, there is full agreement – including among those who would like to see a new form of language – that today’s constitutional text does not give rise to interpretation problems. There is therefore no pressing legal need for it. Language is unquestionably ageable. The basic law is extremely difficult to understand on several points, but it is not impossible to get involved. We, who argue for this view, believe that preserving the language that is closest to that of the mariners has a self-esteem. It's about preserving the memory of our marines. It's also about feelings – perhaps primarily about feelings – and a little about loyalty. I have already mentioned something about this. However, I have great sympathy and understanding for those who argue to change the language of the Constitution. They call it a democracy project – to raise the importance of their proposal. But it's possible to turn it around and say that it's also fundamental democracy to preserve our history. For the piece of work done to create new versions, they can be printed up and recovered. However, it is now likely that there will be a change. I'll say something about it. The Christian People's Party and Martin Kolberg have opened the dance about a process, and I think the public deserves it all. There is now a change, this even though the Christian People's Party was in the setting. In the setting, the Left announced that we would vote divided. The right and Christian People's Party stands together in the setting that they will vote against language change - all their versions. In the immediate aftermath, after the cancellation, the Christian People's Party has been negotiating with some other party. I call a spade a spade. They ran to sell the language of the Constitution and go to the purchase of some constitutional provisions. I don't like this much. There are such things that give politicians a peculiar bad reputation. We're witnessing a horse trade between constitutional language and legal rights. It goes down in one provision, proposal for a new § 103, which has been added to the new voting next week. It's about the family being a basic unit in society. To achieve this, the Christian People's Party has sold what is in their own party program. The country meeting has decided to oppose the change in language. Hallelujah. I've been among the strongest speakers in society for the past six months so that we won't adopt any new language versions of the Constitution. I have written several chronicles about this and participated in several debates that we should keep our age-old constitution as it is and not wreck our most important cultural-historical legal document, but preserve it for future generations. After understanding the mood and the development of the last few days, and now the debate in the Chamber, there is a compromise solution with Vinje's book goals and Grave's new Norse version. I would strongly warn against this. These two versions do not harmonize well with each other, and compromise is rarely the best solution. It's not nice, and it doesn't serve either the Constitution or the Storting. Now that there is a new language, I will therefore argue to vote in favour of Graver's book goals and Graver's new Norse – only because these two harmonize well with each other, and because we should not adopt constitutional versions based on compromise. My original position is losing, and I believe that if we are to do modernisation first, we must choose the best solution. It was a great leap by the representative Kolberg to agree to Vinje's book goals in order to achieve language modernization and thus to give way to his original proposal and solution on the Graves plus the Graves. I have great respect for that. This serves him, who will have modernisation, in honor. But the price he and all of us will have to pay, I think is a little too high. The basic law that we are adopting today is going to stand for the next 100 years – both versions. It is little honorable of us to adopt the compromise Vinje plus Graver to satisfy different party political considerations. If we're going to have modernisation first, it's better to choose the best solution over time, and that's Graver Bokmål and Graver-Nynorsk. I therefore turn to the Right again and ask them to take the leap all the way out and go in for Graves' two versions, now that they are in favour of modernization anyway. In this way, a two-thirds majority is created for a constitution that has not been compromised, and in this way, we have created the best harmony and consistency between the bookkeeping and the new Norse version. This is what I mean: set aside this party political prestige, where the Workers' Party will not have its primary position adopted. This serves neither the Storting, the Right nor the Basic Law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e697	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e700	I very much appreciate what the representative Raja said now, that they belong to Graver-Graver. But my reply concerns the statement by the representative Raja that the Graver Committee had a manifest error of at least one point, in connection with Section 75(b). As the case-law rapporteur, I have to correct it: it is correct that there have been objections to the Graver Committee's wording at the point where it says that it is for the Storting to 'take up loans on the credit of the kingdom', whereas in today's 1903 text it is called 'to open Laan on the credit of the Kingdom'. At the hearing on 19 February, there was criticism, and Professor Graver acknowledged that it was a depreciation, but at the same time showed that it was common to use the term ‘taking up loans’ in a series of state-law literature, among others. from Arne Fliflet, Frede Castberg and Eivind Smith. There are no changes in reality in the Constitution, what is being done here, because it is in any case within the authority of the executive after the functional distribution in Section 3, and that is what is said here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e707	I thank you for the comment. It is not that it is primarily the one error there that bears my commitment and my position in the matter, but you can say that it is contributing. I see that there will be no political and major legal challenge with one defect, or perhaps with the other two that have previously been pointed out by Professor Vinje. But that's not what's carrying it when it comes to that I don't want language change. I've explained that, and I don't feel the need to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e712	I am fully aware, from the conclusion of the statement by the representative Raja, that that is not what can be the bearer. I just want to make it clear here now that it will not be a proven error to go in for the Graver Committee's proposal on bookkeeping and new Norwegian with reference to Section 75(b), because it is precisely described in the setting how you understand it, so that the doubt that some people may have at that point has been removed through the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e717	There should be no doubt that, linguistically speaking, it is not right, what is at the Graver Committee, both in book goals and in new Norwegian. It has – I would say – almost everyone in the environment put forward, except perhaps the Graver Committee itself. Professor Vinje has pointed that out, and Professor Eivind Smith has also pointed it out. They have well noticed that it is kind of pointing to the fissure in the eye when you have the beam through your own. There are major challenges with today's constitution as well. I do not think that the representative of Lundteggen should imply that, in fact, it is not actually linguistically correct, what will be adopted. So this can be solved politically and legally perfectly, but that's another thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e724	As has been clarified by the Committee's consideration in the matter, it was not possible to take individual paragraphs from Vinje's proposals and from the Graver Committee's proposals and combine them. So we had the choice between a complete Vinje version or a complete Graver selection version. As rapporteur of the case, it was completely impossible for me to suggest a complete proposal that contained errors – errors at one point. Therefore, it was essential to clarify this. There's no mistake, but it's a less precise formulation that's in line with what else says. So it doesn't mean any mistakes – it would be completely fundamentally incorrect for the Storting to make mistakes here – but it's less precise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e729	I don't have a direct quote to go forward, but at least I've noticed that Professor Vinje and Professor Eivind Smith at the Legal Faculty think it's wrong. I think at least that's how I've perceived them, and if I've understood them correctly, they say it's wrong. But as I said, that's not the bearer of my result, and I see that this can be solved both politically and legally. Then you can make the necessary changes after intermediate choices, if necessary, so that it can be put in place in a language sense at the next big time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e734	Both in the debate today and in advance of the debate on the matter, we have become thoroughly acquainted with the views of Mr Q. Raja, where the Constitution instead of being a living document is to be a national clenodium, and that when he realizes that it does not have a majority, he chooses, of course, the logical best arrangement: Graves-Graphs. I'm glad of the last one. But I'm still standing here wondering what the Left believes, because we haven't heard what the Left really means, other than that the Group is freed. I think it would have been okay if the representative from the Left could explain what the representatives of the Left in the Stortinge felt about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e742	I thought I was clear that we're going to vote for the Graver-Grapher version. We hope that it will be adopted, and then there will be a possible subsidiary vote, but I do not know if it is desirable to announce it now when we initially want to adopt the Graver-Grapher version. There will be a unanimous Left Group who will vote for the Graver-Grapher version. In the case that the Constitution is a useless and unintelligible foundation law now: it is undermining today’s existing constitution. It is fully usable and used. It's hard to read, but it's not impossible to read. It has challenges, but it has existed for 200 years. It has not posed any major legal challenges, nor has it any particular policy, and it is used for educational purposes both in schools, etc. So you're kind of exaggerating this because you don't understand what the Constitution says. It's not that hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e749	I think it serves the representative Raja to the credit that, when he sees that he does not get an impact on his primary position, he disregards the achievement and is in favour of the most rational and efficient subsidiary position. But the original position that Raja has foreshadowed is hard to understand for me, because in the beginning, Raja argues that keeping the original Basic Law will give less room for interpretation, while arguing that the original Basic Law is to be relegated to new provisions in modern languages. Can Raja explain how it will give less room for interpretation when you get a whole list of different language versions to different paragraphs in the same constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e758	I thank you first for the rose. The basic law of the day has been interpreted. In one minute this is put to the fore, but today's constitution is fully interpreted, there are no interpretation challenges, the Supreme Court is handling this fine, there are written a lot of dissertations about it, and the legal environment has sewing speed. As regards new provisions, there is no point in writing them in 1903 languages. There is no need for me to adopt a new constitutional provision today in an obsolete language theme. New basic legislation will then be interpreted as interpreting such new basic legislation in our own contemporary book objectives, and this will be pre-worked, and they will then be interpreted in the light of this – there is no challenge. It's not just me that's said this. What's fine is that both the civil ombudsman and former Professor Johs. Andenæs has said it. Even the representative of Kolberg's former party leader and staging president, Thorbjørn Jagland, has said that. So this wouldn't be a big challenge; it would be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e765	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e768	SV is very happy today that we get changes in the Constitutional language, as it seems to be. This is not a wreck of our cultural heritage, but it is a necessary update of the most important law we have. 200 years after we got our first constitution in some kind of official Danish, we now also get a new Norwegian version and a more modern book destination version. SV has been clear – and unanimous – for both of them all the time, and of course it is so that the two parallel versions, Graver-Graver, are the ones that are our primary position and those that we want to be adopted. There have been many adjectives in the debate today, and I just want to repeat some of them. It's not very elegant what we're going to adopt now, with – probably – a Vinje-bokmål version and a Graver-nynorse version, and SV will, of course, make new proposals that the Graver version can be adopted in the next majority period. The fact that this compromise that is being adopted today is going to be what has been going on for 100 years, which someone has been up here and said, we have no faith in, and we also believe that that is not the best thing. But it's a paradox – and a little funny – that we're now getting a new Norse version that becomes the most modern version. The most important reason for these new entrants is to celebrate today. This is the most symbolic change being made, and I'm very pleased with the broad majority as it now becomes behind this change, and that this lack of newnorth will not live on. So this, I think, is the most important thing. So short of the process that has been going on: I want to support what has been said about Kolberg's role and that version of it. The right has spelt sails beyond the margin of this case, and when they're going to recover again, it becomes a very strange presentation of the course of action and also very many special arguments for the view that the Right now lands on. I believe that the Right, like the Left, should recognize that once one's own primary vision has lost, one should, of course – in principle, and in order to be completely equivalent – go for Graver-Grapher. For the time is coming – true my words! It must be a goal that the people – i.e. the inhabitants, the people in the country – should be able to read and understand the Constitution without having years of legal or state science studies behind them. It is not the law of the experts; it is the law of all of us, of the people, of all the most important law. Otherwise, we discuss very much what is called ‘clear language’. Clear and comprehensible language has always been seen as a clear good and as a prerequisite for equivalence between citizens and authorities in all other matters. Unfortunately, the language we have in today's constitution creates a great deal of distance for ordinary people and residents. I don't think that's because it's not the way you wanted it to be, but it's the way it's been, after all, 200 years, and 200 years is very long, sail if there's been some slight changes along the way. So writing the Constitution – and other laws – in a language that is as clear and understandable as possible has nothing to do with a losing neither dignity, solemnity nor precision. Some complex issues require a lot and can sometimes require complicated languages. But this is not the case with our Basic Law, because there are now two more modern versions, of which SV thinks Graver is the best, but both are in a more up-to-date language, which is easier for more people to understand. So this is an important democratisation process, as many have said. If we were to keep the old constitutional version, I think it would slowly and surely weaken people's consciousness, because it's getting distant and old-fashioned and therefore also less important. So I believe that modernising the language of the Constitution is one of the important instruments for the Constitution to become more important again. So it's not at all – as the representative Abid Q. Raja and others have been up here and said – that you throw wrecks at the Constitution. No, you don't; you make the Constitution the most important law we have. It shall not separate state power, government and people. As everyone knows, SV is otherwise a strong supporter of cultural memory protection, but the law, which is to be used, and we believe that the Constitution must be in line with the time in which it will work, and – as in 1814 – show the way forward towards a better society and not point backwards. Having a living foundation law and not a national clenodium means that SV is important and in line with what was the whole main purpose of the Constitution and what happened at Eidsvoll 200 years ago. Having something that is old-fashioned, outdated and partly incomprehensible is neither more worthy nor solemn, nor simpler in terms of interpretation style. On the SV side, it is the content, values and principles we want to preserve – not the obsolete language form. It is a point that the language modernisation we now seem to have, not only will change the real content of the Constitution, so that it shows – mirrors – how Norway is actually governed, for example. with today's parliamentary system. But one place has to start, and that's why we think what we're doing now is an important place to start. On the SV side, we believe that the Constitution should be changed so that it reflects how Norway is actually governed, and I should just make a brief visit to it: because the Constitution is an important document for the governance of Norway, we believe that it is logically important that it explicitly states how Norway is actually governed. I have participated in some international delegations on behalf of the Stortinget, among others. The interparliamentary union in which we, among others, discusses strengthening democracy. There, I have attended a number of meetings with parliaments that are in no way democratically elected. As Norwegian representatives, of course, we are trying to promote democracy – popular democracy – and majority parliamentaryism as a system of governance to be viewed positively. Then on several occasions I have been met with the English version of the Norwegian Constitution, where it says that we have a hereditary monarchy, and that the king decides the most. Then we have been asked to subdue ourselves, and it has been said that Norway has really little to join in these talks with other countries where we want to promote democracy. This may seem like a ridiculous and perhaps a little unimportant side of the matter. I mean, it's not. I believe that our country's constitution says something about Norway beyond its borders, and therefore it should also be clear about these principles that we, as a nation, want to target internationally, to strengthen internationally, and to promote as important and necessary ways of ruling in order to have a real government of the people, and that is, of course, what we all want. The important thing today is that we get a historical break with an obsolete language and that we get a new Norwegian version. That the two different versions hardly stand in the future, I'm pretty sure. This day is going to be historic, but I think that the next round is going to come before we thought. From the committee position, it's really hard to read what's going to happen today, and I think that's pretty sad. I think it is sad that one has not managed to gather about modernisation, so that it could have stood in the position of Stortinget. I am particularly surprised at those who have mentioned during the treatment a version where you should keep a language that is from approx. 1903 to 1910, but where the new provisions are to be incorporated into more modern language forms. It has been used as a ‘speakable bastard’ about this, and I believe that it is — if any such thing were to be adopted. I don't think this is consistent with the reason given to preserve the original language. It is also because we are now in parallel with many changes in the Constitution relating to the provisions of human rights, where very large parts of the Constitution were to be written in a more modern language, while a few paragraphs would be left in this ancient language. It has been strange to witness how this view might arise that this should be a better version. I also hear that there are some experts who have raised this issue. I think it might have to do with thinking that the Constitution is such a loving and important document that you want to have it as a kind of cultural memory, but then I think you don't fully understand what the Basic Law should actually be, that is, a document that is important, that is to be used and that is to point forward. It's a happy day. On the SV side, we'll once again encourage all the parties, when we get a majority for a language change, to think about whether you shouldn't only take the step where you should take it, namely to adopt two versions that are the same, and that you don't have differences between the book measure version and the new Norwegian version, but if that appeal wasn't to come up, SV is nevertheless happy that we're taking the important steps we're taking today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e798	We are now in the middle of the 200th anniversary of the Constitution of 1814, and this anniversary is a very good and very important project. It's a project that uses a historical opportunity to raise awareness in the modern Norwegian people about the importance of the Constitution, for freedom, for independence, for justice and for well-being, and it's a project that uses a historical opportunity to remind people that it's far from a matter of course that we enjoy these goods in Norway today. There are very important historical, political and knowledgeal assumptions on the basis of which we are so lucky that for 200 years we have had a constitution that has given us the society we have today. In this project, in the communication of what the Constitution is, and what it means, it is absolutely indisputable for the Greens that languages are important. Language must be what conveys reality, which conveys the reality of the Constitution that we are all together about, and language should not have the function of opposing the understanding of what the Constitution involves. Today, the Constitution has such an old language that it's quite unison's consensus that it's hard for modern people to approach the real content. That is why, of course, the Green Party fully agrees with the large majority here in the United Kingdom in the previous period, who asked for an update of the language of the Basic Law, for book targets and, of course, also for Norway's other official target form, neo-Norwegian. This is also the reason why the Green Party in this matter has always been quite clear that we are in favour of and hope to adopt the Graver Committee's position with harmonised language versions in book goals and in new Norwegian. I have really serious difficulties, even though I base my best efforts, in understanding the logic behind having two language versions that are not harmonised. What we are facing today is that we still have an opportunity for representatives of all parties – and above all representatives of the Right Party – to think about once again and to choose the obvious logical and consistent solution, namely the two language versions of the Graver Committee: harmonised book goals and new Norwegian. This is in no way a question of scrapping the original constitutional text, as expressed by the representative Abid Raja. The original Basic Law is present and will be present as the starting point for understanding the Constitution and understanding of history. But already the Lutheran Reformation people — in 1517 and after 1517 — understood the meaning of the language when they translated the Bible into a language that people could understand. Those who handle the Bible language today still understand this because they regularly update the Bible into a language to make Bible content available to people and prevent the Bible’s contents from being camouflaged by a language that modern people do not understand. This isn't scrapping the story. It's the opposite of making history so accessible and so understandable that people can engage in history and in the Constitution and the real values it involves today, and do it to a greater extent than people have been able to do in Norway for many years. Now we're facing a situation where the most likely thing is that the Storting will vote for a combination of Vinje's book measure version and the New Norse version of the Graver range. It's better than nothing, of course, because it assures us the most natural and necessary, namely a new Norse version. Of course, we should not exaggerate the difficulties associated with Vinje's language version, but it is a real difference for today's young people to have to read Section 77 of the Vinje proposal: ‘When, on the other hand, a legislative decision two times has been endorsed by the Storting, it shall be sent to the king: [[...]] and the new Norse version of the Graver selection of the same: ‘When the Storting has taken the same legislative decision twice in a row, the decision shall be taken by the King: [[...]] It is relatively obvious which is most available from the two language versions. We therefore find ourselves in a situation – as the representative Karin Andersen pointed out – which is, in itself, polite from a neo-Norwegian point of view, namely that the neo-Norwegian version of the Basic Law becomes widely available, and that people in the Groruddalen and Greenland are going to start to read new Norwegian on an extent that no one had imagined the possibility of just a short time ago. But the more serious is the issue of Stortingen’s explanation as a result of this situation: how to explain to the Norwegian people that we have adopted two completely different ways of producing the Constitution – in the anniversary of the Constitution – for the neo-Norwegian and the book-speaking populations respectively. That explanation problem is going to be big and – I think I can say – embarrassing. What we're going to adopt is a nice and professionally trained T-Ford for the Bokmål people and a Tesla for the New Norse people. I would therefore like to repeat the call to all representatives, and in particular to the Right-wing representatives, to think again before they vote tonight. It is possible to get an updated, harmonised version of the Basic Law by simply clicking on the correct button. If that doesn't happen, we're going to get halfway into the goal, and then the Green Party will vote subsidiaryly for Vinje's version plus the New Norse version of the Graver Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e823	«If we're late, it's tight. We want to clear the garden. Bond measure, Quast as steel, no longer gives you any tolerance. Norwegian targets will have us in Norway, no longer with Danish kava. Bonding measure, Quast as steel, No longer gives tolerance.’ This song uses us to sing when we meet in the genus. It's a historic day today. We are given both decisions on the modernisation of Grundlova in bookcases and decisions on a new Norwegian version of Grundlova. The Constitution was first translated into new Norwegian in 1875 by the goalie Olav Jakobsen Højem, but was not proposed at the time in Stortinget. However, in 1901, Professor Gülsvik Grundlova converted into a new Norwegian, entitled «Kingdom of Norig’s Constitution», and she was introduced as a draft constitution by seven large-scale representatives on 15 June 1906. The neo-Norwegian version was supposed to be smooth with the modernized 1903 version of Grundlova. But at that time it was a nine-north, or a "land language" that it was then called, difficult to accept for the majority of the Stortinget, and the Constitutional Committee actually rejected it without a foundation. So it's time for a new version of new Norwegian and it's time for the Stortinget to adopt Grundlova in new Norse. The proposals we are considering today on the Constitution in New Norwegian are in fact the first after 1906. Between 1953 and 1985 the text collection "Our Law" contained an up-to-date translation of the Constitution. It was updated with regard to language and content up to and including 1980. Then I think that behind it there is a strong wish that the most important Norwegian text should also be in Nynorsk. So it's time for a new version of new Norwegian and it's time for the Storting to adopt the Constitution in new Norwegian for the first time. In a country with two full-time languages, a language selection can never be neutral. When the country itself, the Constitution, is to be modernized linguistically, it is therefore natural that it comes in both languages in balanced legal versions. This is the case in several other bilingual or multilingual countries, such as Switzerland, Canada and Finland. I would also like to thank all the target people, my friends in Norway's Goal Team, and everyone else who's been on it for our newfoundation. It's a big day for everyone. In the Labour Party we are aware that we wanted both modern book goals and new Norwegian when we were to update Grundlova. We are therefore in favour of the Graver selection proposal in both book goals and new Norwegian. Having clear language in the law promotes popular rule, public education and participation. Difor today's decision is so important. Digs themselves have stated that it is possible to combine the Graver selection's new Norse version with Vinje's book destination version, but this gives greater linguistic differences. Nevertheless, we can agree to subsidized to support Vinje's book target version, if we also get multiples for nynorsk. In 1814 we adopted Grundlova, in 1885 the Stortinget decided that bookcases and new Norwegians were to be jammed, and in 1905 the National Theatre set up its first piece in new Norse. In 1906, a new constitution was introduced for the first time, and today, in 2014, the Stortinget can finally adopt the Constitution in New Norse. And we get a new section 113 to read: ‘This constitution is attached in bookkeeping and new Norwegian. The two texts are balanced.’ So the next time we hit Eldegard in Årdal, yes, we shall celebrate with the next verse: «Blank as gold And soft as wool Is the Norwegian target. Like a sun on a mountain, like a flower-cheld, like a bird's song in the evening. A thousand years' root in the land, even a thousand years, it shall stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e888	After long and good discussions, everything suggests that today we will adopt a basic law in modernized language themes as well as a new version. That's right-wing fun. The right has been concerned with balancing a number of considerations in this process. The first is to preserve the historical lines of the Constitution. The Constitution is in many ways the birth certificate of Norwegian democracy, and we have been skeptical of a radical language reform that erases many of the historical lines after Eidsvoll in 1814. At the same time, we have had a desire to make the Constitution more understandable to people who want to read it. Of course, the basic law can never be understood simply by reading the text, you also have to look at previous interpretations and legal decisions. Nevertheless, there are some paragraphs that are very difficult to grasp. These are now being changed, and that's good. Equally, we've been concerned about caring for the neo-Norwegian target form. The way we wanted to do this was to replace the paragraphs that were written in the most ancient language, while at the same time we would facilitate future changes in modern language and optional target form. That's not going to be the majority for today. However, the solution you end up with – and decide – takes good care of our intentions. You get a new Norwegian version that is equal to the book measure variant. This will take care of the newcomers. You get a linguistically revised version of book goals, which makes the content more comprehensible to the readers. At the same time, the historical lines are respected, because Vinje's version is written in a conservative and high-quality language. I want to strongly refute the clues from this pulpit that we in the Right have the point of view we have, in order to stab people in the wheels. That's not right. We have the position we have, because it best suits our intentions. It's that simple. I am pleased that it now appears that a large majority in this case will vote for Vinje's book goals version and Grave's new Norse version, in the year that – as we know – it is the 200th anniversary of the Constitution and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e899	We have every reason to be proud of the Constitution. It stands in a proud tradition from the Enlightenment period, in the same way as, among other things, the US Constitution of 1787 and the French Constitution of 1791. The Norwegian Constitution lays down important principles, such as freedom of the press, that the people should exercise legislative power through their representatives, and that the people alone have the right to tax themselves through their representatives. In addition, it contains important provisions such as § 96 on law and judgment, and § 50 on voting rights. Just the important provisions and symbolism of the Constitution – that it is in many ways the rootstock of Norwegian democracy – mean that it must be accessible to all. Henrik Wergeland was a marked champion for the fact that 17 May – the celebration of the Constitution – was also to be the day of the children. Just because the Constitution is a pillar of society – significant both for current and future generations – it is of great importance that the language of our now 200-year-old constitution is updated, so that today’s young people also understand the content and meaning of it. When the Constitution was passed in 1814, we had no official Norwegian writing language. Today we have two, and they've been equal since 1885. The Eidsvollsmen wrote the basic document for the society we live in, in the writing language that they had available. However, the writing language in Norway has changed a lot since 1814. There has been a great deal of excitement about whether there would at all be a majority in favour of linguistic modernisation of the Basic Law on book goals, and whether there would be a majority in favour of publishing the Constitution in new Norwegian. As Norway has two similar target forms, it is obvious to me that the most important national document, the Norwegian Constitution, will be available in both bookkeeping and new Norwegian. Language equality is important. Deciding that the Basic Law should be in a new and book-based way is a fine way of marking the free choice – between nynostic and book-keeping – of all citizens, without involving measures that anyone might perceive as coercive, 25 pst. allowances or the like. It will be an important symbolism of the recognition of newnorms, of newcomers and of linguistic freedom – while stressing that the Constitution belongs to all Nordics. The Progress Party has always supported Vinje's book target version and the New Norse version of the Graver selection. I have to say it will be a great pleasure for me to have the vote yes to it today. I would like to join the representative Lundtigen's praiseworthy words and thank Carl I. Hagen for his expeditious work on the linguistic renewal of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e918	Today, each of us must vote in favour of or against the linguistic modernisation of the Constitution. The centre party has chosen to support the Committee's position, to endorse Constitutional Amendment No. 25, on the adoption of the Basic Law on Time Bookkeeping and New Norwegian, which is often referred to as the proposal of the Graver Committee, or – as is said here in the Chamber today – the Graver-Grapher proposal. The Central Party is pleased with the debate that, among other things, Carl I. Hagen initiated a language renewal of the Constitution in 2007-2008. It is this initiative that underlies the treatment we have today, because the examination of the proposal led to a decision by the Stortinge in 2012 that resulted in the Graver Committee and their suspension. The centre party believes that the Graver Committee's proposal gives us the opportunity to adopt a constitution in our equivalent writing languages, book goals and new Norwegian. It is vital, not least in the anniversary year, that we can have the Constitution modernised in both of our writing languages. That's the basis of our people's rule laid down in the Constitution. It was radical in its time. The centre party is proud of the basic law we have, but we believe that to help develop the rule of people – democracy – it is also important that everyone feels that they can read and understand the Basic Law paragraphs in a good way. It demands that the Stortinget adopt today a comprehensive, linguistic modernisation of the Constitution. Recently, 30 professors from different legal faculties in Norway were quite clear in an article on the language of the Constitution when it came to modernisation. They were concerned that clear language in the law will promote rule of the people, public information and participation in society. They also pointed out that when the Stortinget in 1885 decided to embellish new Norse and book goals, it is time that this elation was shown in the document which is more than anything else the symbol of a society based on democracy and diversity. The disagreement about the Constitutional Act's position linguistically is a long way to go a discussion about how to look at the Constitutional Act today. Many people from today's pulpit also say that they see the Constitution as a cultural historical document in the first place. But it must also be seen against the Constitution as a living legal document, which can well withstand the modernisation proposed today. The Central Party does not regard the Constitution as primarily a clonedium or as a cultural historical document. We regard the Constitution primarily as a living, legal document and as a basis for our rule of people. We are facing slightly different choices here today. The rapporteur was in writing about what, among other things. the combination that you might get here today – the proposal of Graves for a new Norwegian and Vinjes bookkeeping proposal – could mean. He mentioned a number of examples of how it could contribute to unnecessary practical problems. With the two proposals, there will be a greater distance between the new Norwegian version and the book measure version. That distance may, in turn, create confusion in practical, linguistic and interpretational terms. Very elegant is therefore not such a solution. The best solution would certainly be to take the step and modernise the language of the Basic Law, both book goals and new Norwegian, in line with what the Graver Committee proposed. Over the past week, several parties have changed their position on the issue of linguistic modernisation of the Constitution. The Central Party is pleased that representatives of several parties have now expressed their wish to vote for a comprehensive linguistic modernisation of the Basic Law. That's good. We in the Center Party stand firm for what we've meant in the setting. We believe that the Storting should take the whole step on the Graves' proposal, and will vote in favour of it. But we will also – if necessary – ensure that one gets a renewal, seams if that innovation does not go as far as Grave's proposals for bookkeeping and new Norwegian. This means that we will make sure, in a subsidiary way, that one can get the changes that can be made, because we believe that just getting a new Norwegian version of the Constitution is worth jubilating for – as a gift to the nation during the anniversary of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e946	The size of the book is now a foundation law for an old book, which will be out of date in the second we adopt it. Fortunately, the Stortinget will also adopt a constitution in modern Norwegian. One can argue to keep the present 1903 standard unchanged, one can argue for a modernisation to either modern bookstores or modern novels, one can argue for a modernisation to both modern bookstores and modern new Norwegian – which I am going to do – but that the Stortinget now has to go in for a foundation law on modern new Norwegian that is based on a basic law on a conservative bookstore, both linguistically and when it is built up, it is quite difficult to argue for. That's why the Left and I are going to vote for the equalized text versions of the Graver Selection for the foundation of modern novel and modern book goals. Constitutional changes are not something that should be taken lightly, and there have been objections to the adoption of a basic legislative text on two different target forms. In particular, the question of possible legal uncertainty in the event of linguistic conflict between the two versions has been central. We have no tradition in Norway of having promises of two different types of goals. Until now, we've been practicing the one- or-one principle. If adopting a foundation law on both target forms today would lead to legal uncertainty, it would be a good argument against starting a new tradition like this – in my view, the only really good argument against. However, the hearing round and the public debate on the constitutional language in the last few months have clearly shown that there is no real danger that such linguistic and legal confusion will arise. Norwegian courts and lawyers are already well trained to handle texts in different languages, not least because of the even greater harmonisation between Norwegian and EU law. The fact that the professional legal environment sees no problem in adopting the Graver Committee's proposal for two modernized constitutions also gives us a clear witness in the Official Journal of today's Bergen, where 33 professors from our three legal faculties are insistently asking the Storting to adopt both proposals from the Graver Committee. Moreover, in Norway we have a long interpretation tradition and a great deal of case law about the different constitutional paragraphs, so that the linguistic will hardly be able to address major challenges in the future, especially when the Stortinget will make it clear through its decision that the objective of modernisation is not to change the content of the Constitution. The last one, the meaning content, we have to figure it out in the next week. But I must be allowed to say that it is striking how great a public search light is directed towards Grundlova's ancient language, and how big and ongoing a darkness it is around Grundlova's age-old content. Prescribe as "The King's Person is Holy; he cannot be loaded or accused" is no longer modern because we adopt them in a new way. But the content will be debated next week. I have – after following and sharing in the public debate – found that the arguments for making linguistic changes in total outweigh the arguments against them. First, of course, it has a heavy symbolic value that we can get a foundation law that shows linguistic equality in practice. It's a big saying for the new-nosed and will show that even if we use new-nosed and book measures about each other in the legislative work, none of the target forms have a higher rank than the other. Then the laws that have the highest rank of all should show it in practice. Secondly, there is no doubt that today's constitutional text can be difficult to understand. The language of the laws is written in – which in practice follows a norm from the second part of the 1800s – difficult to access for non-professionals. The Constitution is a subject text and a legal text, but it is also a national symbol. In my view, it sends an unfortunate signal that our national symbol should be written in a language that is difficult to call Norwegian and that it is demanding to understand. Someone is concerned that the old-fashioned basic law language is high. In my view, it is not worth anything by the fact that ordinary people cannot understand their own rights and duties under the Constitution. When most counter-arguments against an updated basic law text on two target forms are now cleared off the road, it is time for the majority to gather on a new foundation for a new time. I am pleased that we seem to be doing today – at least in new Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e964	Thank you so much today. I would like to join many of those thanks, but also thank the case leader, the committee leader and the rest of the committee for the work they have done in the last few days, which has given us reason to rejoice that we are going to have a modernisation of the language in the Constitution after this day. So I'm going to say that what personally pleases me the most today is that we're now going to get Grundlova in new Norse. Several have gone to history to justify it. I tend to go to the future, because, point one, that's how many of us, in fact many hundreds of thousands, use new Norwegian as their language, write in new Norwegian, think in new Norwegian -- it's part of our identity to use new Norwegian. Language is one of the most important things human beings have in modern society. That's why it has to be able to experience that as a language user, with your language, you have the rights of others who use the majority language, have enormous value for many of us. That's why it's a fundamental question of rights that's important, and it's going to be important in the future. The second is that I've heard a lot of fine words that the two writing languages are equal, but the truth is, too, that Nynorsk is under strong pressure in the Norwegian community. Yes, it's even not only allowed, but quite common to talk down about new Norse. A search on the ‘Spynoric murder list’ that I did on Google just before I got up here gave 2,400 hits. The first hit was Wikipedia's English version, which introduces: «Spynosic murder list is a derogatory term in Norwegian culture, means to disparage the Nynorsk..." In addition, for example: another of the first matches up with a Right-Police politician who burned a release of the Nynorsk Glossary in the 2005 election campaign. He now has a prominent position in Bergens policy. Unfortunately, it is not unique. I myself have experienced many times right-wing reports on the burning of new Norwegian dictionaries in the public debate. If you've tried to attend a school election meeting in the Austland area and argue for the view that my party and the multiples in Norway have, one view has that it's not just that it's allowed to mean other things, the popular and cool thing is to talk grossly down on the nines, and a lot of people do it because it's popular and cool. That's why we're given the Constitution of New Norse not only symbolically important, but a really important expression of the rights of many of us, and an important signal that, fortunately, there is still a broad political plurality that is willing to stand up for us to have two equal written languages in Norway. Finally, I would like to say that the discussion of the matter here has brought to light both some of the better and some of the less good aspects of Norwegian democracy and the Stortinget. Some of the best I thought we've seen in the last few days, with great willingness to stretch and look for solutions that can take us in the direction of the great majority, and that now it turns out that the whole Storting will probably – perhaps with a few exceptions – vote for a modernized language, which for a long time has been a broad majority. Then I must also say that I think the opposite is true that if several of the parties that are now – then I am thinking in particular of the Left and Christian People's Party – voted for the Graver-Grapher version, had previously argued for it and not the very opposite, I think it would be easier to collect full disintegration about such a solution as the same party now, if I have understood it correctly, I think it is the best solution. I have to say, I think it's a paradox that the fact that we've arrived so late that we can find a common solution has been an obstacle to it. In the end, right: I understand their arguments very well – I understand the arguments for all the primary visions in this case – but I think it would be difficult for many people not to understand the solution if it became Graver-Nynorsk and Vinje-bokmål. If we look forward a little bit, I think everyone understands that it's not going to be like that on a permanent basis. We're going to postpone a trend towards the most likely, that we're going to adopt a Graver solution every year on book goals. Maybe it's okay -- the historical role of the Right is to be conservative. But I think we'd be more likely to go there right away. It'll be interesting to see, for two of the winners today are sitting over here: Carl I. Hagen and Ottar Grepstad. If we adopt Vinje Bokmål and Graver-Nynorsk, I believe it will prove that Carl I. Hagen wins in the short term, but that it is Ottar Grepstad who wins in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e984	Before we move on, the President will give the floor to Helge Thorheim to address the minority proposals. The debate suggests that they are the ones to be adopted, and then it is important that they have been raised before voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e987	In connection with my post, I unfortunately got hurt to forget to take up the minority's proposal. I take up the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e992	Then the representative Helge Thorheim addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e995	‘Why don’t you love me now and get done with it?’ — Ragnar Hovland wrote. Why don't you just give the Constitution back to people now and get done with it? I've tried to understand that. I have read and I have heard arguments as to why we should not have a reworked, comprehensive language version available to more people. It would have been particularly dressy today when it is 200 years since we abolished the nobility. Some arguments, including: performed by Abid Q. Raja of the Left, has been associated with cultural heritage, and that this is a matter of preserving it. You can say a lot of good and a lot different about the Norwegian cultural heritage, but I don't think it stands and falls on a revision of the constitution language from 1903. It is also part of Norwegian cultural heritage to wait for the bus when it rains, but it is not an independent argument against the bus shed. Another argument, put forward several times by Michael Tetzschner from the Right, is that one has expectations that the country's constitution will still be in Sunday dress. For me, it's a little bit of everyday clothes. For me, life is marked by everyday life. That's most of them. Maybe that's when we need the Constitution the most. In his post today, Tetzschner said that we are now getting a worthy language version. Dignity is popular both to discuss and to rely on in this room. What makes a solution with Vinje-bokmål and Graver-nynorsk worth more than a continuous change with the Graver-Grapher version? Is it worth the same thing as unavailable? Is it worth the same thing as fragmented? Several representatives have said that they themselves understand the Constitution, and that they understand the Vinje version very well. Honor them for it! But that's not an argument for not making it more accessible to more people. The old Norwegian-Danish official language is hard to read today by other than specialists, writes 31 law professors to the committee. The Constitution does not exist for specialists – it is for people. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that it is worthy, it is not least in respect of democracy, it is in the spirit of Eidsvoll, it is to show pride for a coherent revision of the language of the Constitution with the Graver-Grapher version and promotes it. Not doing that, that's what's radical. actively choosing to continue to make the Basic Law inaccessible to more people, that's what's radical. For the Workers' Party, there's only one way to do things, and that's to do it really. That is why we will submit proposals on Graver book targets if not enough people agree to that proposal today, and vote in favour of Vinje's version subsidiary. It's definitely better than nothing. And while we're waiting for more people to join the Graver-Graphers version, we can at least enjoy reading the Basic Law in New Norse. But even gagging representatives can not just sit reading the Constitution all day, they have to read a little bit of Olav H. Hauge too – especially today. If Graver-Grapher does not have a majority, I would particularly recommend the following strofe: ‘You shouldn’t think you’re a choice because they boast about you inside Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1015	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1018	The Constitution is important – it has been underlined by everyone today. But the reason why it has kept its importance is that it has been constantly changing, that its content has evolved with state custom, evolved with the development of human rights and evolved with the change in society. Its power in Norwegian society is in its power to change. If we are to give history a little – not so many who have been in the control committee for a very long time – it is such that some of us suggested having a greater review of the Basic Law until this discussion, which was not primarily about language, but was about the Constitution being more aligned with the statehood we have. The left was tuned down with thunders and broke. We just wanted an audit that was about us changing wordings like that "The King chooses a council" when we know that it is not the King who points out his advice any more. Why can't it be right in our constitution what is Norwegian state custom? We were shocked at this. Then we have the big debate on language. I have to admit that I think maybe this isn't the most important thing, sail if it feels like that today. I think the content is more important. I think that more important than whether it's called the pot or the pot, is what's up in the pot. So it is that the Constitution has not had the role of the Constitution either. in other countries. I've never seen a Norwegian feature film where someone who's been arrested is yelling out a Constitutional Paragraph, but I've seen a lot of American movies, where illiterates know which addition to the Constitution they're going to invoke. We might get a constitution with such a role, but it doesn't have such a role today. The Basic Law that hung in the classrooms of many of us was even printed with a font that made it impossible to read it for children. What I think is going to happen today is that Sveinung Rotevatn and Bård Vegar Solhell get right: with the vocalization that happens in this room, I think it's the newnorse version that wins. Suffering if I had been a social scholar at the KG in Oslo, and had the choice between presenting Vinje's sentence «for the most useful Maade» to my students, or Graver's new Norse version, where it is called «the most useful for society», I had – sail on KG at Frogner in Oslo – chosen the new version because it had been easier to read for the students. So if you have an ambition to make the Basic Law the symbol you want, I think with the vote it looks like we're getting today, the new Norwegian version wins. It's going to be the general public part.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1033	We're celebrating this year that it's been 200 years since Norway got its own constitution. And the Constitution was the result of a brave process of kingship and popularity cooperating to give Norway a modern set of governance. Today we are going to decide on changes in the Constitution, and I am very pleased that the Labour Party has stood as a rock for the new Norway. As a representative of the newcomer number one, and as a leader in the Løvebåkken Gållag, I have tried to work to influence the opposition – especially those who have seats on the board of the Løvebåkken Gållag and also my co-representatives on the Sogn and Fjordane bench. I am very pleased that it now seems to be becoming a plural number for Grundlova also on my goal – both a timely new Norse and a timely book measure. The Constitution is an important symbol of the Norwegian People's Government. History shows that Grundlova has had an important role in many key changes in our political history. The Labour Party believes it will be a clear strength for the development of the People's Rule that we have the Constitution in a contemporary Norwegian language, and that it is in both our target forms – both in terms of novelty and book goals. The nation will have a safer linguistic basis to understand the Constitution paragraphs. New and book target users are given an equivalent basis to understand the Constitution. This last one is particularly important. The Storting has thus itself taken a position on how Stortinget reads and understands the Constitution today. This ensures that later constitutional changes are also part of a linguistic healing process. Also, this helps to make the Constitution as clear as the Storting actually wants it to be. Having the Constitution in an understandable language and on both objectives is not to throw a wreck at the Constitution. Even if we don't get to the finish line today, improvements will happen. And it's time that we newcomers also get Grundlova available on our goal. Friends of Nynorsk and Ninorsk users! This will hopefully be a happy day, in which we will finally be able to comply with the balancing decision. It will probably be a little celebration for some of us today and tonight if it goes by the road. In the end: Thank you again to everyone who has stood on – and stood on top of it – for our new nostrils!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1050	Dear big-time politicians! I would like to start by saying that there is a great stanchion for an alternate representative to be called in on the Stortinget on such a day and get the opportunity to join in on something historic. Since I'm being and therefore aren't as often inside this house and these times, I might have the opportunity to observe the debate a little bit more from the outside than the others sitting here. It is mainly the perspectives that ordinary citizens, Norwegian teachers and local politicians I take into account in this debate, and from those perspectives it has been important to me that the Constitution must be understandable and accessible to ordinary Norwegian citizens. I believe that it is not today, and there are also others who have lit up from this pulpit. The Archaic language of 1903 makes it possible for an elite of lawyers and perhaps a few magnificent representatives to understand the content of the Basic Law fully, and there are even fewer who are able to write proposals in the correct form. That is why I now believe – over a hundred years after the last revision of the language in the Constitution – that it is high time for a renewal. The writing language has changed enormously since 1903. The great research process of the language really started only in 1917, and since then many revisions of the writing language have been carried out. This should be reflected in perhaps the most important document for our democracy, namely the Constitution. If the objective is accessibility and intelligibility, it is obvious that the Constitution must be available on both the official target forms we have in Norway, i.e. both book goals and new Norwegian. In one of the many e-mails I have received from people in the last few days, related to this matter, a newcomer writes the following: «The adoption of the Basic Law in terms of new Norwegian and book-keeping terms will be an easy and effective way of marking the free choice of all citizens between new Norwegian and book-keeping, without involving measures that anyone may perceive as coercive, quota or similar. It will be an important, symbolic recognition of new-surgery, new-surgery users and linguistic freedom.’ These are words I can put myself fully behind. It is also obvious to me that the book measure version that the Graver Committee has made is the one that meets the goal that the Constitution should be understandable to most people. The Graver Committee has, on behalf of the Stortinget, produced an updated constitutional text that is both legally accurate and linguistically good. It has been developed by a group of people who have both linguistic and legal competence, and in my opinion they have made good judgements in different language choices that have been made, and the text appears to be both accessible, understandable and comprehensive. Although Vinje's proposals also represent some modernisation, I believe that this version retains so many outdated and archaic forms that it does not meet the objective of accessibility and understanding. I also believe that it seems a bit funny that a government that has launched projects to clarify and simplify languages in the central government, is now voting for a version of the Constitution that is unnecessarily difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1073	This is a historic day in a historic year. In the anniversary year of Grundlova, we will adopt a new language form in which we will have a foundation law for both new Norwegian and book goals. This is an important issue that concerns both the content and the target form of our Constitution. I strongly want us to have two living writing languages, and as an active neo-normist from a part of the country where the newnorm is strong, this is also an important question in terms of having two equally targeted forms in our country. The constitution is the top legal basis for our state government and the highest ranked law in Norway. She plays a very important role in our social life, and she is the very foundation of the People's Rule. The Constitution is a historical document and a national tax, and so is the history of the Constitution. It'll be very clear through the constitutional celebration we're in the middle of now. The language form of the Constitution was carefully revised in 1903. Since then, Grundlova has not undergone any linguistic renewal. In the meantime, many Norwegian languages have developed. The language form of the Constitution is experienced today by many people who are obsolete, and it is also one of the reasons why we are dealing with these constitutional issues today. There is no doubt that the Foundation's content is difficult to access for today's readers, which harms the function of Constitution as a basis for our people's rule. A linguistic renewal of the Constitution is a democratization project that, in my view, seems to me to hold the People's Party. At the open hearing, there was clear professional support that Grundlova can and should be found in our two equivalent writing languages, book goals and new Norwegian, and that the purpose of the Constitutional Drafts is linguistic renewal and not change of reality. When I would like to have a foundation law on both objectives, it is important for me to listen to the professional advice that came up on the hearing. I have noticed that Professor Eivind Smith at the committee hearing stated that one has two significant, fully usable, equivalent versions that have been well worked out. I have also noticed that Professor Smith points out that both can be used to achieve much of the modernisation that he thinks we should get, and the most important thing now is to bring the Constitution back to a language that makes the people understand what's there. I am very happy and grateful that a good compromise has been worked out, which means that one today can actually make a decision that will give us a foundation for both bookkeeping and new Norwegian. This is a great recognition of the newnorse as an equivalent language, and it has great value for the further work of making the newnorse a living writing language.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1097	Democracy's basis is human participation. "Should a delta be understood. And in order to understand, a master language has to." It said the impending Minister of Culture during the opening of the 2013 language year, and that is probably the best explanation of all the recordings and the commitment to the language of the Constitution has been triggered. It has been a real pleasure to be in the midst of the stream of all instances and individuals who have informed the Storting in this process – either by personal presence or through various electronic channels. So thank you very much to all those who have made contact and appeal to the decision we are going to make today. There is every reason to celebrate, not least on behalf of new Norwegian. When the Constitution is signed in new Norwegian today, the writing language is inextricably tied to the future. Today’s Ninorian cultural centre says so strongly: ‘Only the equalisation decision of 1885 is more important than this.’ In 1814, we did not have a Norwegian language. In the anniversary year 2014, we have not only one, but two. For the signatures, it is only correct and reasonable that we use the revision to get the Constitution in Norwegian and make it more accessible. Therefore, first of all, I am going to vote for Graver Bokmål and Graver Nynorsk, subsidiary to Vinje Bokmål. At the top, Vinje-bokmål is a facelifting or make-up of Danish language of law with an older Norwegian as an ideal. The philological craft is from above. Symbolically and formally Grundlova becomes more Norwegian in Vinje's version. However, the proposal differs considerably from the plausible time available in Norwegian so that the practical gain is high. But even though the Vinje proposal follows the line of thought from the 1903 text, the legal text is, however, put closer to our time at many points. With this version, it will be much easier to complete the update of the Constitution to modern book targets at the next level. In any case, the basic laws are more available in bookbooks than they would have been without the Vinje proposal. And for those of us who are glowingly over-informed that it has a unique value that the Constitution is written in timely Norwegian, it is by no means a big problem that Grundlova is now the easiest to understand in new Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1110	Several have said that this is a brand day and an important day for us, and of course it is. Our 200th anniversary of the Constitution was also the opportunity to modernise the Constitution. Our Constitution from 1814 was a radical, forward-looking constitution, and a constitution based on the concept of freedom. This we have lived well with since. A renewal in connection with the 200th anniversary, which Stortinget asked for in 2012, is therefore entirely in place. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the review he had initially. It was clean and thorough. It is gratifying that we now have a nearly unanimous growth that is behind a modernisation and not least a linguistic equality of the Constitution in our two equivalent languages. It serves to honor the Stortinget, and it serves the mutual respect of our two Norwegian languages, new Norwegian and Bookkeeping. Although I use book goals, I believe this is very important. So much more is it not to add. Many have said wise words from this pulpit, but let me conclude by thanking everyone who has contributed to, in committee work and in this debate, that we are now getting a good and sustainable decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1121	For the Central Party, it is decisive that the Constitution, which is the very foundation of our People's Government, is in a language that makes it understood by the people to which it applies. Today, the Constitutional Decision is important for democracy. A linguistic modernisation of the Constitution is high time. The Constitution of Norway must be written in comprehensible Norwegian. The fact that Grundlova now uses both the equidistant writing languages of Norway, bookkeeping and new Norwegian makes today's history. I think, like the majority in the committee, that the wisest solution today is that Stortinget adopts Constitutional Amendment No. Twenty-five, that's the Graver selection's book-and-newsnork version. The Graver selection's binoculars and new Norse versions are customized for each other. Modernized wrap is as far as possible. Language has been made simpler and more active in relation to its original language and its Book target version. As the case spokesman said, Vinje's bookkeeping version is not a real modernisation of the language in the Constitution. The graver selection has constantly modernised outdated replication and expressions, but it is not done in Vinje's book destination version. Vinj's book target version will require more interpretation than the Graver selection's newnorm - e.g. in Section 100, first paragraph, on freedom of expression, where «should» must be interpreted as «shall» in Vinje's book target version. For non-specialists, this inequality seems very confusing. If Today's Storting adopts Vinje's bookkeeping version and the Graver selection's new Norse version, we will have a new Norse version that is clearly more modern in both language and word and expression than the book target version. The combination of the Graver selection’s new Norse version and Vinje’s book destination version will cause a number of practical and educational problems. Paragraph references will be different for a number of examples of your Graver selection have simplified sentences in some paragraphs. The Graver selection changes the sentence structure to make the basic law easier to interpret for lawyers and easier to read and understand for other readers. If the Storting adopts a new language theme with Vinje's little modern book destination version and the Graver selection's contemporary newnorm version, the new version of Grundlova can quickly become the primary language version in practical use, simply because the newnorm version becomes more modern and easier to read and understand. It's great for us to strengthen the position of the new Norwegian community, but it's not the right way to secure it. I would like to invite representatives of big business in all parties to vote for the Graver selection's textual version of the laws on both book goals and new Norwegian, so that we conduct a real linguistic modernisation of the Grundlova in both book goals and new Norwegian, our two equal written languages in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1134	I have some brief comments for some articles: The representative, Tetzschner, asked why the Senterpartiet argued so strongly for Graver-Graver, but nevertheless, if necessary, voted subsidiaryly for Graver's novel and Vinje's book goals. On May 21, 2012, the Center Party voted against having Vinje’s book goals. That was one and only at the time because we didn't have a new Norse version. It turns out that what we did was right. It was right to be a little patient, for just under two years later, we are now getting the Constitution in modern neo-Norwegian. It wouldn't matter if we weren't going to subsidize the new Norwegian proposal. Correspondingly, the Book target version of the wine is lighter than the 1903 language. Tetzschner further said that I had said that there was no need for prior knowledge to understand the Graver version and then referred to the relationship between the King and his council. Obviously, the representative has a point there, seafaringly has a point there. But what I said was that the language modernization that we're doing now with Graver-Graver, for many years to come, will make it easier to understand and read, and that's my exact statement. So to the representative Count of the Christian People's Party: it has been a point for the Christian People's Party throughout the process of creating interpretation problems. That is why that point has been one of the most important things for me as the case rapporteur to clarify, that it should not cause interpretation problems, which was the great challenge of the Christian People's Party. The setting made it clear that there were no interpretation problems. It did not take into account the Christian People's Party in its recommendation at that time, but I am now pleased that it is recognised that we are in that situation. So to the representative Raja who had feelings for the Constitution during law school, and that's good. It's good to preserve, but for the Central Party it's important to combine constitutional conservatism in the light of the factual circumstances of the paragraphs, i.e. the realities, with linguistic modernisation, so that we can now get a foundation law that hangs in classrooms and elsewhere, and that can be understood by our youth for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1152	When the Constitution was signed on 17 May 1814, it was radical. It was radical because it clarified the relationship between the state powers by going from one empire to the constitutional monarchy, but perhaps first and foremost stressing that above all institutions in the Norwegian system there are the voters in elections, i.e. the people. Then we got the germ of the People's Government, which has gradually evolved by having more people voting. Then it is logical and important that the most important document, which is the basis for that democracy, is understandable to people most. I agree with Mr Lundtägen and Mr Kolberg's excellent introductions, including those relating to the tribute of former representatives Hagen and Professor Vinje, who have contributed to the process. In planning the anniversary of the Constitution, it was intended that the anniversary should stress that the Constitution should be relevant – not just an historic celebration – that it should be forward-looking, that it should be relevant and that it should be a document relevant to democracy and debate on democracy in the future. It is then important that the Constitution is understandable to as many as possible of the five million inhabitants living in Norway. Then the representative, Tetzschner, would like to rallie and present it as if one is concerned with least intelligence. But that's not the point. The point is that once we have chosen a system in which the people have the highest power, it is important to hold on to the goal that the basis of that power is understandable to as many as possible. I don't think our Basic Law is supposed to be, first and foremost, a Clonodium – especially not with a 1903 language theme, one could possibly discuss it if the language theme was from 1814 – no, it should be a living part of democracy. I don't think anyone should fix anything that's okay. But I think it's right to correct the fact that the Constitution of many people today is not in fact understandable, as the representative Kolberg referred to with the example of Class 8 B at the school of the Netherlands. I think it's important in the anniversary year that they also have an opportunity to understand what it says when they read the Constitution, and see what it means for the development of democracy. For the same reason, in addition to the fact that we now get a foundation law in New Norse, I think it is important that we eventually also get the Constitution in Sami. After the setting, it seemed that this would be an accident. It didn't look like there was going to be a majority for anything. We can now see that it was just a near-accident, and that the Right also finally realized the defeat and voting for, among other things. on the basis of a broad public commitment. That's why this will be a good day, with a better basis for the people's rule, in the spirit of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1165	Of all the problems that have to be found here to land, I would say that the language of the Constitution is of the smallest. The Constitution and its language have worked very well – yes, so well that we celebrate it with bragging and bram this year. We are very proud of our Constitution. There are clearly good arguments to change the language of the Constitution. We've heard a lot of them here today, a lot of good arguments. But there are also many arguments against changing the language. Many of the speakers in today's debate, I think almost all the main speakers, showed in their contributions to the 200th anniversary of the Constitution. There is no good argument alone to change the language of the Constitution. Many have gone so far in the debate that they have argued that the language of the Constitution is a democratic problem. In that case, it is serious. But if it's a democratic problem, why wasn't it 50, 30 or 10 years ago? Why was the Constitution not amended then, if this was a major democratic problem? The thing is, it's a good time this year, in the year of the Constitutional Jubilee, to change the language. But in my opinion – and I've been claiming that for all the years I've been elected to the Stortinget – changing the Constitution is a serious and important act, and it's too important to be just one of the courts in a constitutional anniversary menu. I am therefore going to vote against all the proposals to change the language of the Constitution. Today, as I have done so many times in my political function, I will comfort myself with Ibsen's Dr. Stockmann's words in A People's Enemy: ‘the strongest man in the world, he is the one who stands most alone.’ [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1179	2014 is a brand year in Norwegian history, and today is also a historic brand day for democracy. The fact that we now have a linguistic renewal of the Constitution means, as many have been in, much more than aesthetic. This is an important project of democracy. It has been claimed here today that language is power. I fully agree with that. An important part of Norwegian democracy is that power should be distributed equally among all citizens in Norway. But if you want the equal distribution of power, it's also a prerequisite that the citizens who are to protect the Constitution actually understand the Constitution. We're adding that up to today. At the same time, it is important that we retain the dignity that the Constitution deserves, and I am glad that now it seems that we can get a majority for Vinje's version. When we first reach a decision in this matter, I am also very pleased that the Right now has come, so that we get a solid decision in this room. We don't do any actual treatment of the Constitution today, but we ensure that most people actually understand what it says, and they are guaranteed the rights they actually have. This is a democracy project. I would like to thank Vinje and especially Carl I. Hagen for their long-standing struggle that we now get a constitution that people understand, and that we thus contribute to strengthening democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1190	Based on the debate we have now had and to which I have listened very well – a debate that has been much more topical than most debates on Stortinget, because it gives a result that is quite different from what the vote says – I want and need to add some comments to what I said about combining Vinje's book goals version with the New Norwegian version of the Graver Committee, which is not particularly elegant. I want to expand the interpretation needs that we are facing here. As many have said, the Nynorsk version is clearly more modern in both language and word and expression, compared to the book target version. The novel version is going to become the primary language version of everyone in practical use, simply because it is easier to understand. The book target version of the wines has to be interpreted. I'll do four examples of that. First of all, in Section 17, Vinje’s version is entitled ‘Devices’, which in the version of the Graver Committee is called ‘provisional laws’. In § 74 it is called ‘deliberation’ in Vinje’s version, while in Gravers it is called ‘debate’. Paragraph 105 states in Vinje’s version: «Requires the state’s goal», while in Gravers it says: «Requires the consideration of society». Finally, Section 93, where there are issues of giving sovereignty in a limited area, states in Vinje’s version: ‘should be entitled to exercise powers’, while in the Graver Committee they replace ‘competitions’ with ‘rights of counsel’. These examples show the need for explanations for the Vinje version, as opposed to the Graver version. I just want to finish by saying that I am pleased with all the support that it has been in this case for a complete linguistic renewal. Unfortunately, the book was late in shape — to put it in the sports language. One came too late in the form of securing the place that the new witch now legally gets. The centre party will continue to work to ensure that the GIMP library version of the Graver selection is texted later. It is not too late to work for the good cause, and as I said, the Constitution should be able to ‘hang up’ for young people both in book goals and in new Norwegian, so that young people understand it, and that there will be a living document for the benefit of our tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1201	At first of all, I think this is a day when the Storting can be proud of itself – proud of itself because you've managed to put a lot of meatloaf aside. One has realized, after the setting was available, that here one should take some time and try to get together to see if we could just get some of the changes that were going to be linguistic, and that there has been a need and a wish for. We saw an example of that just before the weekend. I want to pay great tribute to both the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and also the Advancement Party, my own party, which is just so important to try to create a majority in order to get things to happen. Today, there's a big deal where this can actually happen now – and there's a two-thirds majority for a change. I'm very proud of that, among other things. on behalf of myself as a staging representative in this room. I would like to thank Finn-Erik Vinje very much, and Mr. Hagen, who was formerly responsible for the big business, because in many ways this is what we have here today, the result of the work that they have done in many ways. I'll give great honor for it, because it shows that it benefits with commitment. You can make things happen if you just spend the time you need. Even I'm very careful to go into and change the Constitution, but it's about the content. We're not changing the content of the Constitution today; we're going into the linguistics. I have no problem with that. Rather, on the contrary, time is ripe to do this. Then the 200th anniversary is the right time to do it. Some people have said that there may be some words that some people might have problems with in an early phase. We have lived with the language of the Constitution since 1903. That is the language that has been up to 2014, and I think it has actually been possible to find a solution in the cases where it has been necessary, related to an interpretation of the Constitution. But the time was ripe. The majority and those who have stood behind – in the control committee and in the negotiations that have taken place – have done their job. Now it is up to us as a group to ensure that we vote through the linguistic renewal of the Constitution – to the joy of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1212	So the debate is on case No. 1 closed, and pursuant to the adopted agenda, voting will be called.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e1221	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Helge Thorheim on behalf of the Progress Party. When we are to vote, the President will propose that the following order be followed: The vote will begin at the end of the third part of the vote on the motion for a resolution. Then there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2 separately. Finally, I and II of the proposal for a decision of the Committee shall be added together. No objections have been raised to the President's proposal and that is what will be done. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party are behind the position III, and that is therefore the primary position of these parties. The same parties have announced that they will support the proposal No. 1 and 2 subsidiary. It is therefore necessary that we vote on the third vote before we vote on the motion for a resolution. 1 and 2. The left has notified that they support III. We are then going to vote on the third vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e3135	No representatives were absent. We shall vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2, from the Progress Party, and it is voted separately over each of these proposals. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:21 [[2011-2012]] The draft Constitution was as follows: ‘Norges Rikes Constitution is replaced by the following: Kingdom of Norway Constitution given in the Parliamentary Assembly of Eidsvoll on 17 May 1814, as amended, at the latest by the Constitution of 21 May 2012. A About State Form § 1 The Kingdom of Norway is a free, independent, indivisible and inalienable realm. Its form of government is restricted and hereditary monarchy. § 2 The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights. B About the Exercising Power, the King and the Royal Family and About Religion § 3 The executive is with the king or with the queen, if she has acquired the crown in accordance with the provisions of Section 6, Section 7 or Section 48 of this Constitution. When the executive is thus with the queen, she has all the rights and obligations that this Constitution and the laws of the country hold by the king. § 4 The King shall always confess to the Evangelical Lutheran religion. § 5 The king's person is holy; he cannot be charged or accused. Responsibility rests with his advice. § 6 The succession is linear, so that only in legal marriage born children of the king or queen or of one who is himself heirs can inherit, and that the closer line goes ahead of the remover and the older in the line ahead of the younger. Heirs also include the unborn, who immediately occupies his proper place in the line of inheritance when he or she is born into the world. However, no one who is not born in the straight descending line from the last reigning king or queen or from his brother or sister, or himself is his brother or sister. When a prince or princess is born to Norway's crown, his or her name and period of birth shall be declared first-rate magnification and shall be recorded in its record. However, for those born earlier than 1971, Section 6 of this Constitution applies as it was adopted on 18 November 1905. However, for those born earlier than 1990, men go ahead of women. § 7 If no prince or princess is heir to, the king may propose his successor to the Stortinget, who has the right to decide the election if the king's suggestion is not accepted. § 8 The king's age of authority is determined by law. As soon as the king reaches his legal age, he declares himself to be a public authority. § 9 As soon as the king, who is authoritative, joins the government, he takes the following oath to the Storting: «I promise and swear to will rule the Kingdom of Norway in accordance with its constitution and laws, so true help me God Almighty and All-Knowing!» Is nothing great at the time gathered, the oath is laid down in writing in the council and is solemnly repeated by the king on the first staging. § 10 [[Repealed by decision. 14 March 1908.]] The king shall live within the kingdom, and he shall not, without the consent of the Great One, stay outside the kingdom for more than six months at a time, unless he, for his own person, will have lost the right to the crown. The King may not receive any other crown or government without the consent of the Grand Duchy, to which two thirds of the votes are required. § 12 The King himself elects a council of Norwegian citizens entitled to vote. This Council shall consist of a Prime Minister and at least seven other members. The king distributes the business among the members of the government as he deems it proper. In addition to the customary members of the Council of State, the king may convene other Norwegian citizens, but no members of the Stortinget. Spouses, parents and children or two siblings may not have seats in the Council of State at the same time. § 13 During the king's journeys within the kingdom, he may transfer the government of the kingdom to the government. This shall lead the government in the king's name and on his behalf. It shall comply inviolably with the provisions of this Constitution as well as with the specific corresponding regulations, as communicated by the King in the instructions. Business is determined by voting, whereby, in the event of equal voting, the Prime Minister or in his absence the first of the present members of the Government shall have two votes. If the matters so decided by the Council of State have to report to the King. § 14 The King may appoint State Secretaries to assist the members of the Government in the execution of their business outside the Council of State. Each State Secretary shall act on behalf of the member of the Council of State to which he or she is linked, in so far as he or she decides. § 15 Anyone who is a member of the Government shall be obliged to submit his removal request after the Storting has taken a decision on the mistrust of the State Council concerned either on its own or to the General Council of State. The king is obliged to grant such a removal request. Where the Storting has taken a decision on mistrust, only the operations necessary for the proper performance of the duties may be carried out. § 16 All the inhabitants of the kingdom have free religious practice. The Norwegian Church, an Evangelical Lutheran Church, remains the Church of Norway and is supported as such by the State. Detailed provisions on the Church's system are laid down by Law. All religious and life-view societies shall be supported in the same line. § 17 The King may grant and abolish provisions relating to trade, customs duties, commercial routes and public administration and regulation; however, they may not conflict with the constitution and the laws given by the Stortinget in accordance with the following Sections 76, 77, 78 and 79. They apply provisional to the next Storting. § 18 The king generally imposes the taxes and charges imposed by the Storting. § 19 The King wakes up the use and management of state properties and regiments by the Storting and the most useful way for society. Article 20 The king has the right to pardon the perpetrators after the verdict has been passed. The offender may choose to receive the king's mercy or to submit to the sentence. In the cases brought by the Stortinget before the Court of Justice, no other pardon may take place but an exemption from the death penalty, unless the Stortinget has given its consent to anything else. § 21 The king elects and appoints, after having heard his council, all civil and military officials. These shall take place before appointment, swear or, if they are by law exempted from oath, solemnly to the institution and the king's obedience and fidelity; however, the officials who are not Norwegian citizens may by law be released from that duty. The royal princes must not defy civil office. § 22 The Prime Minister and the other members of the Council of State as well as the State Secretaries may be dismissed by the King without prior judgment after having heard the opinion of the Council of State. The same shall apply to officials employed by the offices of the Council of State or by diplomacy or consular service, civilians of superiority, directors of regiments and other military corps, commanders of fasteners and chief commanders of warships. Whether the pension should be granted to the so-called dismissed officials is determined by the next accumulation. Meanwhile, the two thirds enjoy their former gas. Other officials may only be suspended by the king and shall then be brought to justice immediately. But they must not be set aside unless they are judged and not moved against their will. All officials may be dismissed without prior judgment when they have reached an age limit laid down by law. It may be decided by law that certain non-jurisdictional officials may be appointed on an annual basis. Article 23 The king may award orders to whom he wishes to reward excellent profits, and this must be made public. But the king may not declare any rank or title other than that of any office. The Order does not relieve any of the common duties and burdens of its citizens, nor does it confer the right of priority on the officials of that State. The officials dismissed in grace retain the title and rank they held in office. This does not, however, apply to the members of the Government or to the State Secretaries. No personal or mixed hereditary privileges may be granted to any person in the past. § 24 The king chooses and deports to his own reputation his court and his court officials. § 25 The king has the highest command of the land and sea powers of the kingdom. It shall not be increased or reduced without the consent of the Storing. It must not be left in the service of foreign powers, and no warmen of foreign powers, except relief troops against enemy assaults, must be allowed access to the kingdom without the consent of the Great One. The protection of the land and the other troops that cannot be attributed to the liners must never be used outside the borders of the State without the consent of the Grand Duchy. § 26 The king has the right to summon troops, start war in defense of the country and end peace, enter into and abolish alliances, send and receive envoys. Treaties on matters of particular importance and, in any case, treaties whose implementation under the Constitution necessitates a new law or a decision to collapse will only become binding once the Storing has given its consent. Article 27 All members of the Council of State shall, when they are not legally due, be present in the Council of State. No decision shall be taken where no more than half of the number of members is present. § 28 Settings on appointments and other matters of importance shall be held in the Council of State by the member to whom they belong, and matters shall be handled by him or her in accordance with the decision of the Council of State. However, actual military command matters, to the extent decided by the king, may be exempted from state council treatment. § 29 Forbid a council of states to meet and present the matters of his or her subjects, these shall be presented by another council of states which the king constitutes. If so many are prevented from meeting legally that no more than half of the specified number of members are present, other men or women in the necessary number shall be constituted to occupy the Council of State. § 30 The Council of State shall keep a record of all the matters under negotiation. The diplomatic matters decided in secret by the Government are included in a separate protocol. The same applies to the military command matters decided by the Government in secret. Anyone who has a seat in the Council of State is obliged, with boldness, to express his opinion, which the king is obliged to hear. But this one is reserved to make decisions according to its own reputation. If any member of the state council finds that the king's decision is contrary to the state form or the laws of the state, it is an obligation to make strong counter-representations and to add its opinion to the protocol. The person who has not so declared his protest is deemed to have agreed with the King and is responsible for this, as determined since then, and may be brought before the Court of Justice by the Stortinge. § 31 All decisions made by the king shall be countersigned in order to be valid. In military command cases, the decisions of the person who has delayed matters are countersigned by the Prime Minister or, if he or she has not been present, by the first of the members of the Council present. Article 32 The decisions taken by the Government in the absence of the King shall be made in the name of the King and signed by the Government. § 33 (Repealed by decision. 12th Aug. [[24. Oct.]] § 34 The King provides for titles for those entitled to the crown. Article 35 As soon as the heir to the throne has reached the age of 18, he or she is entitled to take a seat in the council, without, however, voice or responsibility. § 36 One of Norway's crowned prince or princess shall not marry without the king's permission. Nor shall he or she receive any other crown or government without the consent of the King and the Storting. Two thirds of the votes shall be required for the consent of the Grand Duchy. If he or she violates this, he or she loses the right to the throne of Norway as well as its descendants. § 37 The royal princes and princesses shall not be held responsible for their persons other than the king or for whom he shall judge them. § 38 [[Repealed by decision. Nov 18th 1905.]] If the king and the successor of the throne have yet to die, the council shall immediately convene the Grand Government. § 40 Until the Grand Government is assembled and has appointed the government under the king's minor age, the Government's Board of Governors shall be chaired in accordance with the Constitution. § 41 If the king is absent from the kingdom without being in the field, or if he is so sick that he cannot care for the government, he who is closest to the heir to the throne shall manage the government as the king's temporary exercise, provided that he or she has attained the age of authority prescribed for the king. Otherwise, the Government Board of Governors of the State is to be held. § 42 [[Repealed by decision. Nov 18th 1905.]] The choice of guardians to govern the government of the unauthorized king shall be made by the Stortinget. § 44 The prince or princess who, in the cases set out in paragraph 41, is in charge of the government, must take the following oath in writing to the Grand Duke: "I promise and swear to be in charge of the government in accordance with the constitution and the laws, so truly help me God Almighty and All-Knowing!" Not to be magnified at that time, to be sworn in by the state council, and to be held since the next bigotry. The prince or princess who once took the oath does not repeat it later. § 45 As soon as the government of the foremen ceases, they shall make an accounting for it to the king and to the Stortinge. § 46 If, in accordance with Paragraph 39, he does not immediately convoke the Stortinget, then it is for the Supreme Court, as an unconditional duty, as soon as four weeks have elapsed, to arrange for this convocation. § 47 The Board of Directors of the Order of the unauthorized king should, if both parents are dead and none of them have left any written provision on this matter, be determined by the Stortinget. § 48 If the royal tribe is extinct and no successor of the throne is carved out, then a new king or queen shall be chosen by the Storting. In the meantime, according to § 40, the exercise of power is in question. C On civil law and legislative power § 49 The people exercise legislative power at Stortinget. § 50 Voters in roll-call elections are Norwegian citizens, men or women, who have reached the age of 18 at the latest in the year of their election. However, the extent to which Norwegian citizens residing outside the kingdom on election day but meeting the above conditions are entitled to vote is determined by law. Rules on the voting rights of otherwise entitled persons who on election day are manifestly suffering from serious mental impairment or reduced awareness may be laid down by law. § 51 Rules on the headcounting and on the introduction of voting rights in the number of persons are laid down by law. § 52 [[Repealed by grapple beast. Oct 26th. 1954.]] Voting rights are taped (a) in the case of convictions for criminal offences, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on this subject; § 54 Elections shall be held every four years. They shall be completed by the end of September. § 55 Elections shall be governed in the manner laid down by law. Disputes concerning voting rights shall be decided by the Board of Governors, whose jurisdiction may be extended to the Grand Duchy. Article 56 [[Repealed by grapple beast. 23 March 1972.]] The number of grossing-up representatives to be elected shall be 169. The Kingdom is divided into 19 electoral districts. 150 of the major representatives will be elected as district representatives and the other 19 as cohesion representatives. Each electoral district shall have one equalisation mandate. The number of grossing-up representatives to be selected from each constituency is determined on the basis of a calculation of the ratio of the number of inhabitants of each district to the total number of inhabitants of the kingdom and its area, when each inhabitant gives 1 point and each square kilometer gives 1.8 points. The calculation is to be made every eight years. Detailed provisions on the division of the kingdom into electoral districts and the division of the Grand Duchy mandates into electoral districts are laid down by law. § 58 The elections are held separately for each municipality. In the elections, there will be a direct vote of representatives of the local authorities with alternates for the entire electoral district. § 59 The choice of district representatives is made as proportional elections and the mandates are distributed among the parties according to the rules set out below. The total number of votes for each party in each electoral district is to be divided by 1,4; 3; 5, 7 and so on until the number of votes is divided as many times as the number of mandates that the lot can be expected to receive. The lot which, after the above, receives the largest quotient shall be assigned the first mandate, while the next mandate shall be the lot having the second largest quotient, and thus until all mandates are allocated. List bindings are not allowed. The balancing mandates shall be distributed between the parties participating in the balancing process on the basis of the ratio of the total votes of the individual batches throughout the kingdom in order to achieve the greatest possible proportionality between the lots. In the case of a corresponding application for the whole of the kingdom and for the Parties participating in the cohesion of the rules on the allocation of district mandates, indicate the total number of large-scale mandates to be held by each lot. The lots shall then be allocated so many equalisation mandates that, in addition to the district mandates already allocated, they constitute as large a number of large-scale mandates as that lot shall have after the above indication. Where a lot has already received a greater number of mandates in the allocation of the district mandates than the number of mandates to be given after the above mentioned entry, a new allocation of the balancing mandates shall be made exclusively between the other lots, excluding the number of votes and the district mandates achieved by the former lot. No batch may be assigned any balancing mandate unless it has received at least 4 per cent of the total number of votes for the whole kingdom. Detailed provisions on the distribution of the balancing mandates of the parties in the electoral districts are laid down by law. § 60 The extent to which, and the forms in which, voting rights may be issued without personal attendance at the elections shall be determined by law. § 61 No one may be elected as a representative without having the right to vote. § 62 However, the officials employed by the offices of the Government, the State Secretaries and the political advisers may not be elected as representatives. The same applies to the members of the Supreme Court and to the officials employed by the diplomatic or consular services. The members of the Government may not meet as representatives of the Stortinget for as long as they have seats in the Council of State. Nor can the State Secretaries meet as representatives as long as they concur with their duties, and the political advisers at the offices of the Council of State cannot meet at the Stortinge for as long as they hold their posts. § 63 Anyone elected to represent shall be obliged to receive the election, unless he or she: (a) has been elected outside the electoral district in which he/she is entitled to vote; (b) has met as a representative on all occasions after the previous election; (d) is a member of a political party and has been elected on a electoral list drawn from another party; Rules governing the time and manner in which the person entitled to refuse shall exercise this right shall be laid down by law. It shall also be determined by law within the time and manner in which one is elected representative of two or more electoral districts shall make a declaration of which choice he or she will receive. § 64 Selected representatives shall be provided with powers whose legality is assessed by the Stortinget. § 65 Any representative and called representative shall receive compensation from the State Treasury determined by law for travel expenses to and from Stortinget and from Stortinget to his home and back during holidays of at least 14 days. In addition, he or she receives compensation, determined by law, for his or her participation in the Stortinget. § 66 The representatives are on their journey to and from the Storting and during their stay freed from personal encroachment, unless they are arrested in public crimes. Nor can they be held responsible outside the Storting Assembly for their expressed opinions there. After the order adopted, any person shall be obliged to rectify himself. § 67 The representatives selected in the above manner constitute the Kingdom of Norway. § 68 The majority generally meet on the first working day of October each year in the capital of the kingdom, unless the king chooses another city in the kingdom because of extraordinary circumstances, such as hostile invasions or infectious diseases. Such a provision must then be made known on a timely basis. § 69 When the Storting is not assembled, it may be convened by the King if he deems it necessary. § 70 [[Repealed by grapple beast. 13 July 1990 No 550.]] The members of the Grand Duchy function for four consecutive years. § 72 [[Repealed by grapple beast. 13 July 1990 No 550.]] The majority appoints a president, five vice-presidents and two secretaries. Storing may not be held unless at least half of its members are present. Constitutional proposals may be dealt with only if at least two thirds of the members of the Storting are present. § 74 As soon as the Stortinge has formed, the King or the one he appoints opens, its negotiations with a speech in which he informs it of the state of the kingdom and the conditions against which he particularly wants to direct the attention of the Stortinge. No deliberation shall take place in the presence of the king. Once the negotiations of the Grand Duchy have been opened, the Prime Minister and the Council of State have the right to meet in the Grand Duchy and in line with its own members, without, however, voting, participate in the negotiations to the extent that they are kept open, but in the cases negotiated for closed doors, only to the extent that the Grand Duchy has to be present. § 75 It belongs to the Storting (a) to give and abolish laws; to impose taxes, levies, customs duties and other public burdens, which, however, do not last until 31 December of the following year, unless they are expressly renewed by a new increase; (b) to open loans to the Kingdom's credit; (c) to supervise the national monetary system; (d) to grant the sums necessary to cover the expenditure of the State; (e) to determine the annual amount to be paid to the king of his court; and to determine the annual amount to be paid to the governor of his court; and to determine the royal family's apancy, which, however, must not exist in real estate; (f) to submit to the minutes of the Council of State and all public reports and papers; (g) to communicate to the governors and to the counties of the king of the State's office, which shall not be liable to render the accounts administered by the State, and to be reviewed by the authorities, of the Member States, of the Member States, of the Member States, of the President of the Commission, of the Commission, of the Commission, of the President of the Commission, of the President of the Commission of the Commission, of the Commission, of the Court of the Court of the Commission, of the Commission of Auditors, of the Court of the Court of the European Communities, of Auditors, and of Auditors, of the European Communities, of the Member States, of the European Communities, of the Member States, of the Member States, and of the Member States, of the Commission of the Member States, of the Member States, of the Member States of the Commission of the Member States, of the Commission of the Commission, of the Commission of the European Communities of the Member States, of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States; § 76 Each law shall first be proposed on the Grand Duchy either by its own members or by the Government of a Council of State. After adoption of the proposal, a new declaration shall take place in the Grand Duchy, which either approves or rejects it. In the latter case, the proposal, together with the comments made by the Stortinget, shall be re-examined under consideration by the Stortinget, which either proposes the proposal or adopts it with the said observations. There must be at least three days between each such deliberation. § 77 When, on the other hand, a legislative decision two times has been endorsed by the Stortinget, it is sent to the king with a request for his sanction. § 78 If the King accepts the law, he will give it his signature, thereby making it lawful. If he does not accept it, he sends it back to Stortinget with the statement that he does not currently think it appropriate to punish it. In this case, the decision must no longer be made of the total amount of the sum of the aggregates presented to the king. § 79 If a law decision has been taken unaltered by two majorities, composed after two successive elections and separated by at least two intermediate magistrates, without any discrepancy in the meantime between the first and the last assumption being made by any majority, and it is then submitted to the king with a request that His Majesty will not refuse a legislative decision of his sanction, as the Stortinget, after the most mature suggestion, considers beneficial, it will be the law even if the king's sanction is not given within the Stortinget. § 80 The payment shall remain overall for as long as it deems it necessary, and shall cease the negotiations when it has completed its business. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, negotiations may be resumed, but they shall expire no later than the last working day of September. Within this time, the king shall communicate his resolution to those legislative decisions which have not already been decided, either by confirming them or by rejecting them. All those whom he does not explicitly assume are considered rejected by him. § 81 All laws are made in the name of the King, under the seal of the Kingdom of Norway and in the following words: «We N.N. [[the provisions of § 79 except]] make known: that We have been presented with the decision of the Storting, of the date as follows: [[following the decision]] § 82 The Government shall communicate to the Storting all the information necessary for the handling of the matters it submits. No member of the Government must provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or its organs. § 83 The Grand Duchy may obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court on legal matters. § 84 The size is kept open to open doors and its negotiations are published at the pressure, except in cases where the opposite is determined by a majority of votes. § 85 Anyone who obeys a command whose purpose is to interfere with the freedom and security of the Great Britain is thereby guilty of betrayal of the country of origin. D About the Judicial Power § 86 The national court first and last condemns the members of the Council of State, the Supreme Court or the Grand Duchy for criminal or other unlawful offences when they have breached their constitutional obligations. The detailed rules for the prosecution of the Storting pursuant to this paragraph are laid down by law. However, no shorter limitation period than 15 years may be set for the right to invoke liability in the event of a court action. The Judges of the Court of Justice are 6 members elected by the Grand Duchy and the 5 members elected by the senior, permanent members of the Supreme Court, including the Registrar of the Supreme Court. The size selects the members and alternates for 6 years. A member of the Government or the Storting may not be elected as a member of the Riksrecht. In the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Registrar of the Court of Justice has served. The person who has taken a seat in the Court of Justice who has been elected by the Grand Duchy does not step out of court even if the time for which he or she has been chosen expires before the Court of First Instance has given its final ruling. Nor does a Supreme Court judge who is a member of the Riksrecht step out of court even if he or she resigns as a member of the Supreme Court. § 87 The detailed rules governing the composition of the Riksrecht and its proceedings are laid down by law. § 88 Supreme Court judges in the last instance. However, restrictions on access to the decision of the Supreme Court may be determined by law. The Supreme Court shall consist of a judge and at least four other members. § 89 [[Repealed by grapple beast. 17th of Dec. 1920; cf. grlbest. 7 July 1913.]] The judgment of the Supreme Court may in no case be relied on. § 91 No one can be appointed a member of the Supreme Court until he or she is 30 years old. E General provisions § 92 Only Norwegian citizens, men or women who speak the language of the country must be appointed to the State; and (a) were either born in the State of parents who at the time were Norwegian nationals (b) or were born abroad by Norwegian parents who at that time were not nationals of any other country (c) or are subsequently resident in the State for 10 years (d) or are naturalised by the Stortinget; However, others can be assigned to teachers at the University and the learned schools, to doctors, and to consuls in foreign places. § 93 In order to ensure international peace and security or to promote international legal order and cooperation, the Grand Duchy may, by a three-quarters majority, agree that an international association to which Norway is a member or a member shall have the right to exercise, in a limited area, powers which, by virtue of this Constitution, are otherwise vested in the authorities of the State, but not the power to amend that Constitution. In order to give consent to the Storting, as in the examination of constitutional proposals, at least two thirds of its members should be present. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to participation in an international association whose decisions only have purely international legal effect for Norway. § 94 A new general civil code and criminal code shall be provided at the first or, if this is not possible, at other appropriate level. Until then, the current laws of the State will enter into force in so far as they do not conflict with this Constitution or with the provisional provisions which may in the meantime be given. The current permanent taxes also remain until the next accumulation. § 95 No dispensations, protectories, moratoriums or upliftments shall be granted after the entry into force of the new general law. § 96 No one can be judged without under law or punished without under judgment. A painful interrogation must not take place. § 97 No law shall apply retroactively. § 98 With athletes paid to the court officers, no fees to the treasury should be linked. § 99 No one shall be imprisoned unless in legal cases and in the manner prescribed by the law. For unjustified arrest or illegal residence, the person in question is liable to the prisoner. The government is not entitled to use military power against the citizens of the State, but in accordance with the forms specified in the law, unless some assembly has to disrupt public order and it is not immediately separated after the articles of the national law relating to rebellion have been read three times for it by the civil authority. § 100 Freedom of expression should take place. No person may be held legally responsible for having communicated or received information, ideas and messages unless defenders are able to oppose the grounds of freedom of expression in the search for truth, democracy and the free formation of the individual. Legal liability should be provided for by law. Bold statements about the government and any other object are permitted by any. whereas it is only possible to set clearly defined limits to this right where, in particular, overriding reasons justify its refusal to the grounds for freedom of expression; Pre-sensory and other preventive measures may not be used unless this is necessary to protect children and young people from the harmful effects of live images. No letter censorship can be set up outside institutions. Everyone has the right to have access to the documents of the State and local authorities and to follow the negotiations in judicial and elected bodies. Restrictions on this right may be laid down by law in the interests of privacy and other overriding reasons. It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate an open and informed public conversation. § 101 New and permanent restrictions on nutrition freedom must not be imposed on anyone for the future. § 102 House surveys must not take place except in criminal cases. § 103 Derogation shall not be granted to those who are subsequently bankrupt. § 104 Soil and blockage can in no case be broken. § 105 If the state's discretion requires any person to give up his movable or immovable property for public use, he or she should have full compensation from the State Treasury. § 106 As well as the purchase price and the income of the goods which have benefited from the spirituality, shall be used only for the benefit of the clergy and for the benefit of the information. The properties of Mild Foundations shall only be used for their benefit. § 107 The right to vote and to vote shall not be waived. The detailed conditions for its existence in support of the State and for the benefit of the Land Government are laid down by the following first or second aggregate. § 108 No counties, barons, stags and feudal commissions must be established for the time being. § 109 Every country's citizen is generally equally obliged for a certain period of time to protect his or her country of origin, irrespective of birth or wealth. The application of this principle and its limitations should be determined by law. § 110 It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the performance of their duties by any capable person. Detailed provisions on the right of participation of employees at their place of employment are laid down by law. § 110a It is up to the national authorities to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami peoples. § 110b Everyone has the right to an environment that ensures health and to a nature whose productive capacity and diversity are preserved. The resources of nature shall be made available on the basis of a long-term and comprehensive consideration to safeguard this right also for the posterity. In order to safeguard this right under the preceding subparagraph, citizens are entitled to knowledge of the state of the natural environment and of the effects of planned and implemented interventions in nature. The authorities of the State shall lay down detailed rules for the implementation of these basic principles. § 110c It is up to the authorities of the State to respect and safeguard human rights. Detailed rules for the implementation of the Treaties shall be laid down by law. § 111 The form and colours of the Norwegian flag are determined by law. § 112 If experience shows that any part of the Constitution of this Kingdom of Norway should be amended, proposals shall be made to that effect on the first, second or third accumulation following a new election and published at the time of printing. But it's up to the first, second or third magnification after the next election to decide whether the proposed change should take place or not. However, such a change must never contradict the principles of this Constitution, but only concern such modifications in some provisions that do not change the spirit of this Constitution, and two-thirds of the Grand Duchy should agree to such a change. Such a provision of fundamental law shall be signed by the President and Secretary of the Grand Duchy and shall be sent to the King for publication at the time of publication as the applicable provision of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e3870	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. Furthermore, the Right Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e3873	SV has also announced that we support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e3878	The Swedish authorities have also announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way. The President proposes that it be voted on by roll call and it is deemed to be adopted. The President will ask the representatives to answer in a loud and clear manner for the purposes of registration, and there should be peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e3900	No representatives were absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e3903	We shall then vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:22 [[2011-2012]] The draft Constitution was as follows: ‘The Constitution of Norway is replaced by the following in new Norwegian: Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway, given in the Parliamentary Assembly of Eidsvoll on 17 May 1814, as it sounds after recent changes, the latest Constitutional Decision of 21 May 2012. Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway A About State Format § 1 The Kingdom of Norway is a free, independent, indivisible and independent kingdom. The form of government is bounded and hereditary monarchic. § 2 The basis of value should still be our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall safeguard democracy, the rule of law and human rights. B About the Exercising Power, About the King and the Royal Family and About Religion § 3 The exercise of power is with the King, or with the Queen if she has received the crown according to the rules of § 6, § 7 or § 48 of this Constitution. When the exercising power is so with the queen, it has all the rights and obligations of the king under this constitution and the laws of the country. § 4 The King shall always acknowledge the Evangelical Lutheran religion. § 5 The King's person is holy; he cannot be charged or blamed for anything. The responsibility lies on his council. § 6 Inheritance is linear. Only children of a queen or a king, or of someone who has the right of inheritance, can inherit, and the child must be born in legal marriage. The nearest line runs the remote line, and the older one in the line leads the younger one. The unborn also has inheritance, and takes its place in the succession as soon as she or he comes to the world. However, inheritance has only those from parents to the last reigning queen or king. When a princess or prince with the right to inherit the crown of Norway is born, the name and date of birth shall be made known to the Stortinget and entered in the Protocol there. However, for those born before 1971, Section 6 applies as it was adopted on 18 November 1905. For those who were born before 1990, however, it is true that you are going to lead a woman. § 7 If there are no princesses or princes of inheritance, the king may propose successors to the Storting, which may decide the election if the king's submission is not met. § 8 The official age of the king is determined by law. As soon as the king reaches the legal age, he shines authoritatively. § 9 As soon as the king, as the authoritative, assumes with the government, he makes this oath of the Greatness: "I promise and swear that I will reign the Kingdom of Norway in accordance with the constitution and the laws, so truly help me God Almighty and All-knowing!" If there is no accumulation at that time, the oath will be given in writing to the government, and the king will take it up again on the first big pile. § 10 [[Repealed by Decision of the Constitutional Court of 14 March 1908]] The King shall bow in the kingdom and shall not, without the consent of the Stortinge, be outside the kingdom more than six months at a time without the personal loss of the crown. The King may not accept another crown or government without the consent of the Storting, and until two thirds of the voices are required. § 12 The King himself chooses a council of citizens of Norway. In this Council, there shall be a Prime Minister and at least seven other members. The king distributes the tasks among the members of the government as he thinks it is reasonable. To sit in the Council of State next to the permanent members, the King may, in exceptional circumstances, summon other Norwegian citizens, but no members of the Stortinget. Husbands, parents and children or two siblings may not have seats in the Council of State at the same time. § 13 For the time the king travels in the kingdom, he can leave the government of the kingdom to the council. This shall lead the government in the king's name and on his behalf. It shall be indelibly in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution as well as with the specific instructions given by the King in accordance with them. The cases will be resolved with roasting. If the voices are equal, the prime minister or, if he's gone, the first of the state councils present has two voices. The Government shall notify the King of the cases thus decided. § 14 The King may appoint State Secretaries to assist the members of the Government in their actions outside the Government. Each State Secretary shall act on behalf of the member of the Government to which he or she is attached, as far as this member is determined. § 15 Each member of the Government is obliged to deliver a divorce application after the Storting has taken a decision on the mistrust of this Council of State or of the entire Council of State. The king shall resign from such an application. Once the Storting has taken a decision on mistrust, the State Council can only carry out the necessary actions for defence. § 16 All the inhabitants of the kingdom have free religious practice. The Norwegian Church, an Evangelical Lutheran Church, stands by layers like the Norwegian People's Church and is supported as it is by the state. Further information on whether church creation is laid down by law. Every belief and life-view society shall be faced with a level playing field. § 17 The King may give and repeal provisional laws on trade, customs, trade and public administration and regulation. They must not contradict the constitution or the laws of Stortinget. They're valid for the next magnification. § 18 The King usually collects the taxes and charges fixed by the Storting. § 19 The King sees to it that the estates and regimes of the State are used and administered as the Storting has established, and in the way that is most useful to society. Article 20 The king has the right in the government to grant mercy to criminals after they have fallen. The criminal may choose to accept the king's mercy or take the sentence of condemnation. In matters that the Stortinget travels before the Riksrecht, there can be no mercy other than exemption from the condemned death penalty, unless the Stortinget has given consent to anything else. § 21 The king well and appoints all civil and military officials after hearing the Council of State. Before the insertion, they shall swear or, by law, they shall be exempt from taking ownership, from the solemn promise of obedience and the threat to the Constitution and the King. Non-Norwegian officials may be exempted from this obligation. The royal princesses and the princes cannot have civil office. § 22 The Prime Minister, the other members of the Government and the State Secretaries can, without judgment, be separated by the King after he has heard what the Government thinks about it. The same shall apply to the officials appointed by the Council of State or by the extra-territorial bodies, civil supremacy persons, the chief of regiments and other military corps, commanders of fastenings and commander-in-chiefs of warships. If officials who are so retired are to receive a pension, they will be determined by the next majority. In the meantime, the two thirds of the pay they had before. Other officials may only be suspended by the king and shall then be put to the vote immediately before the courts. They cannot be set aside unless they are determined or transferred against their will. All officials may be segregated without them when they have reached an age limit laid down by law. It can be established by law that certain officials, but not judges, may be appointed for years. Article 23 The King may give orders to whomever he wills, to pass for advance notice, which must be made public. The king cannot assign any rank and title other than that of an official. It does not exempt anyone from the duties and duties of citizens, nor does it confer the right to government office. Officials who are given the separation in grace are given the title and rank they held in office. This does not apply to the members of the Government or the State Secretaries. No person shall be entitled to inherited special rights, personal or mixed. § 24 The King well and purposed after his own understanding of his court and his court officials. § 25 The king has the highest command of the defence power of the kingdom. This power must not be increased or decreased without the consent of the Storing. She must not be left in the service of the future powers, and no war people from the coming powers, as close as troops to aid the enemy assault, must be dragged into the kingdom without the consent of the Storting. Land protection and other non-linear clusters must never be used outside the national borders without the consent of the Stortinget. § 26 The king has the right to summon troops, start war in defense of the country and end peace, conclude and cancel international agreements, and send and receive messengers. Treaties on matters of particular importance only become binding when the Storting has given its consent. The same applies to all treaties which, after the constitution, cannot be implemented without a new law or a new decision. Article 27 All members of the Government shall meet in the Council of State when they are not legally due. No decision must be taken by the Council of State when there is no such thing as the presence of some of its members. § 28 Recommendations on appointments and other important matters shall be targeted by the Council of State by the member having the field of competence to which they belong. He or she shall handle matters in accordance with the decision of the Council of State. Derogations may be made from the treatment of actual military command matters by the State Council of the King. § 29 If a council of state is prevented by law from meeting and targeting matters which belong to her or his field of expertise, matters shall be determined by another council of state, which the king establishes for it. If legal maturity is prevented from meeting so many people that no more than half of the determined number of members are present, so many other people will be required to sit in the Council of State. § 30 In the Council of State there is a record of all matters being dealt with there. The diplomatic matters decided by the Council of State to keep a secret are included in a specific protocol. The same is true of military command matters that the Government decides to keep secret. Every person in the Council of State has the duty to speak out with boldness. The king has the duty to right it, but can make decisions by his own reputation. If any member of the Council of State believes that the decision of the king is contrary to the state form or the laws of the country, he or she has the duty to strongly protest and to make a statement in the Minutes. Anyone who has not protested in this way is deemed to have been in agreement with the king and is responsible for it, as the side is established, and the Stortinget may appeal to the Court of Justice. § 31 Any decision the king expires, must be countersigned to become valid. In military command matters, decisions shall be countersigned by the target but otherwise by the Prime Minister, and whether the Prime Minister was not present in the Council of State, by the first of the members who were there. Article 32 The decisions taken by the government when the king is not present are issued in the king's name and signed by the government. § 33 [[Repealed by Constitutional Decision of 12 August 1908]] The King provides information on the titles of the people who have the right to the crown. Article 35 As soon as the heir to the throne is 18 years old, he or she has the right to take a seat in the council, but without voice or responsibility. § 36 A princess or a prince with the right to the crown of Norway may not marry without permission from the king. Nor shall he receive another crown or government without the consent of the King and the Stortinget. Consent from Stortinget requires two thirds of the voices. If she or he is acting contrary to this, she misses the subsequent right to the throne of Norway for herself as well as for her successors. § 37 The royal princesses and the princes, for their persons, shall not answer for any other than the king or whom he has set to judge over them. § 38 [[repealed by Decision No 18 November 1905]] If the King dies and the Successor of the Throne is still unauthorized, the Government shall immediately call the Stortinget. § 40 Until the Great Government comes together and sets up the government for the time when the King is a minor, the government of the State shall be in charge of the government, in accordance with the Constitution. § 41 If the king is outside the kingdom without being in the field, or if he is so sick that he cannot take care of the government, the closest heir to the throne shall be to the government that temporarily exercises the king's power, but only as soon as she or he has reached the official age of the king. Otherwise, it is the government that is in charge of the government. § 42 [[repealed by Decision No 18 November 1905]] The size shall select role models to represent the government of the unauthorized king. § 44 The princess, or the prince, who is in charge of the government in the cases mentioned in Paragraph 41, shall make this oath of the Greatness in writing: "I promise and swear that I will stand for the government in accordance with the constitution and the laws, so truly help me God Almighty and All-knowing!" If at this time there will be no staging, the oath will be given in writing to the government, and the page will be sent to the next staging. The princess or the prince who has made the oath, he does not take up again later. § 45 Those who have been temporarily in charge of the government under §§ 40, 41, 43 or 48 shall, as soon as it is over, render an account for it to the King and the Storing. § 46 If the Council of State does not immediately convene the Stortinget according to § 39, the Supreme Court will, as soon as four weeks have passed, have an unconditional obligation to sue for convocation. § 47 The size determined how the appointment of the unauthorized king should be governed if both parents are dead and none of them have left behind a written notice of it. § 48 If the king's set is extinct and no succession of thrones is established, the Stortinget shall choose a new queen or king. In the meantime, § 40 applies to the exercise of power. C On civil law and the rule of law § 49 The people exercise the legislative power through the Storting. § 50 The Norwegian citizens who have reached the age of 18 or are 18 years of age in the year of election are entitled to vote. In which Norwegian citizens on the election day are resident abroad, but otherwise the conditions above, shall have voting rights, shall be laid down by law. Rules on the right of voice for persons who, on the election day, are exposed to serious mental impairment or depressed consciousness may be laid down by law. § 51 Rules on the classification of the grades and on the introduction of the voices in the ratings will be laid down by law. § 52 [[Repealed by the Constitutional Decision of 26 October 1954]] The right to vote misses the person who: a. are convicted of criminal offences, in accordance with the provisions of the law, b. is in the service of a prospective power without the consent of the government. § 54 Valtinga will be held quarter-quarter of a year. They must be finished in September. § 55 The election shall be governed by law. The vote will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. A decision can be made to complain to Stortinget. Article 56 [[Repealed by the Constitutional Decision of 23 March 1972.]] 169 depositors shall be elected. The Kingdom is divided into 19 electoral districts. 150 of the aggregate representatives shall be chosen as district representatives and 19 as subsampling representatives. Each electoral district shall have one equalisation mandate. The number of large-scale representatives to be selected from each electoral district will be calculated on the basis of the population and area of the district relative to the population and area of the whole kingdom. In this calculation, each capita earns 1 point and every square kilometer 1.8 point. The calculation shall be carried out every eight years. Further details on how to divide the kingdom into electoral districts, and how to share large-scale man data between the electoral districts, are laid down by law. § 58 The elections are held separately for each municipality. In the election, there will be the voice directly on deposit representatives with alternates for the entire electoral district. § 59 The choice of district representatives is a proportional choice, and the mandates are divided between the parties according to the rules below. The voice number of each lot in each constituency shall be divided by 1,4; 3; 5; 7, and then after. The first mandate goes to the party which receives the largest quotient, the next mandate goes to the party which receives the second largest quotient, and then goes beyond all mandates. List connection is illegal. For the best possible consistency between voice numbers and representation, equalization data is shared between the batches in the dithering, based on the ratio of voice numbers to the whole kingdom. The total number of large-scale mandates for each batch can be found by applying the rules for the allocation of district mandates corresponding to the whole kingdom of the parties involved in the dithering. Then each party is given so many equalization mandates to the district mandate it has all received, that it together represents as many magnificence mandates as the party has to have in all. If a lot has already received more mandates in the distribution of district man data than it should have had in accordance with the procedure above, the interference man data shall be shared only between the other parties, so that one disregards the voice and district man data received by the first party. No batch can get a smoothing mandate without getting at least 4 percent of the total voice for the entire kingdom. Further details on how to divide the batch equalisation data between the electoral districts will be laid down by law. § 60 Whether and how they can voice without meeting in person at the selection will be determined by law. § 61 No one can be elected as a representative without the right to vote. § 62 Officials appointed by the Council of State offices, other than State Secretaries and Political Advisers, may not be elected as representatives. The same applies to the members of the Supreme Court and the officials added to the extraterritorial service. Members of the Government may not meet at Stortinget as representatives for as long as they have seats in the Government. Nor can the State Secretaries meet as representatives as long as they are in office, and the political advisers at the State Council offices cannot meet at the Stortinget as long as they have their posts. § 63 The person elected to represent shall be obliged to accept the election, if he does not: (a) is elected outside the electoral district in which he or she has the right to vote; (b) has met as a representative on all occasions after the previous elections; (d) is a member of a political party and elected on a electoral list which does not originate from that party. The time limit and the procedure for making the right to refuse the current choice are laid down by law. Similarly, when and how one of the representatives of two or more electoral districts is chosen, the law shall specify which choice he or she will accept. § 64 The authorised representatives may be granted powers. The size determines whether the powers are legal. § 65 All representatives and summon alternates from the state register shall receive statutory evidence of travel expenses to and from the Stortinget and from the Stortinget to the home and return during holidays of at least 14 days. In addition, they are provided with legal evidence for participation in the Storting. § 66 On the journey to and from the Storing and while they are there, representatives are exempt from apprehension if they are not caught in public crime. For opinions expressed in the Storting Assembly, they cannot be held accountable outside these congregations. Everyone has the duty to conform to the order of the Storting. § 67 The representatives selected in the above way constitute the Kingdom of Norway. § 68 The great thing usually comes together in the capital on the first weekday of October every year, if not the king because of unusual circumstances, such as hostile action or contagious disease, choose another city in the kingdom. Such a decision must be known in time. § 69 When the Storting is not collected, the King may call it together if he thinks it is necessary. § 70 [[Repealed by the Constitutional Decision of 29 May 1990.]] The elected representatives are members of the Stortinget for four consecutive years. § 72 [[Repealed by the Constitutional Decision of 29 May 1990.]] The majority appoints a president, five vice-presidents and two secretaries. Storing can only be maintained if at least half of the members are present. Constitutional proposals may be dealt with only if at least two thirds of the members are present. § 74 As soon as the Stortinge has formed, the King or whoever he has seen opens up to it, the negotiations with a talk about the state of the kingdom and the subjects he would particularly like to make the Stortinge remarkable. No discussion shall take place with the King. Once the negotiations in Stortinget are open, the Prime Minister and the Councils have the right to meet in Stortinget and are similar to the members who take part in the negotiations when they are held open, but without a voice. In matters that are treated for connected doors, this only applies when the Storting grants permission to do so. § 75 That's what the Size belongs to. (a) to grant and abolish laws; to fix taxes, duties, customs and other public debt, which nevertheless do not apply after 31 December of the following year if they are not expressly renewed by a new increase; (b) to raise loans on the Kingdom's credit; (c) to supervise the Treasury in the Kingdom; (d) to authorise the sums of money needed for the state expenditure; (e) to determine the extent to which the king is to be paid to the government's budget every year; and to establish the apancy of the royal family, which cannot be in permanent ownership; (f) to obtain the minutes of the Government and all public messages and papers; (g) to obtain notices of the public service; (g) to the extent to the extent to which the king's public finances are made available to the public authorities; and (j) to the extent to the extent to which they are available to the public authorities; (j) to the public authorities and to the royal princesss; (judges) to the extent to the fees and to the annuals have been temporarily charged; § 76 All legislative proposals shall be made first at Stortinget, either by a majority representative or by the government of a Council of State. After its submission, the Stortinge shall review it and either accept or reject it. If it is rejected, comments from the Stortinge shall be taken into consideration once more by the Stortinge, who shall either withdraw it or accept it with the comments listed below. There must be at least three days between each such treatment. § 77 When the Storting has made the same law decision twice in a row, it goes to the King with a call for sanctions. § 78 If the king accepts the bill, he signs it, and thus it becomes lawful. If he doesn't accept it, he sends it back to the Storting saying that he doesn't think it's likely to punish it. In that case, the magnificence then accumulated cannot bring this decision before the king again. § 79 When two greats with one choice and at least two greats in between have made the same law unchanged without the Stortinge in the meantime having made a discrepancy in final law, and it is then submitted to the King in the words that His Majesty will not refuse to sanction a law which, after a thorough assessment, the Stortinget is too beneficial, then it will be law even if the King does not sanction it before the Grand Ring divorces. § 80 The size will be collected as long as it thinks it is necessary, and will close the negotiations when the tasks are completed. In accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, negotiations may be resumed, but they shall end no later than the last working day in September. Before that time, the King of the Great announced his decision on the law-enforcement decisions that have not already been passed. [[(see section 4.4). §§ 77-79)]] § 81 All laws are issued in the name of the King, under the Norwegian national seal, and in the following words: "We N.N. [[as close as they are to § 79]] make known that We have submitted a decision from Stortinget dated as follows: [[here comes the decision]] § 82 The government shall provide the Storting with all the information necessary for the handling of the matters it submits. No member of the Government shall provide incorrect or misleading information to the Grand Duchy or to a Grand Duchy. § 83 The size can be obtained from the Supreme Court on legal issues. § 84 The size is held for open doors, and the negotiations are published in print, as close to anything else is agreed with voice numbers. § 85 The one who sounds a commandment that has as its purpose the freedom and security of the Storting, is guilty of betrayal of the country of origin. D About the Judging Power § 86 The Court of First and Last Instance of the cases brought by the Grand Duchy against members of the Council of State, the Supreme Court or the Grand Duchy for a criminal or other unlawful relationship when they have violated their constitutional obligations. The more detailed rules on the charges imposed by the Storting will be laid down by law. However, the limitation period may not be shorter than 15 years in respect of the right to assume liability in the event of an action before the Court of Justice. The judges of the Court of Justice are 6 members elected by the Grand Duchy and the 5 members elected by the senior permanent members of the Supreme Court, between the leaders of the Supreme Court. The size of the members and alternates for 6 years. A member of the State Council or the Storting cannot be elected as a member of the Riksrett. In the Court of Justice, the leader of the Supreme Court has presided. Those who have taken the seat of the Court of First Instance who have been elected by the Grand Duchy will be seated even if the time for which they are elected expires before the Court of First Instance has terminated the proceedings. Likewise, Supreme Court judges are sitting in the Court of Justice even if they resign as members of the Supreme Court. § 87 The rules on the composition of the Court of Justice and the procedure are laid down by law. § 88 The Supreme Court judges in the last instance. Limits for the right to have the Supreme Court decision can be determined by law. The Supreme Court shall be composed of a leader and at least four other members. § 89 [[Repealed by the Constitutional Decision of 14 December 1920.]] Judicial decisions may not be appealed to in any event. § 91 No one can be appointed to a Supreme Court before she or he is 30 years old. E General Manager § 92 Only Norwegian citizens who speak Norway’s languages and languages can be appointed to the State’s office. (a) either born in the kingdom of parents who were then Norwegian nationals, (b) or born abroad by Norwegian parents who were not nationals of any other country, (c) or who have resided in the kingdom for 10 years, (d) or are granted the right of residence by the Stortinget. Others, however, may be appointed as teachers at the university and the learned schools, as detachments and as consuls in the up-and-coming places. § 93 In order to ensure international peace and security or to promote international legal order and cooperation, the Grand Duchy may, by a majority of three-quarters, agree that international cooperation to which Norway is party or joins shall be granted, in a restricted area, the power otherwise vested in the governmental powers under this Constitution, but shall not, however, be entitled to amend this Constitution. Where the Storting is to give its consent, at least two thirds of its members shall be present, such as when considering draft constitutions. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to participation in an international relationship where the decisions only have a purely international effect on Norway. § 94 A new general civil code and criminal code shall be issued on the first or, if this is not possible, on the second ordinary amount. Until then, the accurate laws of the country are by law, whether they are not contrary to this constitution or to the provisional laws that may be passed in the meantime. Similarly, the current fixed taxes should be kept at the next set of taxes. § 95 No dispensations, protectorium, moratorium or upliftment must be granted after the new general law has taken effect. § 96 No one can be judged but by law or punished but by judgment. Painful rises are not supposed to happen. § 97 No law may be given retroactive effect. § 98 No fees should be added to the national register of athletes who are paid to those who provide a service to the courts. § 99 No one shall be imprisoned but in the circumstances and in the manner laid down by the laws. Anyone who has unwarrantedly arrested or held illegal prisons is responsible for the detention. The government does not have the right to use military power against the inhabitants, but according to law, unless a congregation commands the public tranquillity and does not separate as soon as the civil administration has three times read loudly and clearly for the assembly the lawfulness of rebellion. § 100 Freedom of speech should be. No one can be held legally responsible for having received or presenting information, ideas or messages if it is not possible to defend itself against the fundamental freedom of expression in the search for truth, democracy and the free expression of the individual. Legal liability shall be governed by law. Everyone has the right to express himself boldly on government and any other subject. Only such clearly defined limits can be set for this right, where particular heavy duty of consideration makes it defensively opposed to the grounds for freedom of expression. Pre-sensors and other preventive measures cannot be used if not needed to protect children and young people from the harmful effects of living images. Message censorship cannot be done other than in institutions. Everyone has the right to have access to the documents of the State and the municipalities and to follow the negotiations of the court and elected bodies. This right may be restricted by law for reasons of privacy and other overriding reasons. Governments shall facilitate an open and enlightened public vocabulary. § 101 Thereafter, no new and permanent special rights shall be granted to restrict the freedom to engage in business. § 102 Domestic search must not be carried out, as closely as in criminal cases. § 103 No one who goes bankrupt will be freed. § 104 No one can be disowned from his or her property or his or her own property because of a crime. § 105 If the community is required to give up fixed or movable property for public use, it shall be fully remunerated by the Treasury. § 106 The purchase and receipts of the benefit of the performance of the goods shall be used only for the benefit of the performance and for providing the information. Ownerships of mild foundations shall be used only for their benefit. § 107 Odel and Liability rights are not to be waived. The conditions under which it is to be held for the highest possible benefit to the State and the benefit of the common good are determined by the first or second magnitude. § 108 There can be no countenance, baroness, family house, or Fideicommiss. § 109 In general, all citizens have the same responsibility for protecting the country of origin for a certain period of time, without regard to birth or wealth. The manner in which this principle is to be implemented and the exemption to be granted are laid down by law. § 110 The governmental authorities shall facilitate that every person employed can live from his or her work. Further information on the right of access to the workplace will be provided for by law. § 110a Governments shall facilitate the preservation and development of Sami language, culture and social life by the Sami People's Group. § 110b Everyone has the right to a healthy environment and a natural environment where productive resources and the lack of resources are kept by layers. Natural resources shall be managed in a long-term and comprehensive way to ensure this right for future generations. Citizens have the right to know about the natural environment and the effects of planning and taking action in nature, so that they can safeguard the right they have after the previous paragraph. The governmental authorities provide further information on how to implement these basic principles. § 110c Governments shall respect and safeguard human rights. Details of the implementation of the Treaties should be provided for by law. § 111 The forms and colours of the Norwegian flag will be laid down in law. § 112 Where there is evidence that any part of this basic law of the Kingdom of Norway should be amended, the amendment shall be submitted on the first, second or third occasion following a new choice and published in print. But it's first the first, second or third rise after the next option that determines whether the change should be made or not. However, such a change must not be contrary to the principle of this Constitution, but only to modifications in individual declarations which do not alter the spirit of that Constitution, and two-thirds of the Storing must agree on such a change. A trademark thus attached shall be signed by the President and Secretary of Storting and sent to the King for publication in print as the current title of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway. Option 2 The title of the Constitution is replaced by the following: The Constitution of Norway Option 3 Paragraph 6, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: However, inheritance has only those who are born in a straight downward line from the last reigning queen or her or her or his siblings, and those who are themselves her or his siblings. Option 4 the first paragraph of Section 9 is replaced by the following: As soon as the king, who is authoritative, assumes with the government, he makes this oath for the Greatness: «I promise and swear that I will rule the Kingdom of Norway in accordance with its constitution and laws; so help me God Almighty and All-Knowing!» Option 5 the second sentence of Section 14 is replaced by the following: Each State Secretary shall act on behalf of the member of the Council of State to which he is associated, as far as this member is determined. Option 6 Paragraph 17 is replaced by the following: § 17 The King may grant and abolish provisional arrangements for trade, customs, trade and public administration and regulation. They must not conflict with the constitution or the laws given by Stortinget in accordance with Sections 76, 77, 78 and 79. They apply on a provisional basis to the next set of deposits. Option 7 Paragraph 21 fourth sentence is replaced by the following: The royal princes cannot have civil office. Option 8 The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 22 is replaced by the following: The same shall apply to officials appointed by the Council of State or by diplomatic or consulate offices, to civil supremacy persons, to regiment chiefs and other military forces, to commandants on fastenings and to commandants of warships. Option 9 the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 25 is replaced by the following: The king has the highest command of the land and sea powers of the kingdom. Option 10 the second sentence of Section 28 is replaced by the following: He shall handle matters in accordance with the decision of the Council of State. Option 11 the first paragraph of Section 29 is replaced by the following: If legally a state council fails to meet and target matters that belong to his field, they shall be determined by another council of states, as the king constituates to it. Option 12 Paragraph 29, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: If legal maturity is prevented from meeting so many that no more than half of the determined number of members are present, so many other women or men who are required to sit in the Council of State shall be constituted. Option 13 The first sentence of the third paragraph of Article 30 is replaced by the following: If any member of the state council believes that the decision of the king is contrary to the state form or the laws of the country, he has the duty to take forcefully to protest and write in the Minutes. Option 14 Paragraph 41, first sentence, is replaced by the following: If the king is outside the kingdom without being in the field, or if he is so sick that he cannot take care of the government, the closest heir to the throne shall be to the government that temporarily exercises the king's power, so long as he has reached the authoritative age of the king. Option 15 Paragraph 44, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: The princess or the prince who is in charge of the government in the cases mentioned in § 41 must make this oath in writing for the Storting: «I promise and swear to perform the Government in accordance with the Constitution and the Laws, so truly help me God Almighty and All-Knowledge!» Option 16 Paragraph 45 is replaced by the following: § 45 As soon as their state government is over, they will make an accounting for her as the King and the Grandfather. Option 17 Paragraph 49 is replaced by the following: § 49 The people exercise the legislative power of the Storting. Option 18 Paragraph 50, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Norwegian citizens, women and men, who have reached the age of 18 or reach the age of 18 in the year in which the election takes place, are entitled to vote. Option 19 Paragraph 59, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: The voice number of each lot in each constituency shall be divided by 1,4; 5; 7 and thereafter shall be divided as many times as the number of mandates of the appropriate party can be expected. Option 20 Paragraph 62, first paragraph, second sentence, is replaced by the following: The same applies to the members of the Supreme Court and the service staff who have been appointed to the diplomatic or consulate. Option 21 Paragraph 63, first paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: (a) is elected outside the electoral district in which he has the right to vote; Option 22 Paragraph 63, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Similarly, when and how one of the representatives of two or more electoral districts is chosen, the law shall specify the choice to be accepted. Option 23 Paragraph 66, first sentence, is replaced by the following: On the journey to and from the Storing and while they are there, representatives are exempt from personal encroachment, if they are not caught in public crime. Option 24 Paragraph 71 is replaced by the following: § 71 The members of the Stortinget were elected for four years in a row. Option 25 Paragraph 75(h) is replaced by the following: (h) to be able to command anyone to meet separately in matters of state, as close as the king and the royal family; however, the royal princes may be called in if they have office; Option 26 Paragraph 81, second sentence, is replaced by the following: We have approved and confirmed Di, as We hereby approve and confirm this decision as law, under Our hand and under the seal of the Kingdom." Option 27 Paragraph 91 is replaced by the following: § 91 No one can be appointed a member of the Supreme Court until he is 30 years old. Option 28 Paragraph 92, the introductory wording of the first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Only Norwegian citizens, women or men who speak the language of the country may be appointed to the State; and Option 29 Paragraph 94 is replaced by the following: § 94 A new general civil code and criminal code shall be issued on the first or, if this is not possible, on the second ordinary amount. Until then, the accurate laws of the country are by law, whether they are not contrary to this constitution or to the provisional laws that may be passed in the meantime. Option 30 Paragraph 94, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: A new general civil code and criminal code shall be issued on the first or, if this is not possible, on the second ordinary amount. Until then, the accurate laws of the country are by law, if they do not conflict with this constitution or with the provisional provisions that may be given in the meantime. Option 31 Paragraph 96, second sentence, is replaced by the following: Torture is not to be used under increases. Option 32 Paragraph 104 is replaced by the following: § 104 Soil and bulum cannot be broken in any case. Option 33 Paragraph 105 is replaced by the following: § 105 If a person is required to give up his or her fixed or movable property for public use, he or she shall receive full consideration from the State Treasury.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e4896	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. Furthermore, the Right Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e4901	The left is also in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e4906	The left is also voting in favour of the proposal. The President proposes that it be voted on by roll call and it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e4926	No representatives were absent. The vote on the motion for a resolution will be taken at the next voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e4944	All parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, are behind I and II in the draft decision of the vote. The majority adopted the proposals proposed under I and II in the previous vote. It is therefore logical that the I and II of the voting should be rejected. The President proposes that we vote here in the usual way – and consider it adopted. In the light of the previous vote, the President will expect the majority to sit and thus vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e4962	Then the Stortinget has made historic decisions. I think we can allow ourselves to congratulate each other on that. [[Applause from the centre]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e4983	The title of the EU programme in question will make it difficult for most people to vote against: a creative Europe! Creativity has been used in most contexts as a positive and often necessary concept for a well-functioning society, for an optimistic future and for forward-looking and sustainable development. Nor is there any disagreement in the Committee that Norway should participate in the new merged EU programme. It is now proposed to bring together the old Culture 2007, MEDIA and MEDIA Mundus programmes in the new programme. A creative Europe aims at promoting cultural and linguistic diversity, promoting European cultural heritage and enhancing the competitiveness of the cultural and creative sector in Europe, in particular the audiovisual sector. I would like briefly to point out a few things that the Committee would like to highlight as important: It is great that the Programme focuses on facilitating access to funding in this area. The establishment of a loan guarantee scheme is likely to have a major impact on increased activity and creativity. There are many and clear feedbacks that the lack of funding stops many projects today. Furthermore, it is positive that the programme is so clearly promoting the media as its own programme area. The Committee has had a lot of dialogue with the media industry in the last year, and we know that there is a great need for increased knowledge and cooperation in the development of modern media everyday life. The digital everyday life does not relate to national boundaries, and we have to take this on board. The Programme also has a clear wish for cross-border networking across all programme areas and will therefore support cross-border exchanges and networking between cultural organisations. Finally, it is important to stress that when we go into and invest in the various EU programmes, it is also important to pay attention to how we can make the best use of the same programmes. Norwegian actors and environments have far too little power to extract the potential that exists. It is therefore important for the Committee to point out the importance of actively following up its tasks in order to promote the programme and make it known to the target audience and to make the Norwegian cultural council and the Norwegian film institute the Norwegian design of the programme. The Committee unanimously recommends that Norway become part of the new programme to become part of a Creative Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5002	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5017	This interpellation has as its starting point that we have not sufficiently managed to give older people throughout the country the opportunity to experience and activity in everyday life – despite the fact that the awareness and knowledge of how much such activity means has become much greater in recent years, and despite the fact that many policy initiatives have been taken and significant resources have been allocated to measures that support a broad commitment that all people, including elderly people living in nursing homes and in nursing homes, should be able to have experiences and be active, adapted to the individual’s opportunities. The first thing I want to say about is what kind of housing forms and housing conditions we're going to plan for the elderly and others who might have a little different care and help needs. Because it's been said that how you live is the determining factor for what kind of everyday life you're going to have. Report. Art. No. 29 for 2012–2013, tomorrow’s care, as the red-green government announced last spring, addresses this theme and points out that what we need is: ‘– A care service with housing forms and premises that are an integral part of the community environment in agglomerations and urban areas, where the public areas are shared with the rest of the population.’ The tradition of building institutions for the elderly is, as most people want to know, that these are often left out of town, preferably high and free, and with a view to the church or cemetery. The announcement of tomorrow's care underlines the importance of such institutions being given a place in the middle of living life, so that they can be a maritime part of a community. It provides the opportunity to share common areas, so that they can be exploited for many purposes, become a meeting point for all those living in the area, and serve as the venue for local cultural activities. Short distance will make it easier for family and friends to get inside, and residents can follow along and take part in what is happening in the community. Therefore, coffee and canteens, activity rooms and scenes should be open to all in the local environment. Many will also thrive better in such complex living environments, including younger people with care needs. A strategy to avoid segregation must be clearly reflected in the architecture and location of housing and institutions for health and care purposes. The red-green government established in 2008 a new investment grant for the construction and renewal of municipal hospitals and nursing homes. The investment grant is organised in such a way that, in addition to increasing the number of lucky days' care places by net growth, municipalities will also have the opportunity to renovate and upgrade the existing building mass. My first challenge to the Minister of Health is: Can such a grant be designed to support even more integrated solutions for nursing homes and homes – solutions that promote a sense of living conditions that are just being outlined in the morning’s call for care? Let me say a few words about culture in general and about the song in particular. This big message, which, in my view, is groundbreaking in its approach to today's theme, underlines how art and culture can be used innovatively to develop new methods and different professional approaches to care services. To achieve this, we need interdisciplinary cooperation that stimulates the whole human being, and that activates both thoughts and emotions, for example. through memory groups, writing projects, dance and music groups, or through defined cultural projects based on the individual’s abilities, interests and life experience. The cultural spaserstock, which the red-green government established in 2007, now has a pot of approx. Thirty million. kr. It is a fantastic system that has made sure that many elderly people, nursing homes and elderly people living at home have been visited by artists who have given fine experiences to a responsive audience. This scheme is managed by the states from the current year, and I think that means that we will reach far more with the good concerts and performances that are on the way. I will challenge the Council of State and ask him to make sure that the allocation of the cultural spaser stick is not taken away or planed down. Suffering if there was not as much enthusiasm from the then opposition over this system when it arrived, it should now have emphatically demonstrated its significance. So there's something special about the song. I've had the pleasure of singing in many hospitals and old people's centers, and I've been overwhelmed to see what the song can do with especially older denments. It's amazing when people who have lost both the ability of speech and the very words suddenly come to sing all the verses of the old known songs. Because something happens especially when the song, the most personal instrument we have, becomes a door to the room where the language is hidden and almost forgotten. In many places, among others: at the Red Cross Hospital in Bergen, you have worked with music as a therapy for many years. There is experience in the fact that dentures that struggle with language are quite clear in their pronunciation when they sing songs from the old days. Many of them could not communicate. They didn't have language, and then we started off with famous songs, and they sang verses in verse. The master's joy that it gave was brilliant, said the project manager at the hospital, Helga Lorentzen. Each patient gets his own organized music measures, and every employee, no matter what voice they have or background they have, sings. Music has reduced the consumption of sleeping medicine and sedative tablets. The measure has also attracted a lot of attention and is supported by the county doctor in Hordaland. Doctor and music therapist Audun Myskja has taken his doctoral thesis on the use of music in the care of dementia sufferers. He has, among other things, concluded that just singing, as part of daily routines, is a great help for demented people. Myskja is the first in Norway to have studied the type of music treatment that works on denments over time. According to Myskja, it is important that it is sung, not only organized, but at any time, when care and patients associate. The message from Myskja is that you don't need special training. You don't even have to have a great voice. If you sing at the service of dementors, the patient will relax, calm down and have memories back. My second challenge to the Minister of Health is therefore: how can we ensure that the experience we have gained in this field is more systematically put into practice, and not so much depends on the efforts of the fires and the soloists? I think that soul, among other things. the National Centre of Competence in Culture, Health and Care in Levanger, National Expertise Services for Ageing and Health, as well as the five regional care research centres linked to the higher education and university environments, can all contribute to the systematicisation of experience and ensure that knowledge reaches the environment. Several places in the country are making exciting research and testing on welfare technologies, which will also be a way to freedom, maritime stability and activity for many people. It's a work that, among other things. are at the University of Gjøvik, the University of Agder and at the National Centre for Interaction and Telemedicine in Tromsø – to name a few. One of the 2014 Research Council's programmes, which they have applied for, deals with ageing and describes several initiatives, among others. related to research on dementia and research and innovation to enable older people to live longer at home through prevention, health promotion and the use of welfare technologies. For a while we could read in the newspapers that the Minister of Health had been on seniority. Immediately afterwards, a punishing chronicle came with the index finger pointed to the same minister because he visited the happy seniors, and perhaps came to promise them some money. If I'm going to be honest, I can probably mention up to several acts by the Council of State that should call for a lot more anger than just this. I actually think both the Health Minister and the seniors enjoyed that dance. Here and now I promise, not to dance this time, but to a hopefully meaningful debate on an important topic that I think we need to come back to several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5058	The next speaker is Councillor Bent Höie, who is going to let go of singing and dancing, but give a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5061	Yes, I think for the sake of the Greatness, I'm not going to try what the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen could have done, namely sing a beautiful song, because the voices are definitely different. But I've been with and sung in a nursing home, living in a community at Lillehammer, and experienced that even though the voices are different, everyone can be part of the song – and it's very important. Being able to live an active life with others is important whether we are old or young. I am therefore pleased that the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen puts the search light on culture and activity as a central part of life – all my life. There is a lot of good work in the care sector today. At the same time, we know that it is failing in the social and cultural fields, and that these services can and must be improved. We need to provide better opportunities for culture, activity and the good community, so that everyone can have the opportunity to participate. This applies in particular to the elderly affected by dementia or other disorders that prevent them from participating in cultural activities. I believe that culture is an important tool in prevention and well-being. In recent years, there has been a broad majority in the United Kingdom to grant grants to the cultural spa, which the representative was also involved in. The walking stick facilitates cooperation between the cultural sector and the care sector so that older people can experience high-quality art and culture in nursing homes and institutions. A variety of vocals and expressions has emerged thanks to this grant scheme, and the events have delighted a great many users. The cultural walking stick is a good arrangement, and so we want to go on with it. The elderly shall not be merely passive beneficiaries of cultural services. In many places they have created their own activities and meeting places. As the representative was inside, a month ago I was invited to take a swing on the dance floor together with Senior Dance Norway in Neshallen. The experience warmed and gave me more taste because seniority is a great example of active ageing and good experiences in everyday life, and it's public health at its very best. I would like to see more of this kind of initiative. Cultural dissemination is also used as a method of treatment and care. This provides meaningful Community experiences and contributes to the further development of good care. Among other things, we have knowledge that the use of songs and music can dampen anxiety and reduce drug use in people with dementia. The size has allowed funds to establish a national environment of competence for culture, health and care in the municipality of Levanger. The main task of the competence environment shall be to develop and disseminate good environmental therapeutic actions in close cooperation with other research and competence networks. The government wants to create the patient's healthcare. Then we need to listen to what patients, users and relatives have experienced and experienced in dealing with services. When users and relatives talk about quality, they are usually concerned with things other than that of the municipalities or public authorities. It may be the opportunity to cultivate an old hobby, the possibility of having good conversations with people with the same interests, a good cultural experience or, not least, the joy of having a good meal, perhaps with others. We do not know enough about how users and relatives experience the quality of care services. In shaping the care services of the future, their experiences and experiences should be included in the new quality indicators of care that the Health Directorate has been entrusted with. Indicators shall be considered relevant to users and shall give a comprehensive picture of the service. Daily activity offers give many users good experiences and contact with other people. Such offers are also pitiful relief for the relatives and may help to prevent or postpone hospitalisation. The tuna is such an offer, where users participate in adapted activities on the farm and experience pleasure and mastering in contact with animals and nature. The Tunet scheme is an example of good cooperation between agriculture and care services. I will further consider the possibilities of extending the scheme to other industries, jobs and businesses. Here, businesses and businesses can use their special environment and competence to develop an additional product for which there is a major shortage, while allowing users to participate in activities adapted to their life stories, backgrounds and interests. Food and meals are essential in a comprehensive care service. Meals are culture, tradition, identity and fellowship with others. However, it may often be difficult to cover all the functions of a meal in a busy day of nursing or when a recipient lives alone and receives help at home. Therefore, it is important that we facilitate good nutrition and that the meal is a good experience, a community and the preservation of a tradition. Proper and timely food requires multi-level and multi-sectoral competence and cooperation. Minister of Agriculture and Food Sylvi Listhaug has invited staff in the care service to an inspirational course under the direction of the Norwegian Cookmasters National Association. There have been eight full courses for kitchen staff around the country, and the measure has been a success. The goal is more matt and increased appetite for the residents of old-age and nursing homes. My good colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, has also invited the country's rapporteurs to eat with the residents of the old and sick homes in their municipality to see if the quality of food is good. This is an initiative that I wholeheartedly support. Volunteering forms a patchwork of relationships that binds people together and makes life meaningful — it can be through football, cross-song, as a visitor friend, in turn, or other voluntary efforts. Volunteering makes an invaluable effort to contribute to activities, social meeting places and better public health. The Ministry of Health and Welfare cooperates with Freedom Norway to establish a meeting place for public health that reflects the full range of non-governmental organisations. Here, volunteers can meet and share experiences on how to get more people involved and work better with voluntary activities. We will facilitate the widest possible participation in volunteering. That is why, as the Storting has agreed, we should also develop a strategy for mobilising and caring for non-governmental organisations in the care professions and for strengthening cooperation between the public and voluntary sectors in the health and care sectors. The aim is to address measures that can help recruit and retain volunteers in the care sector. When users and relatives comment on quality, it is often everyday life, food and meals, experiences, culture and community that are highlighted. That is why we have made it quite clear in the government platform that we are going to develop a care service that is characterised by quality and activity. I am concerned that care staff should meet the needs of users, whether they are basic care and care, medical follow-up or the fundamental need for a meaningful everyday life. In this respect, we need to strengthen the skills of employees in several areas, and we will therefore implement a commitment to competence in the care sector. We will use all the good forces to ensure users of healthcare services are of high quality, more freedom of choice and greater diversity in supply. Culture, activity, participation, belonging and fellowship are fundamental to this work. I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important discussion about a substantial content in good services, not least about a substantial content in all people's lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5101	Thank you to the Council of State. He had many things in his post that I can join, and which I think is very important. I am a little interested in this with quality indicators and how the Council of State thinks these should be designed and implemented. I understand that they may be in the process of being prepared, and that he cannot respond fully to it. But I think it's an interesting way. The Councils of State also mentioned voluntary action. It has not least been very strongly underlined in the big message that I am so pleased with, which is called tomorrow's care. I've been a bit around the so-called development home and educational home, and there's a lot of great going on: at Darkved in Bodø, in the Krokelvdalen in Tromsø, and I've been twice at Stokka Hospital in the Health Minister's hometown, Stavanger, where they have a very large and beautiful sensory garden where animals that the residents get to be with and take care of, and where I was also visiting with a lady named Helle, a young lady who is a trained animal-assisted therapist. She brought her little Jack Russell-terrier, Lucy, and we walked around and talked to people there. Experience the joy of older people is almost as magical as singing. Many had long experience with animals. Animal-assisted therapy, I'll strike a blow. I hope that the Minister of Health can look a little bit more into it. It's not just for the elderly, it's also for the others. All work with children and young people with special challenges and special needs. At Stokka they had also developed what they called the ‘dozen of activity’. The word itself sounds special, but it is very exciting to create an individual plan of activities for the individual resident. One starts with the interests and commitment of the individual resident, and tries to connect it to the employees if they have special assumptions or special pleasure in working with culture, literature, music or other things. This is also a certification project that intends to ensure the quality of this method so that it can be rolled out more broadly. What you have seen so far is that it is very easy to implement a little more challenging and follow up and be absolutely sure that it is targeted and adapted to the individual resident. But I think that just this way of doing it -- more systematically -- is very exciting to go on. I hope the Minister of Health will take it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5114	I think the post from the representative Knutsen shows something that is very nice, namely that in this area it flourishes all over the country. There are a lot of good stories and good examples. What's the challenge, and that's also what the representative said in his first post, is just how we're going to make sure that it's flourishing everywhere, and that you get experience transfers. It is one of the tasks that has been added to this national centre in Levanger, but there is also some of the idea behind the mission that the government has given to the Health Directorate to develop some national quality indicators for the sector that are not only about medical matters, about care density and the kind of things we often discuss when we talk about quality, but also about user and family-experienced quality and activity. It is precisely because municipalities should be more able to compare themselves with others, seeing that they also meet these needs of their users, but also able to handle what the representative was about, namely how to maintain the commitment. Hopefully, you will be able to see if this is a case and, if necessary, take action against it. As I said, it's a lot of great going on around the country. I myself have been to Molde and visited a day's offer for demente there. I have a nice picture in my office as one of the users who painted. There I also met the choir called Kor Kjekt, who sang great songs for us who were visiting. The representative also referred to Stokka’s nursing home. The ‘Activity Dossette’ is not developed at Stokka, but at the Øyane Hospital in Stavanger, and is a very good example of how to work systematically not only to monitor the individual resident’s desire for activities, but also work very systematically with the way you involve volunteers into the hospital to maintain the activity. It requires professional work. The voluntary glows, but they can also lose their glow if you meet too much bureaucracy and too hard work, so it has to facilitate volunteering. I very much agree with those thoughts, and we will continue to work on the follow-up to the Storting Message and Health Care21, which also got a lot of excitement in Stortingen, in improving this in the service in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5127	For the Workers' Party, it's an important goal that all of us, including those who need a little bit of extra help, come with them. If we're going to make it, we're going to have to create strong communities for everyone. I fully agree with Minister Höie that we must let go of all good forces, but leave the commercials alone. In fact, if we're going to be able to get everyone to join in, if we're going to get everybody to get an organized offer, we're going to have to make even more use of the volunteer. I was a little surprised when Minister of Health Höie referred to municipalities that are not concerned with the perspective of the users. Health Minister Höie may know better about Right-Handed municipalities than the undersigned does, but the undersigned comes from an Labour Party-led municipality that is actually occupied by the people who are to have this offer, not the millions it costs. It's easy to pull out single events, good experiences, because it's about mothers and fathers, it's about grandparents. But what it's really about is working systematically on quality, putting in place some systems that guarantee the long-term, that ensure that you have quality tomorrow and the day after and not just a single day, as some examples have shown. It's very good with Inn on the tune and activity, but what we have to ensure is activity and quality every day. There comes the certification scheme Lifejoyed for the Elderly. The joys of life for the Elders were a student project initiated by two good friends of the undersigned. It is very nice that today there has become a national certification system and a quality scheme for older people. It's about working on the quality, systems and routines of a nursing home. It is not about financing the nursing homes, streamlining them and facilitating privatisation. It's about providing quality, and quality costs. It's about giving older people an offer of a decent end to life, about a worthy old age with a content. It's about watching football matches, it's about singing, it's about experiencing joy, and through joy and quality of life, it's quite right – as many have pointed out – that drug consumption is falling, and thus the quality of life is increasing. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that everyone is going along. If we are to ensure this, we must also ensure a robust local economy. We need to secure a framework for municipalities, so that they can develop the offers, and that they can have activists in hospitals. It was about quality and quality objectives. The quality survey of hospitals in Oslo was presented as very good, without anyone questioning what was being measured and what was included in the concept of ‘quality’. The union has recently revealed that between 10 and 15 pst. of all people who used the offer, responded and responded, i.e. a very low feedback rate. It also turned out that very sick people, people with severe dementia, had been put in a room with light on and asked to answer, and really wasn't quite aware of what they were responding to. Further work needs to define quality, not in order to streamline and finance prices, but in order to provide each person in Norway who is going to be in hospital, a valuable offer and to give each person the opportunity to have a good old age, where they live for something and not just for something.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5144	The interpellant indicates that we are getting older, that many will stay healthy longer, but that many will also be affected by various ailments and diseases. This is an important focus, as we know that the number of older people over the age of 67 will double by 2050, which will undoubtedly lead to an increase in the incidence of dementia and other age-related diseases. There is a great deal of work in the care sector today. At the same time, we experience that it often fails in the social and cultural field that has been addressed here. I feel that the Minister of Health has a good focus and a clear desire to improve. It is also positive that a broad majority in the UK have agreed to grant grants to the cultural spa, a scheme that the Minister of Health confirmed that the government will continue, and I think that is very good. We have a health minister who is well-intentioned, as he showed when he offered to spread pensioners in Senior Dances Norway up to dance in Neshallen – a funny feature of joy for many, not least for the seniors who participated, but I would also believe in the Minister of Health, which he was in the sea. I recently read in a local newspaper at Ålesund about a dance event at Hatlane care center. The residents were on the floor and swung in the dance with smiles and laughter. There was a shower and juice, but also a glass of beer and wine for those who wanted it – of course in a way, but enough for the atmosphere to be on top. I would also like to take the opportunity to tell you about the Minister of Health's visit to the care centre for dements in Molde. Now the Minister of Health was right into that sea, but I thought it was a very nice visit and a nice experience. It was a care center with lots of joy, where art, culture and choral singing really stood in the high-seat. At the Råkhaugen we were met with great cross-song, as the health minister said, by the choir called Kor Kjekt. It consists of a good mix of patients with dementia and staff. Everyone had been happy for a long time to sing for and with the Minister of Health, who could – as he said – leave the place whining, with a signed painting overlaid by the artist's sail, which was a demented lady. It was a very nice experience. I recommend going into the Facebook page of the Råkhaugen Day Centre and reading more about walks in forests and fields and many other cultural activities that are described there, among others. that they have been in cinema and seen the '100-year-old climb through the window and disappear'. A little later, I had a meeting with Motitech, a company that operates with motivational technology. They have produced a motivational bike with pictures and sound. Users can sit in the care centre and walk through familiar surroundings and childhood memories. For a year and a half, residents of the dementia department at the Kolstihagen Hospital in Bergen have regularly trained on the trim bike. Some of them cycle over half a mile each day, while for others it lasts by five minutes. One of the residents woke up one day and had hurt his foot. They feared that it might be a blood clot, but the fact was that he had a walker because he had rode too far. Patients became less anxious and anxious, which are typical characteristics of dementia. Without anxiety and anxiety, the residents need fewer medicines, and that's something we really should think about. They're in a better mood, and they sleep well at night. These are quotes from the Bergensavisen 6 October 2013. There are already good examples of good experiences around the country that can be copied and continued. The Minister of Health pointed out in his reply to many possible – and good – measures and that this is something he is working on and that he is really taking seriously. And then we, who are here, together, get to include several good recordings that have to appear, and make sure that it will flourish more everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5165	Let me first thank the representative Knutsen for having an important debate. We must take seriously how we facilitate good, rich and meaningful experiences for that part of the older population that does not have the opportunity to participate in the common cultural arenas. When such a question is raised, you have to have both patients and relatives in the centre, which the new government is also very concerned about in all its work in the field of health. As the Council of State said in its reply, the government will create the patient's health service. Therefore, the government also aims to obtain more information on how users and relatives actually experience the quality of care services. Many older people participate actively and with great joy in simple activities that are facilitated for them. I myself have a 68-year-old father who has dementia and lives in a residential and day-care centre. He finds pleasure in quiet walks, alone or with companions, he participates in quiz and wants to go on a car tour, and he has many who visit him. He's lucky, after all. However, many older people — both with and without dementia — experience isolation, may have little or no family and little visits. It is precisely because it is important to be able to facilitate the provision of activation between relatives, public health services, private providers and non-governmental organisations. It can be through reading evenings, music, dance, sports, games, art, cinema, theater, radio and TV. For denments, books and music can make stronger impressions and give more joy than before they got sick. Perhaps both communities, volunteer centres and non-governmental organisations can offer those older people who need activation but who cannot participate in the common cultural arenas. Not to let go of the dementia case right away: this is a new people's disease. More than 70,000 Nordics have been hit, and by 2050 a doubling of the number of those who have been diagnosed is expected. This means that we need to ensure the necessary development of home care and home care, and that we are likely to also have to put in place a strong increase in the number of care professionals for the care of the elderly. In order to ensure the necessary expansion, it is affordable that the new government now makes it lawful for municipalities to keep waiting lists, so that we can define the exact need for both home services, nursing homes and nursing homes. To the latter, the government has also increased the subsidy to the municipalities, so that there is an increase in the speed of building such places, as we know we will need more of them in the years to come. Dignity in the care of the elderly has always been important for the Advance Party. That's still the case, and that's why we're concerned about finding good solutions to that interpellant demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5180	Thank you to the interpellant who's going to a very important debate. A year ago, Stortinget Meld will deal with. St. 29 for 2012–2013, Tomorrow’s care. The Stortinget concluded that tomorrow’s care services will be created together with users, interacting with relatives, using welfare technology and mobilising the community in new ways. Three areas were identified as extra-important challenges: one was active care; the other was everyday rehabilitation; and the third was care and death. Today we talk about active care. In the vote on tomorrow’s care, the Committee then agreed with the red-green government that ‘a forward-looking and good care service must place greater emphasis on activation, both physically and socially’. It has been shown that a ‘series of studies indicate that it is in the social and cultural spheres and in food and meals, experiences and communities that today’s municipal care service is not good enough’. The Committee also underlined the need to extend the cultural spaserstock scheme referred to here. The Committee also stresses that ‘the therapeutic use of music and music against unrest and depression by dementia can be shown to reduce both detoxification and drug use in the elderly’, and that ‘there is a strong need to integrate cultural dissemination as a method of treatment and care, and to develop, disseminate and implement new practices across the country’. The Committee supported the National Centre of Competence in Culture, Health and Care in Levanger, which was to cooperate with other established scientific and scientific environments, and was also said to organise consensus conferences to assess new quality methods and treatments. I found it sad that we always have these debates in Stortinget. I think it's sad that we have such a sophisticated health care system that we can give our older people the most advanced medicine, and then we fail on the whole banal. When food and meal become a challenge, it is a serious signal that something is wrong with the system. When we can't give them a social network, a cultural experience – which all of us expect is part of living – it's also a serious signal. Many have been said today, and everyone has a lot of good examples of what can be done, but how can we ensure that everyone gets involved out there? The interpellant deals with housing, and I'm very happy about that, because we have to start with the structures. When we create institutions that are scattered, that are segregated far from the local environment, how can we believe that we should be able to create a normal life for those who live there? When the relatives have to run far, when the volunteers have to run far, it is not easy to create a community without it being very artificial. So the philosophy that ‘bad things are good’ – that the time for the big institutions must be over, that new old homes must be integrated into the community – is perhaps the most important thing to start doing this. A lot has been said about the In on the tune. The daily activity offer is very important. This is also the case with food and nutrition – there are too many undernourished – and music therapy. The amazing results one can get at demente, are only quite unlikely to look at, and we'll never be able to do this without using the volunteer. When we asked for a big message tomorrow's care, we received criticism from today's government party that the whole message was just a good description, and that one did not come up with concrete measures. The message was almost full of tips on what municipalities, volunteers and the business community could contribute by solidarity. It is very good to talk about all possible examples from Kommune-Noreg, but I now want to put a question back to the government: what does the government intend to do with the daily activities, with the supply of music therapy, with the cultural media – in order to ensure that what we are talking about is actually going to happen in all municipalities where older people live?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5203	It's exciting that food and meal are taken up. I have to admit that the Workers' Party crashed in Bergen together with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left and participated in the competition of our food serving at our institutions. I think that's one of the biggest mistakes we've made in caring for the elderly. The reason was that we were freed resources so that more people could contribute to the activity of the individual, but food means incredibly much, also in terms of being active and being part of it: taking part in the actual food production, covering the table, knowing the smell, etc. We want that back, and there's something about learning from our own experience. I know Hordaland the best, and I experience that one municipality after another, which is the Right and Advance Party-led, launches the food service at the institutions. I hope that the signal we received today will also have consequences and be listened to outside. The thing about volunteering I think is absolutely crucial, but also there we see that there are very big differences in experience out there. A lot of institutions refuse to use volunteers, others don't quite know how to do it, and some do it very well. That's why it's exciting that we set up the Worldness Centre in 2008 – care for the elderly. It is a foundation that was established as a national centre of competence, precisely to ensure the weak and vulnerable old the dignity they deserve in their last years of life. One of their main tasks is the training of volunteers and health professionals, including: volunteer coordinators. That's what I think is absolutely crucial to make this work better in practice, because there's an incredible number of organizations mobilizing volunteers. One of the measures they have now taken is precisely to coordinate the various actors – such as the Red Cross, the National Association for Public Health, the Pensioners' Association, Freedom Norway, the Salvation Army, the Church's City Mission and a number of other foundations – to see how they can coordinate their work in such a way that they gain experience from each other and it becomes better quality and more effective out there. I think there is a cross-political consensus that voluntary participation can strengthen the social networks of individuals, contribute to increased activity and reduce solitude. Music therapy has been mentioned, and not so many years have passed since it was recognized as both a research field and a treatment. The Red Cross is mentioned. They started with it, but there are really very few institutions that have put it into use, despite the good research results and the effect it has on how to implement it. It would have been exciting to hear from the Council of State how they intend to lift it up. Although the Council of State sitting here is not responsible for education, we have challenges in terms of education capacity in Oslo and Bergen in this area. It's especially in psychiatry and directed towards the elderly that this has an effect. The cultural spaserstock has also been mentioned. Some of the most positive things I've experienced were actually the use of movies. Then the older people got good memories, even participating in self-activity, hearing their own voice, seeing the image of themselves on the canvas and being lifted up on film. One can only imagine it: in a cinema filled with red runners, they had decorated themselves with the finest clothes, and then they come in there and see their own expression and their own movie. It with self-activity, seeing itself through it, had tremendous effect. That's what we've really targeted at children, so maybe the one with self-activity should also be weighted. The last area in which I want to challenge the Council of State, and which I did not find explicit mention by the Council of State, was this with local planning, that more care homes and institutions are being established near where there is activity. Because it's quite right, as the interpellant was inside, that for very many years we've been putting them in deserted places with a view into a forest. When it comes to getting institutions and nursing homes centrally located, I would like to highlight the municipality of Austevoll, which has just done so – placed them in the middle of the shopping centre – and the municipality of Mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5216	Thanks to the interpellant for a nice invitation to a debate here on these important issues. What we're talking about is quality of care, and in today's debate we've heard about many examples of a lot of good that's done out in the municipalities, both in terms of activity, music and various offers for our patients. We have to remember that our institutions are home to the long-term spaces. It's their home. These patients are not a homogeneous group. They're as different as us. They have as different preferences as we do with music, food, activity and what they think is important for well-being in their everyday lives. There has also been a lot of talk about voluntary action, and it is important, but creating quality in care is very much about systematic work. It's about good care, and it's about competence. I realized that the representative Otterstad from the Workers' Party in his post might have been more concerned with ownership than if the institutions actually have ownership to create good quality, have a dignity in care and work with competence. I think it's a completely wrong way to go to make a distinction between the different institutions, depending on whether they're municipal owned or whether they're private. For the Right, it is important to use all forces, but for the Right, it is also important to build skills. That's why we're happy that our government promised this already in its first budget last autumn and added 50 million. to a trusteeship in care. I took nursing school less than many years ago and wrote the main issue about the use of music in the treatment of dementia sufferers with unexplained behaviour. What I thought was interesting was to see that there was a little bit of Norwegian research at the time. Of course, we have Myskja, who has been mentioned before, and we have several other research tasks in progress, but there needs to be more research in this field, because it is very important if we are to create a good and dignified care for the increasing number of patients with dementia that we have in our nursing homes. I just want to continue to encourage us to work together well for an increased research effort in this area of primary health care and for increased competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5225	I would like to thank everyone who has participated in this interpellation debate. It's very important to get the good examples and thoughts of what we can do in this field from this pulpit and in this hall. It inspires us and it makes us think new. We have some challenges in operating what we think is right. Education has been mentioned by several, and it is a key to doing so. I think it was very important that the representative, Otterstad, mentioned Lifeglede for Older people, because there was an initiative taken by nursing students. If we get this kind of thinking into education, it's hugely important to get it implemented and rolled out where these students start working when they're done. Having a well-trained professional staff is important. It is a major debate linked to public and private actors. We've discussed that before, and we'll get back to that. But it's clear that those who work in institutions run by the big commercial players, on average, have lower education. We know that. We don't have to spend a very long time doing that. It's also natural when you're going to have a profit. First of all, I challenged the Council of State on this with concrete measures to rethink housing and housing, which will be absolutely essential for us to be able to do this. The second was what incentives we can imagine to implement the methods we see working, as others have mentioned, the last representative Troeen – i.e. the use of culture, especially song, in meeting and treating dentures. It's not like we're fluent with tools in the toolbox when it comes to meeting the many dents that we have and are going to get in this community. So to be able to find some incentives to put this into practice, I challenge the Council of State. Then I hope that the government councils and government parties can see with a little more positive eyes on the big message called Tomorrow's Care. The opposition parties were not particularly pleased and satisfied with it. There are many concrete measures, which are in the middle of the spotlight, because what everyone says is important, and which have been highlighted today – major, important public health initiatives, targeted initiatives that I hope the Minister of Health can take with him and say something about in his closing speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5238	I thank you for a good and useful debate. In this debate, too, there have been attempts to create a conflict between public and private in this area, in order to try to draw up some policy lines. I just want to remind you that the Activity Dossette, which Knutsen's representative drew out, has been developed at the Øyane Hospital, which is a privately run nursing home in Stavanger. It's a female founder who's behind it. She has developed a product that is now commercially sold to many other hospitals in the country, namely the activity kit. This shows in a very good way, in my opinion, that it is an artificial distinction. From the government's side, we're more concerned that all good forces are deployed in this area. Among the good forces the Workers' Party refers to, it is a female founder who has developed a product that is now sold to other hospitals. It's positive. What has not been so much progress in the debate is precisely what is a main development, that very many older people live at home, are active and healthy. This means that many older people are part of the cultural offer – run by voluntary organisations – and are crucial as an audience in the ordinary cultural offer offered, for example. concerts and cinema. It can be seen that many cultural institutions facilitate day-to-day activities that are especially adapted to pensioners, which thus have the opportunity to experience culture at times when there is no other audience. It's an important part of this. Of course, the government is working on the follow-up to the Storing Message on tomorrow's care. But we believe that the measures that were there are not sufficient. We are also working on the follow-up of the government platform in this area – the development of a national system of quality and activity, a stronger commitment to the development of happy day care places in the sector, and not least a lift of skills – a lift of skills that means that there is a need to provide more resources for education and training, while at the same time wanting to make more stringent demands on municipalities in terms of competence. Volunteers are crucial. It's also an important part of this. It's central to tomorrow's care. It's an area we're following up on, because mobilising volunteers in this sector is absolutely crucial, we're going to have to deal with this in the years to come. I understand that this is essentially an area where there is a cross-political consensus that we need to work more to get more content, activity and culture in Norwegian care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5253	Then there's case no. 3 finished. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5278	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each Party Party Group and 5 minutes for the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies to the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5287	The two issues we are dealing with now need to be seen in the context of the much-discussed coastal uprising — a movement of people that has shed light on the problems that many coastal communities have experienced when the key jobs in the countryside are in trouble. The cooling tube focused on what is referred to as the delivery obligations — the obligation of some trawlers to supply raw material for shore-based production. To clarify a little bit, we're talking about a total Norwegian cod quota of about 450 000 tonnes. Of these, the sea fishing fleet, to which these trawls belong, has approx. 30 pst. So it's approx. 130 000 tonnes they can fish. Of these again, it's approx. 35 pst. by the allowance whose name is delivery obligations and industrial conditions. So we're talking about a total of approx. 7 pst. of the total Norwegian cod quota. This isn't a quantum large enough to mount the coast, either north or south. But that is an important point of what is called delivery obligations and industrial conditions. It is the fact that there are delivery obligations associated with this. An undertaking has been made to see capture and industrial production in the context. The fact that these matters are now being promoted by these three parties must be seen as a sign of dissatisfaction with self-implementation and results after the eight years of self-government. Nor should it be overlooked that there is a strong need to pursue a little symbolism policy in an attempt to cover up this fact. In the right we have followed these matters carefully for the last five years and tried to lift them up to political treatment, without seeing today clear results of this being taken seriously. In the name of justice it shall be said that the red-greens started a work on revision of the regulation. The first draft new regulation was so poorly received that under a difficult market situation in Europe it had to be withdrawn. A draft of the hearing number two was then created and thawed it well, so that at least you should not be bothered with difficult questions about this matter in the election campaign. The hearing is now being discussed in the department. It is a real consultation note, which addresses the problems of delivery obligations and an industry that has a little difficulty. The second important catch the red-greens did when they were going to take the situation of the white fish industry seriously was to reduce a sample to review the framework conditions for this industry. The whitefish industry has had problems for many, many years. You can easily see it if you compare it to the industry related to the aquaculture industry. The employment figures are completely different there. You can't in the whitefish industry create big enough profitability to have safe jobs, something you've been able to do about what we call redfish. The Industry Committee is now at work, and the current government is also convinced that this is an important work to see how policies can facilitate the creation of safe and profitable jobs in the whitefish industry as well. There is a broad political consensus that these issues are so complex that they need thorough treatment before promoting good solutions. For this reason, the majority of the Committee takes both the previous and the current government seriously and awaits the outcome of the consultation on the regulation and the establishment of the Industry Committee. For this reason, the Committee has examined both matters and chooses to propose that the proposals be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5302	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5305	The delivery obligation is stated in the post. It's also in the notes. The representative also says that land and sea need to be seen in a context. What does the representative actually put in this? Is it how many kilograms of fish have been delivered, or is it actually what is the intention of universal service – value creation and employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5310	When I say that the delivery obligations are fixed, the purpose of the regulation is to get raw materials on land to create profitable jobs. The challenges to industry are multifaceted. One is that you have a high cost level. The second is that raw material of such quality must be obtained that it is competitive with other producers with other products. The third is to have an interaction between fleets and industry, so that you can have a market-based catch pattern – that you can get raw materials on land at the time the market wants. It is the way in which markets and people in Europe, which is our most important market, want to eat fish 365 days a year. We have not succeeded in delivering it when we talk about cod, we have succeeded in delivering it when we talk about salmon. So the delivery obligations are firm. They will then be used to generate profitable and market output in the white fish industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5315	In order to succeed in the fisheries policy and in the matter we are now discussing, there are a number of measures that need to be linked. For the Central Party, the coastal fishing fleet is important. Last week, notice was issued that a person would permit the structuring of allowances for vessels below 11 metres. Then the Progress Party has had a national meeting and has taken a decision that is consistent with what is stated in the Central Party's programme. My question to the representative is whether this decision will also allow the Right to reconsider its position on allowing the structuring of allowances for vessels below 11 metres – or was this a blow to the air from the Progress Party that the government and government parties will not follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5320	I must ask the Progress Party to reply to the country's decisions on the Progress Party. It is now that we are in government cooperation and have established a platform. There we have said that we must assess the structure also for boats below 11 meters. Structure is about renewing the fleet and creating modern jobs – creating a fleet that can deliver a raw material that provides us with profitable jobs. The Structural Scheme is the response of Norwegian Storing to what was formerly called the Condemnation Scheme, where the State entered and used public funds to renew a fleet. They bought out old ships and gave fishermen the opportunity to build new ones. In the 2000s, you weren't willing to be a part of it anymore. The structural system is now such that the fleet itself, by transferring several rights to one boat, takes the cost of renewing the fleet. That is what is being consulted by the government, and that is the assessment to be made. And then the government gets a result gradually. But the two parties rule on a government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5327	We have been documented that in winter there are several thousand tonnes of cod that should have been delivered, among others. in Finnmark and Troms, frozen on board vessels and delivered to freezing plants further south of the country, for export, inter alia. to China. At the same time, just last week, we received reports in the newspapers that companies in Båtsfjord also lacked fish early in January. I wonder if the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen sees that this cod should have been delivered in, among other things. Båtsfjord and the resorts on the Finnmark coast, could have created more employment in, among others. Boat fjord and Mehamn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5332	Here I must be allowed to be so direct that I say that the representative is aware that it is not the allowances that have delivery obligations that would have cleared up this problem. In the previous period, we proposed to move the start of the quota year to 1 September, thus giving fleets and industry better opportunities in interaction to distribute catches beyond the year – making this more market-oriented. In the previous period, SV was not very ‘none’ to do anything with it. Now I record that you say that you want to have a more market-oriented catch pattern. Such an adjustment would actually help the industry in Båtsfjord, as one could then extend the fishing period more. It is quite obvious that when we fish 450 000 tonnes of cod, we should be able to keep employment going more than four months a year. We should also be able to catch in parts of the year where the raw material is paid so well that the fishermen get up to $4 per kilogram, because the market is willing to pay when we don't flood it with fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5339	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5343	The fish in the sea belongs to us all. This was emphatically confirmed when the Stortinge manages the marine resource laws in May 2008. The debate on universal service is just about this. In the Working Party, we are concerned that resources should provide employment and construction along the coast. This is the way Norway calculates the resource rate before fishing. Therefore, we regard the participation law as very important. It regulates the right to fish, while ensuring the ownership of active fishermen. Industry companies Aker Seafoods and Nergård were granted a derogation from the Participant Act in their time. Troll quotas would secure raw materials on land. Cod trawl concessions were granted on a universal basis and clear regulations on industrial activity on land. We've seen for a long time that universal service does not meet the intentions of the scheme. Fish that should have been processed ashore are increasingly frozen and sent out of the country. The big paradox is that while fishing fleets have record cod quotas, people are at risk of losing their jobs in the rural industry. The people rightly claim that the jet owners said yes to the whole universal package, and then they can't change the crews along the way. The Fisheries Ministers of the Workers' Party have shown that if plants are laid down, fishing quotas must be set at berth. Is this the answer to Elisabeth Aspaker as well? The exposure shows that this case is important. That is why we have put forward the proposal we have made here in Stortinget. There is a slight difference in value between the proposal for SV and that of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, but the intention is the same. What is completely incomprehensible to me is that the Left and the Christian People's Party – which is not of all, the biggest parties on the Stortinget – do not want to get the cases handled in the Stortinget. But I want to say, it's not too late to turn around. We also, together with the Centre Party, have a proposal to keep the by-catch regime at the minimum level of the day, to strengthen incentives for live storage and to assess other measures for a stronger spread of raw material throughout the year. One challenge for the Minister of Fisheries is: it is often a matter of the Minister's wish to widen political settlements in this important sector, but it is not yet a single initiative to do so. Today, one probably also agrees that we're going to get the cause up in the Storting. It's, as I said, wide ups and downs along the coast to what's called an outs and outs and outs of the community's resources. The uprising has been raging along the coast in the north for several weeks, and Monday March 3rd came to Oslo. The requirement is that we, as politicians, take action to ensure that fishing resources continue to provide jobs and activity along the coast. This is a matter that also engages people outside the industry, because it is about the fish being the property of the people. It is about getting a regulation for this fish that helps to ensure that the intention to stimulate and secure industrial activity on land is followed up. It is the fishing industry that has been granted a derogation from the participation laws. Trawlers and rural industries must therefore be seen in a context of profitability. Then we should also take self-criticism. More could have been done under previous governments to ensure universal service. But I have to be allowed to mention that most people seem to agree that the system got a serious shot at the bow and was weakened when former fisheries minister Ludvigsen changed the universality of an obligation to provide. Nor is it right when the Right tries to create an image that the Stoltenberg government did not do anything to ensure universality. Helga Pedersen streamed her in, while Lisbeth Berg-Hansen sent suggestions for a number of intrusions on the earring in 2012. The last was also named by the previous speaker. Unfortunately, these were not put into action before the government change. Now we have a whole new situation, with a government that has announced a regionalisation of universal service. The profitability of parts of the coastal fishing industry is challenging, but this challenge needs to be addressed without weakening universal service obligations. It's also a paradox that it's going around for the land industry without a jet concession, while those who have a concession wear. Then we are back to the package that contains both fisheries and the agricultural industry, and that needs to be seen in the context. The Tveterås selection, which the Stoltenberg government has put down, and which will look at measures for industry profitability, is important. We're looking forward to what they're coming with in the course of the year. The working party is aware that contracts concluded must be complied with. If not, there must be a rice behind the mirror. I'm taking up the suggestions, which we have with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5379	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5384	It was claimed – both in the comments and in the posts of the representative Heggø – that the Stoltenberg government strengthened the delivery obligations. I think that is wrong. What Helga Pedersen chose to do as a state councillor was that she introduced something that was subject to processing. But she did nothing about the delivery obligations. I have to ask the representative to explain whether she believes there is a difference between universal and processing obligations, and how to get the introduced processing obligation to be a tightening of delivery obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5389	An expanded number of boats that had universal service, under former fisheries minister Pedersen. Fishing vessels were given universal service under the same minister. There is a difference between processing obligations and universal service – we may agree – but processing obligations were extended from 60 to 80 pst. both for cod and for hay.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5396	It wasn't very clarifying. The processing obligation is the industry which has, while the delivery obligations lie with the trawls. I mean, it's a very clear difference. There's also another question that has appeared here. The obligations of the different beam concessions are laid down in the concession decisions managed by the government, while a number of agreements have been concluded between industry, shipping companies and municipalities. You can also read the proposals from the red-greens as part of the decisions. Does the representative believe that, in the light of these proposals, the government – and perhaps the Storting – should be bound by written agreements between the municipality and the shipping company, as well as the management of the concession decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5405	What we in the Workers' Party are concerned about is that the intentions behind universal service are respected. Then we have to go back and look at the intentions. That is why we are making the proposal today, and that is why the coast is in revolt – because it is actually not being delivered, as it was shown also during the previous line change here. Fish are not delivered the following location as agreed upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5410	I fully agree with the representative that something has to happen when it is not being fulfilled. After all, we found cases that have been in the department for years, which had not been processed, and where there would have been a breach of delivery obligations – 18, if I did not remember completely wrong. This is really about the fact that the onshore industry is dependent on getting raw material of appropriate quality to run profitable production. That is to say, as the regulation is today, it is entirely possible for the shipping companies to deliver all the catches frozen, which will be a problem for the industry in terms of producing profitable. It is also such that the processing obligation can sometimes make it difficult for industry to produce economically whether the nature or size is appropriate. My question to the representative is actually a little bit in the extension of it. Could it be a thought that you change the regulation and oblige these boats to deliver fresh fish for the purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5417	The fresh fish strategy, which we introduced, was good. To what is being asked, if we should impose: we had a freezing law, which we took away. We can probably discuss this for a long time and well here – I don't think that we are supposed to be going today. I don't think we're going back to demanding everything to be delivered fresh, but I think we're going back to our universal service intentions. We're going back to giving good incentives. I thought it with live storage, which the government has now come with, is very good. But it doesn't suggest -- it needs a lot more. We can look at the change in the allowance year to get more even delivery. We're willing to look at a lot of things here and turn a lot of stones so this industry is going to go around.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5428	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5431	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for doing a thorough job in these matters and for having highlighted the issues in an excellent way in his article. Nevertheless, I need to link some comments to the two issues that we are dealing with. The cooling tube, as the rapporteur mentioned, is an important and triggering element for these two proposals. Then you can ask the question, why did the coastal uprising come? It came as a result of the expectations and hope that the red-green government had created. It wasn't a coastal uprising against this government, but it was a rebellion against and a despair, a frustration, over the hope of the red-green government. It was based on the fact that the red-green government had traveled around with some actors and created a ground for great optimism – a ground that had no real in itself. That's why there was a desperate situation. It's pretty funny that the former government parties, the red-green parties, who have been in government for eight years, who had a majority in the Grand Duchy for eight years, now make a number of proposals to the Grand Duchy to change a policy that they themselves have stood for. It's pretty amazing, and it's a little bit difficult to take them completely seriously in that way. There is evidence that during the previous government, delivery obligations were significantly removed, without the previous government doing anything about it. Maybe you should take a look at your own books and look at what you've actually done in the past. The fishing industry is an exciting and incredibly important industry, but it is also an industry that has a number of challenging and interesting framework conditions. It's not like we in this room can adopt profitability. The profitability of the fishing industry both at sea and at land level must be ensured. Thus, it is an industry that supplies its product mainly in an international market, a market that is very demanding, which is very challenging and where the willingness to pay and the ability to pay are also limited. That's what's really the challenge in it all. You have a product to sell into a market that has a rather poor economic carrying capacity. There is also strong international competition, and there has been a sharp increase in quotas in Norway, leading to an even greater increase in raw material entering the market. It is also very problematic. I'm a fan of finding good solutions, but it has to be seen in its entirety. I am very happy that the government is doing that job and doing it in an excellent way. Some of the proposals that lie here today are far from trying to open doors. I am absolutely a supporter of seeing the whole before starting to release the individual elements, and this is also evident in the setting today. I understand, as far as possible, the red-green impatience, but it's actually a frustration at the policy they've been pursuing for eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5446	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5450	I have a question for the representative of Korsberg that goes on if you don't deliver as agreed. What, then, is going to happen to my representative, Korsberg? Are the concessions left on the quagmire? The representative can answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5455	Thank you very much for the offer to answer yes or no, but I reserve the right to give the answer I actually want to give. Of course, if concluded agreements are not complied with, they must have consequences. I think today's fisheries minister has done that in an excellent way. I also expect the Minister for Fisheries to do so in the future, and I am also quite sure that the Minister for Fisheries will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5462	Now the representative made me very curious. Could he be so kind as to say what kind of reaction the Minister for Fisheries has come with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5467	What kind of reaction the Minister for Fisheries comes about regarding the possible breach of agreements concluded, I think it is much more right that the Minister for Fisheries responds to it than that it is signed to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5472	It's a little strange to hear from the representative Korsberg, who is trying to create the impression that the uprising in the north wasn't about the fact that one now went in to discharge the obligations that one had to deliver fish to the fish company, but that it's about an expectation that was created by the red-greens that one would deliver fish to the fish company. Then I wonder which part of Norway's history the representative has not followed. These concessions have been granted as a derogation in accordance with the 1947 Law on the Ownership of Fishing Crafts, exemption from the 1951 Radiation Act, the 1972 and 1999 Act on Participation. It is a central principle that concessions are granted with the aim of being a complement to the other traditional raw material provided from the coast. So what part of Norway's history is it when the representative ignores when he thinks it's made an impression from the red-green that it's going to be delivered to the communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5477	I'm not like I'm trying to create any impressions. In my post I pointed to the coastal uprising that was, and what that coastal uprising was all about. I am sure that the representative of Knag Fylkesnes has come to realize that one of the most critical of that coastal uprising was Helga Pedersen. The Labour Party received the strongest criticism. It was simply because the expectations and hopes that the red-green government had built up by making unrealistic promises, did not keep pace. That's why they got this coastal uprising. It was natural that the current government and the responsible fisheries minister had to ‘frame’. But primarily it was not what was the starting point; it was simply a frustration over the hopes that the red-green government had created.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5482	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5485	For generations, the Norwegian fishing industry has been an important industry that has both had and is of great importance to local communities along the coast and to the well-being of our entire country. Marine nutrition is important not only because of the direct impact and ring-fence of industry in coastal communities but also because of the role of industry as one of the largest value-generating industries in Norway. Norwegian seafood is one of our most important exports, next to oil and gas. Norway exports seafood to about 140 countries, and stable framework conditions are crucial to maintain profitability and also to increase international market access. It has been claimed that it was the government's decision that there is no activity obligation on the plant in Mehamn, and that on this basis Norway Seafoods is now changing the structure of its operations, which was the trigger for these representatives' proposals that we are now considering. But there are maybe two elements it's wise to have a little bit in the back of our minds as we now debate it. One is that the government's decision on the obligation of activity in Mehamn appears to be a purely legal decision, perhaps it also seems more like a clean-up in the aftermath of a previous government. The second is that I feel that all of the parties that six months ago were in government, might take a little bit of responsibility for the period they spent. It has also been said in the debate today that more could have been done in the previous period. The delivery obligations are one of the key prerequisites for the Norwegian joint resources to benefit the Norwegian community. That's why the Christian People's Party is very concerned that there should still be a universal obligation to ensure local further processing. At the same time, we need to recognise that there are major business-related challenges at industry level and, in order to ensure increased profitability, there is a need, among other things. to strengthen innovation, product development, branding and efficiency. This work should enable the State agency, as we see it, to contribute with the industry. But this is probably not enough to get into the plus. Some rationalisations may then be necessary, and therefore more communities may need to be seen in context when the government is now preparing a new universal service regime. However, it is important that the areas of universal service do not become too large and not too extensive. The objective must be clear: it must be capable of providing more stability and profitability at the industrial level and at the same time of ensuring the further development of local communities along the coast. In conclusion, I think it is quite gratifying that the fisheries policy has been given as much attention as it is this spring, also here in the south. This industry is clearly one of the most important industries in Norway, and unlike the petroleum industry, our largest export industry, fishing with sustainable use of resources will also be in the foreseeable future if we operate sustainably. An industry for the future deserves a forward-looking policy, and I hope and believe that the government with a constructive opposition here on the Stortinget – and hopefully also this second opposition – can draw the fisheries policy in such a direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5501	The Christian People's Party is among the smaller parties on the Stortinget and has historically been concerned that important matters should be presented to the Stortinget. The public exposure in this case has been large, and the Christian People's Party also says that the delivery obligations remain firm. I am therefore surprised to note that the Christian People's Party does not support getting the matter of any changes in the universal service obligation up in Stortinget. Can the Christian People's Party justify why they do not want this matter brought before the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5506	It is as stated in the letter of 13 March 2014 from the Minister for Fisheries to the Committee that initially, the delivery system is a system of government. But the Council of State opens up in the answer that this may be a scheme with which she will come to the Storting. We've taken that into account. If the changes are at such a level, the Council of State has opened up the possibility of a wholesale treatment. We have confidence in the Council of State and therefore we do not vote in favour of proposal No. 1 today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5512	I must say I am very disappointed in the Christian People's Party in this matter. Here SV and the Labour Party have come up with proposals that link the fish to the coastal communities along the coast, especially North Norway, which this is about. So it was my strong impression that in the debate in the wake of the uprising, the Christian People's Party and the Left were very drifting in the direction of moaning this – moaning the people in the north. Instead, one of them will be on the government line. We know very well what their platform consists of, a desire to detach the fish from the coastal communities and the people who live there, and a desire to make quotas eternal. So my question to the representative of the Christian People's Party is: What is the fisheries policy of the Christian People's Party? Has one now settled on the government's line?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5521	I can assure the representative of Knag Fylkesnes that the Christian People's Party is not following the government's fisheries policy. We are following the line of the Christian People's Party, and we have talked about universal service being important, maintaining universal service, and not being as completely detached as the representative mentioned in the reply. But there are some intermediate ways here, and these are just the intermediate ways I feel that the representative does not take into account, nor does the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre Party take into account. That is why we have chosen not to vote in favour of these specific proposals, but to look at them and come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5528	It delights me in a moment of sorrow to right that the Christian People's Party has not interfered on the government's line. It could be a total destruction for my part of the country, North Norway, in the years to come. But the representative Hemdal now opens up another kind of very interesting discussion, that is, one should get on a middleline. My question is: Either a fish connects to the farm and thus presses both industry and trawl to streamline and develop technology that allows one to actually get the extra value you have by delivering it in Norway instead of delivering it elsewhere or just fixing it on board the boats. So my question is whether the representative can map out what such an intermediary might be. What can be a middle line between the SV proposal and the Labour Party proposal on one side and the government on the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5537	It is good that a representative from the Christian People's Party can enjoy an SV representative – going from disappointment to joy in two minutes. If that's all there is to it, we can have many hours of joy here in the hall. It is also exciting that the SV representative says that the way of the Christian People's Party can have an interest in listening to – where you don't feel how you feel today, and do not have what the government has said in its platform, but find an intermediary. I think it's just where the opportunity for this industry to create profitability is, and trying to get as much processed as possible in Norwegian soil, but at the same time provide good profitability for this industry. That is exactly what we need to be at the heart of the Norwegian fisheries policy. There is SV warmly welcome in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5544	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5547	The fisheries policy of the Central Party has as its starting point the continued ownership of fisheries resources by the Norwegian people together, and the long-term management of them to provide life and work to local communities along the coast. Privatisation and sale of these resources is not acceptable. The centre lot considers that a deterioration in universal service through a modified device or geographical breakdown must be stopped. The government’s proposal to remove the universal service obligations of local communities and replace them with regional universal service obligations is the recipe for further depopulation of the coast. This is in practice a closure of the universal service obligation which gives two companies a competitive advantage compared to other operators. Trawler concessions granted on condition of supply to land installations must be withdrawn if the delivery obligations can no longer be maintained. The government cut the entire growth package for white fish as proposed by the red-green government in this year's government budget. This meant that important market measures and funds for research and development were lacking. The central party expects the government to take action and contribute more capital to innovation and to measures that could provide larger markets for Norwegian seafood. The centre party wants a varied fishing fleet with the coastal fishing fleet as a support bar for settlement and employment. Since 2005, catches have increased sharply and, according to the Fisheries Directorate’s catch statistics, much of the growth has been seen in the sea fishing fleet. These developments make it increasingly difficult to ensure local value creation and the development of viable local communities along the coast of the north. The system of supply conditions for cod trawlers shall ensure that fish processing establishments in the north have access to the raw material of cod and hake, in particular in parts of the year when the coastal fleet does not deliver much. The proposals we are debating today concern respect for universal service, and it is essential to establish that the trawls that have universal service obligations for the respective local communities continue to be linked to them, and that they do not become detached from the sea-country links. The centre lot considers it important that any changes in the universal service obligation be submitted to the Size of Treatment. The red-green government introduced what is called the by-catch scheme. This contributes to deliveries of other species of sea and hake in addition to cod for larger parts of the year. Own bonus schemes in the form of additional quotas for trawlers and conventional sea fishing vessels supplying fresh fish also contribute to increased activity in the fishing industry in the autumn. The centre party is concerned that the by-catch system must be maintained at the current level, that the incentives for live storage are strengthened and that other measures for a stronger dissemination of raw material throughout the year are considered. Norway has a fantastic starting point. Our goal is to get the fish on land, into the facilities to create activity, jobs and profitable value creation. I have a great deal of understanding that the people along the coast want value creation and jobs based on the resources they have. Then we also have to raise our eyes and look at how production is run and at the products you produce. The centre party is committed to increasing the profitability of the marine food industry, so we expect the government to now work along several axes at the same time. The supply obligation is a very important tool to ensure local value creation where fish resources are available. For us in the Center Party, it is absolutely vital to maintain activity along the whole coast. And we don't believe that the coastal communities or the seafood industry in the districts want the medicine that the government now prescribes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5578	In your article I got the impression – and you actually said that too – that you wanted the government to put the universal service requirement before the Stortinget. They put eight years in the government, and it was quite unusual to go to the Storting with such a rule. Why do they want to change this now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5585	The centre party – like the rest of the opposition parties, at least with the red-green opposition parties – believes that this is a matter of such importance that it should be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment. I did not register to the same extent that a similar claim was made in the previous period. We can decide that this will happen, but I hope the government listens to the desire of the Red-Greens: this is such an important matter that it should be dealt with in the Storting, which ultimately has the overall responsibility to ensure growth and development throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5590	In point (b) of the motion for a resolution: 3 in the proceedings of the Workers' Party and the Centre request that companies which do not comply with their universal service obligations and concluded contracts be subject to the withdrawal of the concessions they have been granted. That's what you said in your article here. Do you think that such a punishment should be completely independent of the degree of offence, or can a nuance of such legislation today open? And if you're going to be absolute on this, why didn't they do anything about this, when they put in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5597	The President must remember that there are also lines to go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5601	It might now be tempting to remember that we had 6.2 pst. digestion. I'm definitely not going to do that. For the past six months, we've heard enough about how much excitement different government parties have. The centre party takes full responsibility for the decisions made by the previous government. As for the consequences of withdrawing allowances, it is true that it is in the proposal, and that I said it in my post. And the big, practical rule should be that this is part of a package, where these concessions are given precisely with the reason that it is also going to help secure activity on land. If the essential assumption falls away, I believe that the basis for the concession itself also falls away. So I am in favour of the conclusion that the party has presented, and that I also had in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5608	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5611	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good presentation. To the left, it is absolutely essential that the fishing resources and other marine resources are the property of the community. They must be managed in such a way that they become renewable resources that can contribute to value creation and ensure well-being in the future. This is enshrined in the Marine Resource Act, which underlines the importance of ensuring the sustainable and socio-economic management of the wild marine resources and helping to ensure employment and settlement in coastal communities. The proposal that withdrawn concessions or fishing quotas should be subject to local management, which is the only issue here, would undermine the principle that the fishing resources are a national resource to be managed by national authorities. The management of fishing resources, including the allocation of allowances, participant access and the like, shall not be exercised by local or regional authorities, but shall continue to be managed and exercised centrally by the responsible State Council, by the Minister for Fisheries. In order to achieve the goal of becoming the world’s leading maritime economy, Norway is dependent on having a profitable fishing industry. However, parts of the fishing industry have had low profitability over several years. Several thousand jobs have disappeared and, in particular, the fillet industry has faced considerable challenges. There is no automaticity in the fact that access to large quantities of fish in the sea leads to profitable jobs and a successful industry. It is to the seventh and last markets that decide. Consumers are willing to pay a price for a fishery product of a certain quality, and if industry is to be economically sustainable, that means that production must be profitable. Over the last few years, the cod quota has seen a sharp increase, making it challenging to keep prices up. There is clearly a need for conversion in the fishing industry, but the debate on universal service and other obligations is only a small part of the issue that requires a holistic and broader approach. It cannot be assumed that the universal service obligation will ensure operation on installations, even if operations are unprofitable. A rational operator will not purchase a universal catch if it is unprofitable to process. That being said, it is important for the Left to point out that, of course, we require compliance with universal service agreements. The obligations imposed must be respected, and we have seen in the last few days that responsibility has been assumed by the government. Knowledge is important when designing framework conditions for the fishing industry. There is now a project that looks at how the cod sector over time has had weak profitability. In addition to assessing how and why the cod sector has had low profitability over time, it is intended to acquire knowledge of how public regulation of the catch and production of wild fish actually affects profitability, international competitiveness, structure and, in particular, environmental pressures. This knowledge shall form the basis for proposing measures which may contribute to increasing the profitability of the cod sector. These proposals, together with input from industry and research environments, as well as other investigations and actions undertaken, are important for policy-makers to listen when creating the framework conditions for one of the most important industries in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5632	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5635	My question is somewhat the same as I had to the representative Hemdal from the Christian People's Party. Historically, the left has also been concerned that important issues should be presented to the Grand Duchy. And as the representative himself said in the post, the left insists on universal service. But as we heard from Hemdal's side, she emphasizes an interpretation of the minister's letter. Is it the same interpretation that the Left has and would it not have been better to support the proposal that changes in universal service should be raised in the Grand Duchy, as the Left historically has thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5642	The representative Heimdal had a good answer to the same question earlier today, I think. The left has confidence that the Minister for Fisheries is dealing with universality, other obligations and what we are discussing here today, in such a way that we guarantee the value creation and ensure the profitability needed in the industry. We have that confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5649	I am surprised that the Left has confidence that the Minister of the Right will manage fisheries resources in the best possible way from the Left's perspective. I understand that the Left has a different type of fisheries policy in its programmes than the Right has – unless I'm wrong. But what I want to ask you is this with profitability. Regionalisation of universal service obligations is driven by a desire for greater profitability. In what way does the representative of the Left believe that regionalisation of universal service obligations will automatically generate greater profitability?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5656	We expect a total review of these questions to show that we have to make some adjustments. It's the Left on, it's one of the things left to the bottom, that here we have to be able to adapt to the market challenges that are, and that it's the basis for how we want to deal with such a case further. Then I would like to stress very strongly that we have our programme, and we are not necessarily running as the government says in the fisheries policy. But I also allow myself to say that when, after a thorough examination of the matter, we find that we are going for what we are now going for, we can get respect for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5663	What got me to take the floor was what the representative said he wanted a full review, but obviously not in the Storting, and that the Left was ready to go into change. Then I'm a little uncertain about where the Left wants to go, because the representative was very clear – I rarely want to say – on the speaker's chair as it was about the universality obligations being established. Therefore, my question is, what is the representative's definition of universal service obligations? Is that the intention behind universal service, or is it just the number of kilograms of fish delivered? And is it delivered to the facility by the one who has the concession, or is it delivered by anyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5670	I do not go into the details of this. I don't think it goes into 1 minute either. What we are using in the Left is that we want a dynamic fisheries policy. We have clearly stated where we want this from both the pulpit here today and in other contexts. These are good intentions on our part, on which I believe I have been quite clear. Then we say that this will be handled in a sensible way by the Minister for Fisheries, and I am sure the Minister for Fisheries will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5677	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5681	I wonder how many in this room and around the offices are aware of how much a cod trawl quota is in 2014. I guess that's 2,000 tons. That's a lot. There are many of them who have delivery obligations for defined locations on the coast, we know that. It's not a small quantity. It should have been delivered in Kiberg, in Vardø, in Vadsø, in Berlevåg, in Gamvik municipality in Mehamn, in North Cape, in Honningsvåg, in Skjervøy, where they do not. Only in the municipality of Gamvik would it have been delivered more than 5000 tonnes in one year after delivery obligations. There are neither ‘peanuts’ nor small fish, there are large quantities that could give work and great ringing effects to people. It had also had major ring-effects for the municipality and the county in taxes and taxes. And then there are some of the representatives here today who have allowed themselves to create a major problem of market opportunities and market problems. During my visit to Mehamn in February – out of three uses we visited two – they said that if they only had access to more fish, they could sell more in Europe in the best paid markets. Large supply chains in France will conclude good contracts with the uses, but they did not dare, because they did not have enough fish that could be landed in Mehamn. It's my reality, and it's quite different from the picture I've been drawn here. Aker Seafoods has accepted that they have obligations to deliver. During the day they were punished because they had not complied with the delivery obligations. It was from 2011, it had been in the department drawers. The Fisheries Directorate, the specialist body of the Minister for Fisheries, insisted that they should be punished and not be allowed to fish in seven months. They ended up being taken out of the fish for only two months. It turns out that if you're rude enough and you don't care about the law, which is decided here in the hall, you win. The losers are the people and businesses along the coast. We can't have it like that. Nor is it in the SV's spirit to take away the responsibility that we have both had and have and to hide what is the agenda here. We're not going to hide what we've done and not done. What is important is what we will do in the future – where will the fish be delivered? Should it be sent unprocessed on non-environmentally friendly vessels to China, or should it be processed in Norway? That's what's really important, so it's really a derailment of the debate. The people have stood outside this hall in February and said they want the fish back. The proposals we have made here in the United Kingdom, for which there is no majority in the Business Committee, are a clarification of exactly what the people have said, because some shipping companies have allowed themselves and have been allowed to press the legislation. And then it's the people who are left and who don't have enough work, and businesses that don't have enough turnover to get profits. I also think it is very strange and very surprising to hear that both the Left and the Christian People's Party are not involved in the clarification on which these proposals really go. Then we know – the country is not so big, at least not Finnmark – that their representatives in Finnmark do not agree with what has been done here. They say something completely different, they say they're on the line of the people. It's really about whether we're going to have the fish ashore, whether we're going to have businesses of it. It's that simple. Why can we not then be clear and support the proposals and say that this is the way it should be, because this is when the fish are standing on the coast, and that is when we are going to take note and have ring-effects? We have to use it here today as well and establish it once and for all, because this is an eternal problem. I am surprised at the inconsistency and the absence of action that seems to be here in the Storting by not saying so clearly. I came to think of something in the Bible: "Go, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing."
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5698	The representative also has to think about what is in the vote – he has some suggestions he should make.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5701	Since SV does not sit on the business committee, I have to ask that we address the proposal in Innst. 173 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5706	The representative, Johnny Ingebrichtsen, has taken up the motion in the vote. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5711	It was an impressive speech by the representative of Ingebrichtsen. Minister of Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen changed the delivery obligations in his time to what is called the obligation to offer. One of the reasons was that when there were delivery obligations for an installation, the crew on board the trawler was sentenced to serve it at a minimum price. In terms of tariffs, they were required to create a market. Regions were then created in order to offer the catch. My question to Johnny Ingebrichtsen, who is an active fisherman when he is not on the Stortinget, is: Does it not sound like a plausible scheme when considering the Raw Fish Act, when considering the minimum price scheme, which the Ingebrichts usually defend, that one should at least have a market and so many buyers that fishermen should not be condemned to supply only at the minimum price?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5720	It was a very good question, which is going to get a very good answer. What is essential in this is that the trawls were given their concessions, that they were to deliver in the fixed locations, was that they should take into account the business, the translation, that the people should have work and that the businesses should have raw material to produce. That's what the ministry already said at the end of the 1960s and at the beginning of the 1970s was the reason they gave these beam concessions, it wasn't because the crew would earn the most in a fluctuating market with a minimum price or overprice. That was the situation then, and so it should be now. That's what the intention was, and we're going to live by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5729	In its submission, the public also addressed the problems of having available raw materials for production and of maintaining a market throughout the year, which is a real problem, as agreed by all those working in the field of fisheries policy. Point 3 of the SV proposal shows that SV says that withdrawn allowances can be allocated to other ship groups. First of all, this will rock the distribution between the groups. There is now one debate I shall leave it to. In the previous period, the Right asked for an investigation into whether the industry could dispose of these rights in order to obtain a more market-oriented pattern of production. It was then rejected by SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party – partly by high-level rejections. Is it possible to interpret point 3 of the proposal in such a way that SV has changed its mind on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5738	No, let it be clear: it is the fishermen who are going to fish the fish and deliver to the industry, who are going to produce it. We're not going to have such a system that the industry is going to give the allowances. For example, what point 3 of the proposal means. that if the trawls which are subject to universal service obligations in Mehamn, where it is to be landed approx. 6500 tonnes, cannot be delivered by the letter of the law and what is provided here opens up so that municipal bodies, the local government, can distribute this quantity to other vessels, e.g. the coastal fleet, which is fully capable of catching this raw material and supplying it fresh for processing and shore-based operations. That's what that means.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5745	That was a clear and clear speech from the representative of Ingebrichtsen. I need to make a line related to managing the truth, and that there is one person in the room here who manages what should be done and what is right about this. I feel that I want to take a strong distance from it. On the left hand side, we're not adding up to anything that would defuse Finnmark. Such a language in terms of what benefits Finnmark, I think it's not worth much, to say it clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5752	I have not received any question – there was a statement, a comment. We just did something historic about an hour ago. We changed the Basic Law, and then we were 169 pieces in the hall here. There were also 169 opinions, and that's what we like to do in this matter of fishing. Let's be clear: all of the 169 people in this room have equal rights to say what they mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5759	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5763	The fish contribute to valuable activity along the coast. It's going to do that in the future too. We have the world's best raw materials just off the coast, and big markets not so far away. But we are facing strong competition from low-cost countries. It is a continuing challenge for industry. At the same time, it is also a challenge for us politicians to design predictable framework conditions. We are all busy with jobs in the districts, but these jobs are only safe if businesses have a safe and healthy economy. The proposers highlight the need for stable raw material access by industry. I agree that it is important, but the universal service obligation is only part of that matter. More trawling fish does not automatically mean better conditions and increased profitability for the fillet industry. Therefore, the system of supply conditions, or the tightening of the scheme, is a tool that will not solve industry’s challenges without delay. The Maritime Industry Committee assesses measures that can contribute to better profitability. I look forward to the investigation and hope it will propose measures to promote the necessary conversion. Only in this way can we create a basis not only for maintaining operations, but for increasing the value creation and profitability of the fishing industry. The government has continued, and started, several measures to achieve more efficient raw material access, such as: increased bet on live storage and the fresh fish system. The Government also considers the modification of the cod quota year as a possible measure. However, this is a demanding measure with which Russia, with which we jointly manage the cod, must agree that we can fully implement it. I record that the representatives behind Document 8:28 S, among others. asks the government to: ‘ensure the creation of local activity’. [[...]] To this I would say: the fisheries authorities control that universal raw material is offered according to the rules, and that the raw material can thus benefit from new activities. The verification shows that the delivery conditions are essentially met. If they are not observed, they may be punished. The 2011 inspection carried out by the Directorate of Fisheries shows that marine fish have breached the delivery conditions. Uncertain for what reason this matter has remained in the ministry for a long time under the previous government, without being decided. I have now taken a decision to punish the infringements with a temporary withdrawal of the acquisition authorisation for two of the company's trawlers. The fact that the cases have become so old has led to reactions being less severe than they would normally have been. Whether or not catches are actually delivered to facilities in return is not legally relevant, because the obligation is an obligation to offer, and not an obligation to deliver. However, I have tried to find out whether the system works as intended. Unfortunately, legislation has not been designed to give a safe picture of the real impact of universal service. This legislation has been unchanged since 2003. However, it is not certain that it is appropriate to introduce new requirements. Rather, we should find out what the universal obligation of the future should be and ensure that the conditions laid down can be checked. We cannot return to the time when the state established and operated the filet industry, regardless of whether it was profitable or not. The Marine Resource Act states that the marine resources belong to the community in Norway. The fishing resources are a national resource to be managed by national authorities and the government has no plans to change this important principle. As I see it, models for local anchoring should not be explored. This will help to accentuate today’s challenges rather than facilitate future-oriented development and activity. Any future amendment to the delivery terms regulation will be sent to the hearing. If it would be natural to present something to Stortinget, we will consider when we see what changes might be relevant. We're not saying that universal service should be removed, but a clean tightening of it and local administration is wrong medicine, and today there is no guarantee of increased value creation on the coast. Profitability is the factor determining whether life is created for the fishing industry in Norway in the future. Atle Tranøy, the group trustee of Aker ASA, then correctly points out in an article in LO-Currently 7-2014: «The technological, environmental and quality development of plants and workplaces requires companies to make money.» Innovative and profitable enterprises are important prerequisites for safe jobs and increased value creation. This will require conversion, and we politicians must dry up to it. Only in this way can the seafood industry survive in tough global competition and contribute to a steady foundation for local communities. On my many voyages along the coast, there is a broad consensus on the objective that as much fish as possible should be processed here, but there are at the same time many and different opinions on how best to achieve such an increase in profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5805	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5808	I just have to admit that I was a little busy getting to know if the minister actually said that the universal service was fixed, or if she meant the future, because what was said by the minister was that future universal service obligations had to be seen in a different context. I'm a little tired of understanding what the minister actually means, because what's in the committee comment from the government party is that there's actually a joint committee that says universal service is firm. How will the Minister define universal service obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5820	The question from the representative Hegø has the simple answer that no one disputes the principle of whether the delivery obligations of these trawls that we are talking about, and that are so concerned about, are being complied with. Then the government has announced that it will look at a regionalization, another arrangement of how the delivery obligations will actually be fulfilled in the future. That's what it's about, not whether it's delivery obligations. And the Prime Minister has stated that moving fish out of North Norway is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5827	The Council of State was committed to the need to strengthen the value creation and profitability of industry. Governments have an expectation of the sample that has been dropped to look at this. But I want to challenge the Council of State on what is her thoughts about how to increase profitability in the industry, because I assume that one has some own thoughts and not just sits and waits for the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5832	First, I want to congratulate Geir Pollestad as the new head of the nutrition committee. The answer to the question is that I have traveled very much since I became the Council of State. I'm very busy listening to the actors out there about where the shoe prints. Then we can't help but say that it is now important that the sample that works has to be allowed to complete and submit its proposals. But enough about it. What I hear now is that there is increasingly a good dialogue between the industry on land and the fleet. There is a good discussion about how the fish should be delivered. We are working on live storage strategies, we have fresh fish bonuses, and we are now working intensively to find new production concepts and find markets that are willing to pay for what it actually costs to process fish in Norway. All of this I'm focusing on, but I think it would be a little disrespectful to this sample if we were now very sloppy by the government and made a lot of decisions when we know that this sample is going to go through the whole value chain in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5841	I would also like to ask questions about profitability – or: The real issue we are looking for here is probably competitiveness, i.e. how to create a robust and competitive fishing industry. That's the goal. As other industrial thinking, it is about investing in technology and competence and the ability to obtain raw materials. That's what's the basis for this. My question to the Council of State is simply: when a person talks about profitability or contributing to a competitive industry, why cut the Minister's bets that were in the state budget and that were geared towards the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5848	I understand that we have put in place many important measures to help improve the profitability of this industry, and they have many good thoughts, even on how to obtain a raw material supply that will enable the industry to make use of it. Then it is important whether it comes to land fresh or frozen. You're busy raising your skills. One is concerned – in cooperation with the government – about what kind of market opportunities there are in the world. It is a pleasure then to note – despite what we hear from the red-green opposition – that it is actually going very well with export markets outside. We wish we'd been better paid for our fish, but it's actually over 20 pst. The increase in export value so far this year, so the record we set last year, is now set to strike at a significant margin.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5853	The cod stocks in the Barents Sea are historically high, we are all aware of that. There are large quantities brought on land, and the joy is that manufacturers and factories are able to sell it, get it away, get it into the market. Nevertheless, we hear more companies saying that parts of the season could have sold even more fish. We are also aware that, in the near future, the population is going to fall, the quotas are going to fall, and then the need to get more raw material to the upgraded factories becomes even greater. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure sufficient raw material for the companies that can produce this and provide the good quality of the market in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5860	It may be difficult to predict how large the future cod quotas will be, but we have good systems, international agreements and cooperation with Russia to establish this, and they will be at a sustainable level. It is clear that the fluctuations in the quotas are a challenge for industry, but it would not be right for the Council of State to sit and point to what kind of farms are going to get fish — or not get fish. There are delivery obligations relating to parts of the cod quotas, but otherwise it is the coastal fleet that contributes to the supply of land installations. I perceive in my meetings – whether it is in Båtsfjord, in Myre, in the Vesterålen or in Lofoten – that there is actually a dawning and ever better dialogue between the fishing side and the industrial side. And I challenge the fishermen to also look at their own catch pattern, so that they will be a little more solidarity with the industry that actually needs evener deliveries of the raw material.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5866	This was a reasonable answer, but I'll be a little more precise in the next question, with which it'll be natural to follow up. If the cod quotas are going to fall in the next few years, the Council of State sees it natural that these trawls, which have delivery obligations for their quotas – as we know, are landed in freezer hotels a few days before they are picked up by large freezer vessels and the ship to, for example, China or other nations far away from farms – are more forced to meet the needs that we know the industry will have an increase in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5873	As I said, I do not want to predict how the cod quotas will be in the future. I hope we harvest in such a sustainable and good way that we can have high cod quotas for years to come. That being said, I experience – to say it again – at my meetings, among other things. with Norway Seafoods in Båtsfjord that there is a good dialogue with the trawlers that have delivery obligations for the Båtsfjord factory, namely how the raw material should be landed in order for the factory to make use of it. In addition, we now find that there are companies that are using new technologies, which are becoming increasingly competitive, and where it is even possible to imagine that one should fly home some of the production going on, and the further processing of Norwegian fish abroad. So here's the technology development and the development that I hear about and observe in the industry, so that we can find good solutions in the future. Then I have great confidence that the Maritime Industry Committee will make a lot of brave, good proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5882	The minister stated in his letter of reply that when it concerns Mehamn, it was pure juss and not politics. At the same time, the minister has been surprised that the red-greens spent so long deciding the matter, which is now being repeated in this Chamber today. My question is very simple: does the Minister think that the intentions of universal service are respected in Mehamn?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5889	As regards the Mehamn case, it was simply a clean-up and an interpretation of the decision taken in 2005/2006. Then I am aware that there is an agreement between the municipality and the marine fish. That must be tried, if necessary, by contract law, but I would like to say that both the Mehamn case and the other case relating to the sanctioning of the offences revealed in 2011 for the fish ASA had been in the department for some time before the election, and the red-green government never had the courage to take the two decisions. I have my personal theories on why you didn't do it, but I'm just finding that it made it much easier to punish for the marine fish ASA for the breaches they had. I also note that if it was considered universal to Mehamn, the red-green government could have taken that decision. It didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5894	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5899	The obligation to supply, as many have said here today, means that the concessionaire must deliver fish to a particular named holding, municipality, district, region or county. The scheme must provide raw material for fisheries processing establishments in Finnmark, Troms and Nordland. However, as many have also said, in 2003 the universal service, which is today's theme, was converted into what is in practice an obligation to offer, by the then fisheries minister Svein Ludvigsen. Now it was enough to offer the fish to the plants. The problem is when the buyer and seller sit on the same side of the table and can reject the fish at their own discretion. It is often chosen to sell the fish unprocessed out of the country, where the profits are highest. That, for example: Smoking fish empire now sells most of the fish abroad is a consequence. This is, of course, economically profitable for the trawler plant, but at the same time there is a way to cope with the sea in the door, because the quotas on which Smoke picks up the fish are inextricably linked to the farms. The assumption has always been that fishing resources should ensure activity and employment on land. The number obtained from the companies last year shows that only 34.6 pst. of the cod went to the fillet plants in Finnmark and Nordland – factories for which the Søkke company has delivery obligations. The year before, almost 50 pst went. of the fish of the plants. When Smoke and also Nergård at Senja received a derogation from the Act of Participation, which says that only active fishermen can participate in the fishing, the reason was clear from the authorities: the processing establishment is the primary, not the trawler plant. Therefore, conditions were also set for the activity of installations in addition to the delivery obligations. So today we see that more and more fish go into the global freezer market, while plants in the north are struggling. At the same time, several farms in the north also show that it is profitable to operate and that would like more fish to be released on the markets, as the representative of the Ingebrichsen also mentioned. I have often wondered whether it could not now be expected that the major players in the fisheries industry are engaged in innovation and innovation in complying with their obligations to the coastal population. I can use my own home, Gryllefjord on Senja, as an example. It was about to shut down the plant. The community mobilized, I tried to mobilize as a populist, and the rapporteur and former fisheries minister Lisbeth Berg-Hansen did a very nice job with the Nergård group. Now new production is under way, with the storage of live cod, and now optimism is back. So it's possible to adopt – not profitability, but to try to do something new, something different, to become profitable. The easiest thing in the world is getting red numbers in the accounts by not doing any of the world's things.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5910	The journey through which this matter has been done is special. There are hardly any things we've had to deal with in the Storting where the understanding of reality is so great between the people it makes, and those who tend to it the most. In this case, the government has listened to those who tend to think the most about it. They have even resorted to an argument and rhetoric that is close to the Smoke-owned companies, and there is reason to go deep into it: is it true that this is just about profitability and that it is not possible to create profitability in small communities? It can always be useful to ask yourself a simple question: Who cares about this? The people in the fishing community along the coast think they're the big losers in this. At the same time, the Minister for Fisheries says that the fish will not leave the part of the country, that he will still be in the part of the country, and that he will generate profitability where he is. But those who cheer up are the companies that look at this and that can decide more on where to deliver the fish. What may be special about fisheries policy debate, and in particular discussion about fishing industry, is that it does not follow normal industrial policy discussion rules. A normal way of thinking industrially in the fisheries policy will be to invest heavily also from state resources, to invest heavily in technology, to invest heavily in skills and, not least, to capitalise on the environment that is missing in order to invest where they are. It is not an international trend that a large centralised plant is required for efficient operation. The trend internationally, if we just stick our heads a little outside our country – to Germany, England and the United States – then the trend is distributed industrial production. There may be good news in Norway, but this is not something you have discussed in this matter. One has, instead, insisted on the need to be flexible when it comes to the fishing resources that have been allocated to the Norwegian community and are to add values to the communities forever – they have chosen to make it flexible and listen to businesses. One must not be naive and think that companies do not want to make it easier. If they get clear framework conditions, where they know where to deliver, and where there is a clear commitment from the state to technology and competence, then a few can value. If a mere listener to the companies, who wants to make it easier for themselves, is cheaper for themselves, yes, then one ensures that the values disappear out of Northern Norway's hands, disappear out of the hands of the coastal people, disappear from Norway's hands, and Norway becomes a commodity supplier. It is not an industrial policy for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5923	I'm going to give an example to illustrate how complicated some of these things have been. In Kjøllefjord, the neighbouring municipality of Gamvik, where Mehamn is located, a jet quota was added in 2003 to a trawler named “Båtsfjord”. It came from Vadsø, because in Vadsø it was no longer industrial activity. In order to be allowed to transfer these rights, Aker presented a delivery plan and an activity plan that would build up under the good reason to move the rights to Kjøllefjord and get permission to deliver there. In 2008, the Ministry of Fisheries – with the National Labour Council – writes that the activity plan for Kjøllefjord, the raw material plan, is part of the delivery obligations. It is a plan to be fulfilled in order that the Ministry may consider the delivery obligations to be fulfilled. In 2012 – with the Labour Party Council – the Ministry of Fisheries of the Municipality of Kjøllefjord writes that the activity plan and the raw material plan are not based on the concession terms of ‘Båtsfjord’, so that they cannot be considered as part of the concession terms. So it's like you haven't got everything you wanted in the concession terms, and the department responds that way to the Labour Party Council. When one is attacked in this debate for having dealt with the terms of the concession when one has settled the matter in Mehamn, well, it's not just unfair, it's inexcusable. It would have been quite possible for the Workers' Party with its state council to decide the Mehamn case while still in government. Then you could have come to another point of view. It's not much, when you look at the treatment of Kjøllefjord, which indicates that it had become a different result. I think the result would have been the exact same thing. What is needed for the industry to become profitable? Well, we have closeness to the resources, but we don't have closeness to the market. So we have to increase market competence. We have to do an industrial analysis and get a modern industry, I totally agree with that. That's a little bit of what the sample is going to work on, and that's very good. So we have to look at: what are the local advantages, and how can we highlight them, so that in the smallest possible arenas we have to compete with low-cost countries that can make this so much cheaper than us? It's quality, it's market competence, it's product development, it's modern industry. We'll play in the first division on the Whitefish arena as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5934	When you gathered at Eidsvoll, there was no one from Finnmark who got there, so I am especially happy to be here today as a humble first-journey boy and alternate under the beautiful picture. I am also pleased when we discuss a matter that is so politically important to Finnmark that 25 pst. representatives of this Chamber are representatives of Finnmark. It has been said from this pulpit today that the coastal action is a frustrating act that the red-green fisheries policy has failed. I think that's very wrong. It's not like it's a frustration action over the past. Nor is it a demonstration against the individual industrial actor. It's a fear of the future. It is a real fear when we now see that there is a need to restructure the fishing industry in Finnmark. We see that production in a number of fisheries-dependent municipalities is shut down and discontinued, and a few production sites are concentrated. The fish is a national resource. It does not belong to Finnmark, but it does not belong to some industrial actors either. The industrial quotas we are talking about are given under certain conditions, they are given to obtain raw material for a land-based industry at a time when the small boats do not reach the fish – i.e. to ensure production over larger parts of the year. It is to provide employment, profitability and opportunities to live and live in coastal communities. When the Minister for Fisheries now says that she wants to look at the delivery obligation, I am not fundamentally against it – it may make sense. But what I don't understand is the enormous resistance to coming back and proposing possible measures and getting a wide range of treatment in the Storting and views on the job you're doing, and at the same time a back coverage. I had hoped that the proposals from SV and the Workers' Party could be dealt with differently from what you do by simply adding a case, and then everything is up to the Minister alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5945	The President wishes to welcome you to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5948	Let's not make a discussion about things that everyone in this room agrees on, that profitability is a prerequisite for the future fishing industry and for the future of the fisheries-dependent communities along the coast. Nor is universality the only gratifying act to ensure activity where there is activity today. However, it is an important issue, because access to fish is actually a prerequisite for profitability, and it is also, as many have pointed out, so that universal service has a historical justification. The companies currently holding irradiation quotas were granted a derogation from the participant’s law against undertaking to deliver raw material to land. So the universal service and the allowances covered by it have a rationale in the land industry, and I think that is a very important prerequisite for the further debate. Although the red-green government actually took action to tighten the universal service obligation, we have to recognise that the scheme today does not work in line with what was the intention when it was introduced. Then we can continue to hit each other in the head – as it is done in the setting, and as it is also done here in the hall today – with who did what and when in the last ten years. I'm sure we all have a lot to contribute to that discussion here. But it's actually not very interesting for the people that this is about, for their everyday lives, who has done what when. What these people and communities want answers to is: What will the politicians of the Great Government do in the future? The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have put concrete proposals on the table. We can discuss the situation in Mehamn and what's jus, and why you're there today, but well, it's now the snow that fell last year. By voting for the proposals that are on the table today, the Storting would at least establish that the universal allowances will continue to benefit the Mehamn community and facilitate activities there. It would have been an incredibly important clarification for the Mehamn community to get today. In the election campaign, the Right and Advance Party would have a little more universal obligation than the red-green parties. Today they reject our proposals without coming up with alternatives, and they're going to investigate further. It does not show any significant capacity for implementation or action, and we still lack answers to the very basic question: What will the Right and the Advance Party do, and what will a region be in the future? Is that North Norway we are talking about, as the Minister for Fisheries has just suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5958	It was almost liberating to hear the representative Helga Pedersen admit that the delivery obligations are not the only blessing. I believe that this recognition is important in the work we are in the process of creating good framework conditions for the marine food industry in Norway to be competitive, based on the world's best raw material just outside the living room door, fish so fresh when it is landed that if it is treated properly, we can also offer products in the market that are of the highest quality and that no one can compete with us about. So I feel the need to stress that the duty of activity to Mehamn is not, but the duty of universal service to Mehamn is. That means that those who want to operate there can be secured raw material if you want to accept and use the universal service that is actually for Mehamn. I believe that the government and all parties have a good sense of reality as to what is the wish of both the Coastal Action and others who argue for jobs and increased coastal processing. But we don't get along with the fact that those jobs have to be profitable, and if you were to understand any of the proposals here in their ultimate consequence, you almost hear that the state is going to run the fishing industry some places along the coast. Where it's not profitable, where no one else will, the state would go in and start operating the fishing industry. That has not been proposed, because I think that has actually run time from and that no parties in Norway actually mean any more. So I would say that many of the proposals and also the debate today testify to a lot of post-war clock. In fact, I have agreed to go into the letter of hearing which was sent out on 6 November 2012 by the previous government, with the deadline for consultation on 15 February 2013. It was a lot of suggestions, but I've also taken note of reading some of the hearing statements, and there was a lot of thumb down and a lot of clear warnings that an industry that is so well regulated and that is struggling like that with its profitability, actually doesn't need more regulation, but looking at how to facilitate the creation of profitability within that part of the fishing industry in Norway as well. So here I think it's actually pretty important that we now take the time to wait for the Maritime Industry Committee. I've never said that North Norway is going to become one delivery region, it doesn't mean the government, but we've said that we want to look at a little bigger regions and a little bit different regional boundaries than today. I believe that there can be no doubt about that, and it is important for me to stress here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5967	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e5982	Juxes and illegalities are problems that can affect all parts of the business. It provides competitive advantages for lawbreakers and stands in the way of other key innovation venues such as quality, market knowledge and product development. In the fisheries sector, we have an important additional dimension: we are talking about the harvesting and marketing of renewable resources, the Community's resources. Having a proper overview of natural resource extraction is necessary and essential to ensure good management, but also to ensure that the industry maintains its reputation both nationally and internationally. This winter, the Directorate of Fisheries stepped up the control effort. The number of inspectors increased and several high-speed inspection boats were put into service. Despite a significant control effort, few breaches of the rules were detected. Monitoring is demanding because the number of transactions and actors is large and spread along the coast. This means that compliance with the legislation must be based to a large extent on trust between fish buyers, fishermen and authorities. In other words, it is not easy to measure the extent of cheating and illegalities, and behind official figures it probably hides darkness. Nofima, which conducts research and development for the aquaculture industry, for the traditional fishing industry and the food industry, is embarking on a major food-funded project focusing on the profitability of cod fisheries. In this context, they have also taken a closer look at fraud and the mechanisms behind illegalities in the fishing industry. In order to obtain information on the situation, Nofima has conducted a survey among fishermen and fish buyers on irregularities in the quantity of fish delivered. It's an important premise for this interpellation. In this survey, operators were first asked to assess the extent of fraud on a qualitative scale. The average showed that respondents experienced minor to moderate juxtapositions. Afterwards, respondents were asked about the amount of fish it is juxtaposed with as a percentage of the total catches of operators. In addition to estimating the size of their own jux, actors were also asked to estimate the trick to others they have close knowledge of. So to the answers. About 60 pst. they replied that they did not engage in illegal activities. In the case of the remaining players, they replied that it was being cheated in the order of 1-5 pst. of the total catch. While it is important to stress that most industry members follow the book, this figure, 1-5 pst, is a worrying figure. In addition, in the survey, actors were asked about the attitude to cheat. So much as 40 pst. appears to have been more or less accepted and many of the fishermen state that there is a requirement from fish buyers. Such attitudes are not served by the industry. When the left has brought this up, it's because we mean it has to be zero tolerance for jux. On the issue of who initiates illegalities, it is reported in most cases that there is either fish buyer or through cooperation between purchaser and fisherman. The most common method of cheating is that more fish are delivered than the final note. Other methods are that poor quality fish are not recorded and reported to the authorities, or that fish buyers calculate the weight of fish in violation of the legislation, so that less fish are registered than the legislation requires. Nofima's measurement is subjective in nature and therefore provides an uncertain factual basis. The results therefore need to be interpreted with caution. We can't say whether the estimate of cheats is based on our own experiences or rumors, and we don't know if, for example, it's just actors with strong opinions that have responded. It is also an overweight of responses from the smallest vessels. This is an important basis. While there is considerable uncertainty about the extent of such irregularities, the study provides information on the perception of economic operators. So there's little doubt that jux is happening, and it's a concern that many people are experiencing jokes that are accepted in an industry that harvests the community's resources. This is a serious form of crime committed against a renewable resource upon which the value and well-being of our future depend. We have no reason to claim that the fishing industry is neither more nor less law-abiding than other industries, and we need to ask questions about whether any of these can be explained on the basis of whether the legislation can be perceived as unfair or unfair – difficult to obtain, if you like. In any case, the study shows that there are good reasons to strengthen attitudes and measures against fraud in the fishing industry. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What will the Council of State do to deal with illegal fishing and to combat fraud and the attitudes we look at cheating in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6008	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this very important matter. This is also among the most serious things I have had on my table since I became a minister. I therefore believe it is quite appropriate that we also discuss this in Stortinget. My starting point is that all the harvesting of marine resources should be sustainable. These are resources belonging to the community. Those entitled to use these resources are specifically responsible for dealing with the legislation in force. Missed quantity means allowance accounting errors and allowance setting errors. This affects the law-abiding industry, not least in the case of poor reputations both nationally and internationally. It is distorting if someone does not follow the rules of the game. They get an unjustified advantage over their colleagues, and it negatively affects prices if it's talking about larger quantities. That is why I would like to stress that the responsibility for compliance is primarily the responsibility of the individual and the industry itself. This is about attitudes of both fishermen and buyers. The inter-pellant refers to a study by Nofima on attitudes towards regulatory infringements in the fishing industry. Nofima says that methodological challenges require careful interpretation of the results. They should therefore follow this up with a new study. That being said, I am disappointed that they find such great acceptance for it to be «juxed». If the trick means that Norwegian fishing legislation is broken, it is not just ‘false and fantasy’. These are criminal acts that we should mention as crime and treat as crime. It is therefore good for Nofima, in fact also on behalf of the industry itself, to do such research and try to get better figures on the scale. The authorities have been quite clear that this is interesting and that it is important to be open in terms of the results found in these studies. Nofima had a chronicle in the media about this investigation at about the same time that the NRK sent a focus program around the same theme, about violation of the law on the kaikant. In the light of the claims made in the Focus Programme, I have already grasped the matter: On April 7th, I met with Troms and Finnmark State Attorneys to get their views on the situation. I have offered technical assistance from our administration area to ensure that police and prosecution authorities have good competence in the field of fisheries. Immediately after Easter, I met with the fishing industry to follow up the issues raised in the Focus Programme. Here we discussed new measures by the administration, while I was very clear that business organisations themselves have to take a great responsibility for clearing up the breaches of the rules that are taking place. Based on the experience of last year’s fishing, some repriorities were made to strengthen control activity in the current year. In the first quarter of 2014, the Directorate for Fisheries carried out 2 492 full or reception checks, compared with 576 in the same period in 2013, in the three northernmost regions. The increased control activities came both at the request of the industry for increased presence and because the management believes increased visibility of the kaikant may be a proper priority for the current season. In addition, both before and during cod fishing this season has been an active dialogue between industry and the fisheries authorities. This dialogue, I hope and believe, will help to create understanding and recognition of why it is important to record the correct quantity in the quota accounts. However, increased presence is not enough. I will now outline what I have done, and will do, to improve the situation further. The government has in 2014 among other things: strengthened the Network of Analysis of the Fisheries Management. This is a cross-disciplinary network of experts from seven departments: the Directorate of Fisheries, the Directorate of Police, the Coast Guard, the Coast Guard, the Directorate of Customs and Fees, the Directorate of Labour and the Directorate of Taxation. Through closer cooperation between different control centres, the network shall contribute to a more effective fight against fishing crime. It is important that information on crime and crime in the fishing industry is exchanged between the different control modes. Another important measure is the revision of the landing regulation, which was established today. The new regulation will help to ensure more accurate recording of the harvest quantity and ensure that more control points are obtained further into the value chain, thereby ensuring a more complete and correct image of the resource extraction. The Regulation will enter into force on 1 January 2015. This regulation introduces new requirements for the weights and tracking of land catch by reception and production. I would also like to send a proposal for prior notification of catches for vessels below 15 metres. This will give a preventative effect. If everyone has to report what they have on board before they arrive at berth, it should also be correct what is on the landing and closing note. Here we need to find simple technical solutions, such as: a text message. After a prudent start to the use of the infringement fee in the event of a breach of the Marine Resource Act, we are now considering the extension of the scope of the fee. This means that several types of breach of the rules may be met with a fee instead of a notification. The purpose of this is to ensure a faster response when rules are broken, and to relieve police and prosecution authorities, so that the police can concentrate their resources on more complex issues that require more investigation. This is intended to be, and is, a simplification of the industry but must not be regarded as a form of ‘non-hazardousisation’ of certain types of breach of the rules. The aim is effective sanctions. The use of so-called dynamic conversion factor is contrary to the landing regulation and not accepted. If the industry wishes to streamline and modernise the reception and control of fish, it must do so within the framework of the legislation in force. However, if it turns out that there is a need to make changes, I have challenged the industry and its organisations to specify and justify this need, so that the need for monitoring by the supervisory authorities can continue to be met. In addition, I have asked the Directorate of Fisheries to continue working on various issues and to assess whether technological developments make it possible to create a more waterproof system when landing fish. However, it is too early to point out exactly what solutions might be relevant in the future. Finally, I would like to stress again that I expect the businessmen to take responsibility themselves. I have zero tolerance for fishing crime. I expect the same attitude from the actors in one of the country's most important export industries. Breaking the law is unacceptable. Therefore, it is now of great importance that the authorities and business organisations work together to settle positions that are not compatible with this. It is about securing Norway’s good reputation as an international fisheries manager, but it is equally about ensuring a positive national reputation for the fishing industry. This is an incredibly important industry for the future. This is an industry that needs to attract labour. The industry must therefore appear attractive, and therefore the industry must also be very clear that it should act on the right side of Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6063	I thank the Minister for Fisheries for the answer. I agree that, of course, it is the industry's players who have to take responsibility here. At the same time, I am also pleased to hear that there has been close dialogue with industry and industry organisations in the matter. I feel confident that the Minister for Fisheries shares the concerns of the Left and that she wants to take new action. We have already heard of actions that are underway and established. These are welcome. Some operators in the industry call for a completely different attitude to be seen both among buyers and fishermen who are ready for shortcuts, if fish fraud had been reduced more severely. It was said that we need to implement new instruments in the fight against fishing crime. Quota withdrawal and withdrawal of purchase authorisation may be examples of this. But if the criminal situation is not discovered and the reported conditions are not investigated by the prosecution authorities, more stringent sanctioning options will only have limited effect. I am pleased that the minister was clearly at making sure that the control activities were strengthened, but I allow myself to have a follow-up issue related to the police priorities of fishing crime, and what kind of dialogue has been to get higher priority in this area from that team.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6072	The interpellant poses an important question as to how police prioritise breach of fisheries legislation. To that, it's just to point out what came out, among other things. in the Focus Programme, where the State Attorney in Troms and Finnmark, Lars Fause, admitted, and was critical of, that these were issues that tended to remain with the police. In the meeting that I had with him, I asked the question, "What is the cause of this?" He then pointed out that of course it may be that you have little resources, but it may as well be because there are few cases in each police district, and that the competence in this area may not be the same as it should be. That was also the background to one of my actions, namely that we are making ourselves available by the fisheries authorities to help ensure that the police's expertise is increased. Then I was also concerned that I think it is important that we can react quickly, that we can distinguish between what is more serious and less serious crime, and that the police's capacity is more reserved for what are the most serious crimes. We are now investigating whether we should use fees in order to quickly shut down and respond to less serious crimes. How it's going to happen is one of the areas we're looking at and working on now in the department. But it is important for me again to stress that if we are going to use fees in several cases, it is not an attempt to minimize the crimes that are happening, but it is for us to be able to react faster and more cash. So there's a question about what you've actually found in this Nofima study. I would say that rumors themselves are very destructive. Rumors themselves stick on the whole industry, even on all the nutritionists, whether they are in the boat or on land. It booklets them that here might not be everything that it should be. So there's a big reason why we're going to grab hold of this more seriously than what we've done before. I would like to say that at the meeting we had on 22 April – the first day after Easter – there was also a great deal of recognition in the industry even though we have a job to do here. I'm going to be the first one to admit that there is room to simplify the fisheries side legislation today. But it must not be an excuse for breaking the law today. You have to stick to the legislation that applies at all times. So we're going to have to simplify it, and then in the future you can have a simpler set of rules to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6085	The fishing resources are the community's resources, and they should be managed at the best cost to the community. Regulatory breach is not acceptable. I had a question to the Minister of Fisheries at the end of March this year, asking what happened to a new landing order, but the Minister would not say anything concrete about it when it came. But she came today, and I'm glad. It's very good that this regulation now comes into place. Equally important is the staggering work. Good postures are created through dialogue with the actors in the industry. It is important that you keep this up, even after the wave after the Focus program has gone down, and after the changes in the regulations are in place. It will not be possible to check all recipients, locations and all deliveries. Fortunately, we have a network of small receptions along the whole coast, so the Icelandic model with state controllers, to which it is sometimes referred, is not enough possible for us – at least not if one will keep the coastal fishermen and the small, close coastal receivers. This may be a good idea to include in the further debate, as it is easy to propose quick fix. I'm not saying it's going to happen in the hall today. It is likely that government officials would have had an effect, but in that case it will have a hard impact on the number of reception stations, which we in the Labour Party believe would be bad fisheries and district policy. I would also like to mention the fact that the Government of Solberg reduced the fees to the Directorate of Fisheries in its first budget. These are complex controllers, and with reduced access to the Directorate of Fisheries, there is reason to worry about the competence of new inspectors and that quality can be reduced. Number of controls is increased - good - but the chance of getting drawn is still minimal. I'm overconfident that there's a mass mass that both sees the seriousness and is saying that fishing crime is something we want to live, because it's not a joke when it's of a scale and with a content that the interpellant here sketched out in a concise and good way. In addition to the fact that this is environmental crime that could damage Norway’s international reputation, it is also detrimental to competition if the gambler is not followed, as the minister also pointed out. It is very difficult to control the management of fisheries resources at the top of everything when there is no correct number to stick to. The answers to the questionnaire to which Mr Farstad referred are alarming. I give tribute to the inter-pellant in order to raise the issue, and it must also be noted that the timing must be perfect, since the Minister for Fisheries has just come up with a new regulation and several new measures. What I have not fully received about the new measures is whether there is a new quality control on the quaicant. Perhaps the minister could say something about it in the summary. The important thing is to get hold of it. They're all going to benefit. Position change and bet on it will be important also in the future, so that once the flashlights after the Focus application are turned off, things will be kept warm. The fisheries sector is a future industry. It's probably we who are in this room right now, at least quite a few about it. And it consumes a positive search light.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6106	First, I have to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. I agree with the representative Heggø that the timing is glittering. In the last eight years, it's been working well. The red-greens did a very good job cleaning up a serious blackfish in the Barents Sea. Control points were introduced and well worked internationally for agreements with both countries where the market was located and countries where fish stocks were managed together. This led to cleaning up a harmful blackfish. That's part of why we have such a good stock in the Barents Sea that we have today. This also led to a good reputation in the market as good administrators. So it's a market advantage to be able to manage. In several of our important markets, we sell to conscious consumers who expect to shop – buy fish, buy food – from sustainable populations, and from what is called documented sustainable populations. That is what is the basis for quite a number of independent eco-labels that our different fishing teams can use today to gain market access and to increase the value of the market. So it's a very important question the interpellant is dealing with right now. If, as the Council of State says, we get a reputation for swindling with control, we not only cheat ourselves, we also lose in well-paying markets – markets we need in a high-cost country like Norway. We should also include that in part of the basis of the new Fish Sale Act, we impose greater control tasks on the sales teams. We wrote in the law that this was important for the industry's reputation, and that is important for the future job in order to increase value creation. It is also true that the job that Norway has done in the past has been used as an example when the EU develops its new fisheries policy. We're also in that arena to appear to be good administrators, and then we can't suspect that there's a lot of cheating going on in the industry. State Council mentions simplification and mentions legal fees. I'm sceptical about using legal fees. The reason is – as the Council of State here says – that it is very important that we use the legal system we have in order to make it clear how serious this matter is. I believe that to a large extent we need to use the police and the judiciary to address these issues in order to show the seriousness. It is then possible to simplify in some areas and to use legal fees. However, it is a question of legal certainty, because a simplified legal fee does not allow those who are, if necessary, there to have a trial and to have it tried before the courts. What's the status? The Nofima report shows, and the Focus Programme shows that the main conclusion we as politicians can draw is that if the industry players do not have an understanding of how serious this is, it is actually the safest sign that we are driving. In order to increase industry understanding at all levels of how serious it is to be labeled cheaters and criminals – for the reputation nationally, but also for reputation and market understanding internationally – the operators in the industry must appreciate the seriousness of the fact that they can be viewed as petty criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6125	I would first of all like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic, which was updated through a discouraging document at Focus on 25 March this year. There we could see that the whole 40 pst. operators in the fishing industry had experienced deliberate breaches of the legislation relating to the landing regulation. In Norway, we have always been a strong opponent of illegal, unregistered and unreported fishing — so-called UUU fishing. Internationally, Norwegian authorities have made considerable efforts to reach common guidelines and wide-ranging efforts to combat illegal fishing. When we talk about illegal fishing here at home, we like to talk about Russian trawlers and foreign criminal networks. Unfortunately, however, we must also acknowledge that the Norwegian players do not go completely free either. In terms of sustainability, illegal fishing is a disaster. When we don't know the extent of the fishing, we don't know how to tax the resources within the limits set. Overfishing is gambling with the resources of the next generations, and it brings quite short-term benefits. Overfishing is also terribly unsocial. Some actors who think more of their own profits than of the best of society are at risk of destroying not only for themselves but for the whole community. Moreover, it is extremely damaging to the reputation of an entire industry. There is no need for many offences until you begin to believe that a diet is dishonest or unfair in this respect. I would also like to stress that the words ‘fishing jacks’, ‘fishing fraud’ and ‘black fishing’ are not adequate for the description of what we are really talking about here. This is crime, and I very much agree with what Frank Bakke-Jensen says, that the legal system must be used here. We see that illegal activity in the fishing industry exists in too much of our commercial fisheries. Studies show that part of crime is organised, and in some cases there are also international branches. I'm very glad that the Council of State says she has zero tolerance for this. You can't have anything else, and you shouldn't have anything else. The control work done in criminal prevention is important. Nevertheless, there is a need for even greater efforts to combat crime in the industry, especially in cases where there are networks, knowledge and friendships that lead to failure, under-reporting and other criminal offences. But when we know that there are over 200,000 landings per year, it goes without saying that it is impossible and inappropriate to have physical control of absolutely all landings every year. In this context, good and broad cooperation between the relevant agencies such as the Fisheries Directorate, the Coast Guard, the police, the Ecocrime, the Labour Inspectorate, the Tax Agency and the Customs Administration is essential to ensure that the crime in the fisheries sector is exposed and punished. It is good that the Council of State has today adopted a new regulation with regard to the landing section. It will provide new opportunities within this area. We in the Christian People's Party still expect the Minister for Fisheries to follow closely the situation in the fishing industry and that the necessary steps will be taken to deal with the widespread crime. I also believe that an overall increase will be behind measures that can help combat crime if the Council of State needs the support of the Stortinge in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6156	I want to start by giving praise to the interpellant to bring up an important theme. I took the floor to express the support of the Central Party for the matter that was raised, and to attach some comments to the matter. The starting point is a study from Nofima. The interpellant was at risk of error margins in such a study. If you want to identify how many villains there are in Norway, you can ask each one: are you a villain? Or you could ask your neighbor if he's a villain. I think you'll get different answers, and that's a little bit of what's reflected in the numbers that the interpellant told you. But there is no doubt that this is a problem, this exists, and it has to be taken very seriously. It's right that here is zero tolerance, and it's primarily because here it's about the harvesting of a renewable resource. Then it's said that you've strengthened control. It has also been said that despite relatively large control activities, little has been revealed. There may be a signal that the control methods used have to be looked at to the same extent as the scope of control. What's perhaps worse about what's coming out of the study is that it's an acceptance to cheat. This may be due to talking about a field where there is little risk of being discovered. There are moderate reactions to those taken, combined with the fact that the rules that may seem unreasonable to the individual, but sensible to society as a whole, are more difficult to put into their own lives. Governments talked about the use of fees. Several of those who have spoken – both the representative Hemdal and the representative Bakke-Jensen – have expressed scepticism. I would also advise the Council of State to be withholding the use of the Fee Institute too strongly, for it may weaken the impression of the seriousness of this fraud. What we are talking about is – as others have said – crime. The industry has a responsibility for attitudes and practices, but it must never be forgotten that it is a public responsibility – police, prosecution and public oversight – to expose and combat crime. I think that's important to hold on to. I am pleased with the broad commitment that has been around the matter. I agree that this is about having the effect of the fisheries management we have, and perhaps even more important: this is about Norway's international credibility as an actor with great credibility in fisheries management, a credibility we must maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6173	In contrast to the previous case we dealt with in the hall, I perceive that everyone who has said something here is completely in agreement, both about the issue and about that here we have to do something – we have to act. I also think it is good that the Minister for Fisheries has signalled, or said from the outset – and we have read in the newspaper today – that some additional measures have been taken. The Nofima study, to which the interpellant refers, I've been a part of, I've answered it. It's a clue, but it's probably a lot right in this: there's been a lot of illegalities in the industry. I'm not going to be a witness of truth, but at least a common sense, because I live in the industry every day. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. The problem was much bigger in the previous year, last year, than this year. Now the Council of State has also told us that there have been increased controls. It's part of this picture. There are two factors that make it illegal to cheat on the weight and that there have been black sales. One is that the buyer and fisherman only agree that they should keep part of the quantity delivered, away from the quota – i.e. fishing more than the allowed quota. It's reindeer cheating and cheating. Last year it was a good part of this. Even those who say that maybe up to one third of the quantity was traded that way. It might be a little bit high, but there's more that mean it's between 10 pst. and 30 pst. You never know that, but it was a fact that it happened. And it was required to do something about it. The second aspect that makes the weight illegal is what the Minister for Fisheries was a little bit concerned with: a dynamic conversion factor. For example, a conversion factor will: in the case of cod, the main payment for the fish is the meat of the fish and, in a cod, the head and the toll are approximately in normal conditions. 33 pst. of the weight of the fish. Usually – with the exception of liver and eggs – there is no special payment for that. But when the fish graze on herring and soldering, we know that the fish can eat so much that the head and intestines actually are 45 pst. of the total weight of the fish. Then there will be a lot of going away to products for which you do not receive any special payment in practice. The industry is demanding that you have a dynamic conversion factor, i.e. a factor that counts down to what is pure fish meat, which varies with the season and whether the fish has a lot of stomach content. We are not alone in doing this – we have to deal with Russia, as we also set these quotas in the Barents Sea with – but the Minister for Fisheries has heard, and must also take into account that there is a great deal of this dynamic conversion factor; whether you accept it or not. Maybe it's a way to get rid of some of these illegalities that, in seasons, when you know that there's a lot of herring and solder that cod and other whitefish species graze on, you're open to a practical approach to getting another factor, a dynamic conversion factor. That's the second part of this. I also think it is very good that the interpellant addresses this question and that awareness also here in the Storting Hall, and we have to get started that this is not something that is accepted. The state council had enough last year to stand ready, because they were too little on the pia. It doesn't keep going around and just checking documents and catch reports, you have to be physically present at the quaikant and check that there is the right weight to be done. We see that the Directorate of Fisheries has been more out on the quays and followed and checked the weight. It is one of the most important measures that must be taken, and also together with raising awareness, such as: We're in here, I think this is something that we can all benefit from, that we're going together to get away -- this uddy, as you call it -- to get a better and cleaner nutrition. Everyone will benefit from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6195	I am pleased with the debate we have had today, the nuanced debate that has taken place here in the Chamber. Of course, that deserves to be done, and I am very pleased that the Minister for Fisheries and the Stortinge are taking this very seriously. In particular, this is important for the sake of those who are hardworking representatives of a great industry, those who are properly engaged. They also deserve this to be taken seriously by the authorities, and that the Minister for Fisheries is so clear in his speech here to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6202	I would like to thank you for a good debate on what is a very serious but also very important matter. It's about how we manage the community's rich fishing resources. It's about one of Norway's most important industries. That is why I am very pleased with both the initiative taken by the interpellant and the consensus in Stortinget that it is unacceptable that the rules of the game should not be followed. I also hear that several representatives are calling for simplifications and changes that make it easier to be a fisherman. It might have to be easier to be on the quagmire and accept. These are the things we work with, but as I said in my first post: the rules of the game that apply at any time to the Norwegian fishing industry must be followed. I expect the industry to be on the right side of the law. The representative, Ingrid Heggø, asked questions about quality control. To that I would say that the rules of the raw fish layer allow fish buyers to reduce the price of fish by up to 40 pst. in relation to the minimum price if the fish is not of sufficient quality. The extent of this type of price move has been found to be very modest. To this year it's actually just under 3 pst. of the quantity of the coastal fleet that has received this type of price reduction. There is an increase from last year, but I have no reason to believe that it is due to cheating, but rather that there has become a greater awareness of this with the quality and importance of landing the fish with the best quality possible, so that it can be included in further production and also meet markets and be paid for as best as possible. I have also noted that the Stortinget is – I kept saying – withholding in terms of the use of fees, and that you want more issues to be police matters in the future. I take that with me in the further work in the department. So to the new landing and closing note regulation: what I wasn't aware of, but as I was told at a meeting with the fishing industry on April 22nd, is that there have been processes since 2008. The regulation has been in consultation for two rounds, no later than 2012. Nevertheless, no decisions were made regarding the intensification of the requirements, despite the fact that the industry has been riddled with rumors and allegations of illegalities for quite many years. I think it was high time that we were able to establish a regulation that tightens up on the things I had in my first post, and then I commissioned the Directorate of Fisheries and other control bodies to see if there are any other measures that should be taken in the future to ensure that the industry is in agreement with Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6217	That is when the debate is on case No. Six over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6230	Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No 19/2014 of 14 February 2014 Annex XIII, Transport, was amended to include in the EEA Agreement the Commission’s Implementing Decision on the common specifications in the Register of Railway Infrastructure, the Register of Infrastructure. The implementing decision lays down the essential requirements for the Register of Infrastructure and shall cover the infrastructure and energy structural subsystems. The purpose of the Commission’s Implementing Decision is to provide the necessary detailed specifications for the content and form of the register, as provided for in the 2008 Interoperability Directive. The Commission Decision is a follow-up to existing obligations The Register of Infrastructure shall ensure that information on the railway infrastructure is available so that it can be used for the design of new vehicles and sections before they are put into service. The register shall also be capable of monitoring the development of interoperability of the rail system. Furthermore, the register shall be accessible to railway undertakings for the purpose of determining compatibility between the planned train and the route concerned. The Register of Infrastructure will primarily benefit railway undertakings that wish to access the Norwegian network and are therefore dependent on infrastructure information to adapt their material. This could lead to increased interconnection, which is the objective of the basic act Interoperability Directive. The register may also make international traffic to and from Norway more attractive to foreign railway undertakings. The Implementing Decision entered into force in the EU on 16 March 2012, while the registry itself shall be operational from March 2015. The Register of Infrastructure shall be established and operated by the Railway Agency, which has estimated the cost of the establishment of the register to be around 12,5 million. Total kr. The register shall be in operation from 2015 and the establishment costs will therefore be distributed over a period of just over two years. The total expenditure of the Railway Agency for the establishment and operation of the register is covered by the budget adopted by the Ministry of Transport for the Railway Agency. Coordination of technical standards in Europe is important not least in the railway sector. It will be a prerequisite for rail to be an attractive alternative for both pension and freight transport across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6247	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6260	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6266	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1 is already past it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6286	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6293	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit any changes in the universal service obligations for vessels with cod trawls authorised by the Government for treatment’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking that universal service be maintained for the benefit of the community, even if the owner of the trawls no longer owns or operates land facilities in the favoured community.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that the universal raw material provides the basis for new further processing activities in the favoured community if the activity on land is shut down’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that universal service obligations are not impaired by the extension of the areas of universal service.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the maintenance of the by-catch regime at the minimum level of the day, the strengthening of the incentives for live storage and the assessment of other measures for a stronger spread of raw material throughout the year.’; The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6347	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, by Johnny Ingebertsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify that catches from fishing vessels with cod trawl concessions granted with a derogation from the Participant Act, which have delivery obligations to farms, are to be delivered in such a way as to create activity in these communities’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests compliance with delivery obligations and the creation of local activity, even in cases where there has been no activity at the date of acquisition.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that companies that are unable to comply with their obligations and contracts will be subject to concession contracts so that the allowances can be allocated to other fleet groups capable of delivering the fish at those facilities or the same community.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose that any withdrawn cod trawl concessions with delivery obligations be subject to local management, in order to safeguard the original intention of the delivery obligations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6389	Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-06.ana.ud2099e6557	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – It has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
