ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e78	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The floor will be given to the representative, Mrs Følling, for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e91	Prop. 84 S for 2013–2014 deals with investments in Defence. The purpose of this proposition is to request the approval of the Storting for the start of two new investment projects, the approval of changes to a previously approved project and to inform the Storting on the following issues: Land-based indirect artillery. The project covers the acquisition of 24 self-propelled artillery equipment using ammunition, logistics and ammunition management systems. Multi-national cooperation on tank and transport aircraft. Norway participated in an international European project for the acquisition and operation of tank and transport aircraft. The government is planning to come back to Stortinget with the matter in a proposition during 2015. Defence unit helicopters. The government informs about the status of the purchase of 14 NH90 helicopters to Coast Guard and frigates. Reasons for delay in delivery are mentioned. Clothing and protective equipment — technical adjustment of the cost frame. The initial cost framework must be adjusted from 700 million. NOK 715 million. NOK plus implementation costs of 16 million. SEK, a total increase of 31 million. kr. The Committee argued that the framework for the various projects should be kept and that the Storting should be informed of the cost picture. The Committee would point out that the Stortningen during the treatment of Innst. 388 S for 2011-2012, cf. Prop. 73 S for 2011–2012 decided that the main base for the defence’s new fighter aircraft should be located and established at Ørland base. The Committee notes that the project includes the establishment of a new squadron building in the Ørland region. It is the first construction project in the construction of the new main base for F-35 and must be completed already in autumn 2016 for the receipt of the first four F-35 simulators delivered through the fighter aircraft project. The Committee points out that a new squadron building is important for the realisation of the establishment of the new fighter base on the Örland and supports its establishment within a cost framework of 619 million. kr. An alleged new construction project for the Örland fighter aircraft base will be submitted to the Stortinget for approval in line with established practice. The Committee has noted the concerns of those who are missing their property due to the establishment of the fighter aircraft base. The Committee would stress that it is very important that the defence has a good and orderly process with those directly involved. The Committee points out that projects for new stations in the South Varanger border guard were approved by Stortinget through Innst. 441 S for 2010-2011, cf. Prop. 110 S for 2010–2011, and supports the establishment of these projects within a cost framework of 351 million. kr. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the establishment of the border guard's station in the south is completed. For the north station, the detailed design has shown the need for adjustments from the approved project. Among other things, there will be: the increased need for the integration of information and communication technologies, safety requirements, new requirements for the station kennel and infrastructure. The increase in the cost range of 57 million. This is mainly due to the relationship with technical infrastructure and price rise. The size stayed in Prop. 1 S informed of a newly created project to ensure that the Fridtjof Nansen class has an Air Force missile meeting operational needs. The project has a cost framework of 1849 million. kr. Implementation costs of the project are estimated at 30 million. kr. The Committee agrees that these investments are necessary. The Committee is aware that the existing self-defence missile was developed in the 1990s. The missile was designed to have a lifetime of 15 years. Future and new threats call for updates and further development of the air-protection missile system. The solution chosen involves upgrading existing missiles in cooperation with other nations... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e123	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e126	Today we are dealing with a very important issue of annual investment in the Defence. It is a matter that is important because we in Norway have a very high level of material investment, and because it is something that makes Norway come forward in NATO context, that we are able to renew our material and increase our budgets at a time when many of our allies are struggling with both budgets and challenges related to the level of initial investment in material and structure. The crisis in Ukraine reminds us, as a member of NATO, of the importance that all members of the Alliance, especially in Europe, have to take greater responsibility for their own security. Unfortunately, we have to note that the relationship between east and west has become somewhat cooler than it was just a few months ago. But it's not as cool everywhere. In the north, there is still good cooperation with Russia, and it works well on the 196 km line between the two countries. Although Norway has chosen to postpone planned military exercises pending a more clarified situation in Ukraine, day-to-day cooperation between our two nations is working well. Especially do we see it in rescue and search and resource management in the sea. The same can be said of the inter-people cooperation in the Barents region. Today, little is being affected by what is happening in the wake of Ukraine. A lot of people are happy about it. In the context of the matter we are now discussing, it is important to say that the monitoring of our Schengen border with Russia is taking place in mutual and good cooperation with our neighbours in the east. Then we are aware that Russia is also rustling up its part of the border surveillance, with, among other things. building a completely new, partially double, spiked against Norway in addition to a reinforced digital surveillance on its side. When the government now wants to increase the cost framework of the new border guard in South Varanger to 351 million. kr, welcome. It has nothing to do with this matter, but a little heartache: It would have been nice if it had also been granted money to a new border station. Existing border station in Storskog has, as you know, blasted capacity, and an extension I think will also serve this matter. But we have to get back to that. The government is also proposing 600 million. kr to a new squadron building for F-35 in the Orland. Implementation has been the slogan of today's government. Therefore, there are great expectations of a rapid expansion of the new fighter aircraft base on Ørland. However, today's decision must be defined under the concept of an ‘important milestone’ for air defence. That's good. It is important for our authorities to establish good and close cooperation with local authorities, regional authorities and other stakeholders in order to achieve the most painless development possible. Finally, the upgrade of the air protection system to the frigates of the Fridtjof Nansen class is also important to mention in this matter. This investment of nearly 2 billion. Norway continues to have one of Europe’s most modern maritime forces. All in all, this is a matter where it is difficult for the opposition to make criticism of the government. It is good to record that the government of Solberg is continuing its efforts on the defence for which the government of Stoltenberg provided a good basis. Good and reasonable investments in Defence are widely agreed. It also shows a unanimous attitude by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e147	Prop. 84 S Investments in Defence shows that it is demanding to run budgeting in Defence. The costs of different types of material are constantly increasing. It is not necessarily due to the fact that large international companies are scoring national defence budgets, but to the fact that the technology being developed is very advanced. It's the insurance premium we pay to defend ourselves against potential enemies. This does not mean that tangible investment should be net expenditure paid by taxpayers. The acquisition and development of defence technology gives national industry considerable opportunities if we play our cards properly. It follows that the cheapest isn't always the best. Development of defence technology has significant spin-off effects for other Norwegian technologies. I recall that the Defence and Security Association – FSi – has more than 100 member companies. In other words, the defence industry is a large and important employer, not least in the districts. It is in any case a paradox that the more advanced defence equipment and equipment are, the less likely it is to be used. That's just the point: deterrence. Most of the advanced weapons in NATO countries have ended up on the scrapheap before ever being used in armed conflict. Some therefore claim that investments in the development of defence technology have been wasted. Not at all – the whole point of advanced weapon systems is that they should not be used. It is the very existence of the weapons that makes them effective, as well as with investments to which the Storting subscribes through this proposition. Air-defence missiles to close to 1849 million. kr to the frigates, increased costs of information and communication technology for the border guard of 57 million. NOK 294 million. kr, and squadron construction for scheduled fighter aircraft to 619 million. kr is the price we have to pay to have an operational, effective defence. With this as a backstop, it is absolutely essential that all major material assets in the Defense Service benefit the Norwegian defence industry and related industry. Indeed, EU and EEA countries do not have the opportunity to subsidise national industry, but the defence industry is exempt from these principles, precisely because it concerns national security. Norway should therefore not act as more Catholic than the pope on such issues, but use the existing space for action to create high-tech jobs with high potential in a number of areas. Technology cannot be adopted, nor does it come naturally. The Progress Party will therefore encourage the Government to continue and strengthen the national defence industry. Multi-national cooperation on tank and transport aircraft and artillery equipment should be a good tool to achieve this. That being said, we must at the same time realise that armed conflicts are not being fought, nor in Europe. High-tech defences and advanced weapon systems must therefore be accompanied by competent technology operators. This comes in addition to the many officers and private soldiers who every day do a brilliant job in their defense of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e162	Norway has a defence in the process of upgrading modern war materials. This applies from personal clothing to our largest weapon platform, the investments in F-35 fighter aircraft. It is important that we maintain and further develop a modern defence structure for our time. We need an effective response response with a high operational capability in line with the long-term plan. I am very pleased with the government's presentation of a new investment project with the squadron building to the main base of the F-35 in Örland. It is important that the project came now, so that we can ensure that the construction is ready for 2016, when four of our eight flight simulators are ready for use. An efficient multi-use facility is important when we are now building our main base for fighter aircraft, so that we can minimise operating costs as much as possible. The main base for F-35 will therefore be a compact, modern multi-use facility, where there will be a short distance between the operational departments, the training capacities and the maintenance facilities. This will provide efficient flight time production and ensure good operational capacity for the fighting aircraft weapons. The new fighter aircraft require large quantities of fuel. In defending our long-range country, we will depend on the possibility of refuelling elsewhere than in the Orland and QRA base at Evenes, either by land-based refuelling or by air-to-air refuelling. It would not be economically beneficial for Norway to operate its own aircraft with air-to-air refuelling capacity. It is therefore necessary that we have multinational cooperation on this critical capacity, both in terms of investment and in terms of operations. It is positive that Norway works with other nations to get this in place. The US will in the future extract large parts of its air-to-air capacity from Europe and re-prioritize these resources to other parts of the world. In order for us then to have the opportunity to exploit our fighting power with F-35, we ourselves need to safeguard this capacity in cooperation with other European countries. It is seen in investments in multi-roll tank and transport aircraft. These are aeroplanes that can be used as either tankers or transporters or a combination thereof. Multi-roller aeroplanes will provide flexibility of use. In addition, considering the possibility of a public-private cooperation project, OPS, for the civil use of the aeroplanes we do not need for daily use, but need as standby capacity, we will be able to reduce operating costs, but maintain a good level of preparedness. These are exciting prospects, which can provide great flexibility and high operational capability. The second new investment project presented by the government is also of great importance to our ability to fight. This material project is an upgrade and further development of the air-protection missile system integrated into the Fridtjof Nansen frigates. The new air-protection missile system is a forward-looking weapon system that will have the capacity to provide the frigates with good self-defence, while interacting with allied marine forces in order to achieve greater operational capability. It is reassuring to record that the Ministry of Defence is working to find an alternative weaponry system for the artillery after the completion of the project with Sweden on the acquisition of the land-based indirect fire support system Archer, so that the existing artillery system M109 can be replaced before the end of its lifetime in 2020. This will affect the total fighting power of the Artillery Battalion and Brigade North. It is important that we give priority to national defence capabilities, and that we have the will and ability in the future to invest in the further development of Defence with an operational capability and endurance we need to defend Norway and cooperate with our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e179	The government prioritises the further development and modernisation of the defence along the lines laid down in several successive long-term defence plans, which have also had broad support in the Stortinget. The proposals presented in this proposition are a clear indication that the government is following up on the investments we have made. The proposal proposes the approval of investments in high-tech materials and properties, buildings and installations for about 2.5 billion. kr. These are very important investments to continue the extensive modernisation of defence. It also provides information on four important material investment projects. So to the current investments. The Storting decided in the spring of 2012 to locate and establish the main base for the Defence's new fighter aircraft on the island of Örland. The establishment of the new F-35 fighter base is an important defence and security policy measure. The combat light base must be ready for the reception of the first F-35 in autumn 2017 to ensure a coordinated phase-in of F-35 against the phasing-out of F-16 as national fighter flight capacity. The government is committed to contributing to good progress in the development of the new fighter base on Ørland, while at the same time facilitating forward-looking development for the local communities on Fosen. Those directly affected by the development will be well cared for through an open and inclusive process. At the same time, the Government must ensure that the decision of the Grand Duchy is implemented within the given time limits. As part of the regulatory plan work, a number of meetings were held in spring 2014 on the need for remedial actions between local, regional and state authorities, both at political and administrative level. These included: a meeting between the host municipalities, the county authorities and the State Secretaries from several departments in March of this year. I have also been in contact with local authorities and noise groups. In parallel, Defence Building and the municipality of Ørland are engaged in negotiations on remedial measures related to the regulatory work. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence visited Ørland on 6 June and underlined the importance of continuing the dialogue around the regulatory plan and at the same time signalled the Ministry of Defence's willingness to find solutions related to the Haarberg school. The State Secretary also met representatives of those affected by the noise challenges arising from the establishment. That process intends primarily to find good solutions in areas where there is a need to remedy or compensate for any adverse consequences of the establishment of the fighting aeroplane base. On the other hand, the development of the fighter base will also represent many new opportunities for the community and the region, such as: in the form of increased mobility, increased demand for goods and services, as well as both temporary and permanent jobs. In this proposition, the government is presenting an investment project to meet the needs of the new fighter aircraft for flight simulator facilities, planning and evaluation of mission and management of the fighter aircraft operations at the base. The Quadron construction is planned to be completed early in 2016, I just want to underline it. I noticed that it stood in the setting in autumn 2016, but so the time is early in 2016 to receive and operate the F-35 from Ørland Main Aviation Station in 2017. In the spring of 2011, the Stortinge adopted the project for the establishment of two new stations for border guards in South Varanger, one in the south, in Svanvik, and one in the north, at Storskog. The project has an approved cost framework of 294 million. kr. The establishment of the station in Svanvik is complete and is planned to open on 17 June this year. I'm going to participate in the opening myself and look very forward to it. The detailed design of the station at Storskog reveals the need to extend the scope due to increased needs and new requirements. In addition, the market price is higher than that underlying the planning of the project. The Government is therefore promoting proposals to change the scope of the project and increase the overall cost framework by 57 million. NOK 351 million. NOK to realise also the station at Storskog. The project will be completed in the summer of 2016. Freightmen of the Fridtjof Nansen class contribute to the performance of the defence's duties in peace, crisis and war. The frigates have a wide range of sensors and weapons, and they are useful in the breadth of maritime operations, both nationally and internationally. Vessel weapon systems and self-protection must be modern and effective in order to face different threats. In order to improve the self-protection of the frigates, the Government recommends three main measures: participate in the development of, and subsequently acquire new ESSM Block 2 missiles to adapt the frigate weapon system to the new missiles to extend the lifetime of existing ESSM Block 1 missiles; The development and acquisition of new missiles will be undertaken together with partners in the NATO Sea Sparrow project. Norway has been involved in the cooperation project since its inception in 1968. The plan is to conclude a development agreement in the summer of 2014. The U.S. company Raytheon will be the main supplier in the development phase. The government suggests that Norway becomes an important industrial partner in the production of the new missiles. The acquisition and phasing-in of the missiles is planned for the period 2021 to 2025. The defence was originally to acquire 24 new artillery rights of the type Archer. The acquisition was planned in cooperation with Sweden. The supplier has had major challenges in developing the shooting and ammunition management system, and there have been considerable delays. The government concluded before Christmas that the artillery system would not be able to meet the defence needs within the time available and decided in December 2013 to withdraw from the contract with the supplier. Negotiations are in progress on this. The previous government announced these problems in Prop. 1 for 2013, and it was also added to Prop. 1 for 2014. Artillery is an important operational capacity of the Defence and the Stortinge has previously decided that the capacity should be part of the structure. So the Ministry of Defence is working on finding alternatives to Archer. I expect a clarification on the matter during 2014. If, in the process of finding alternatives to Archer, cost and scale changes are proposed in the acquisition project, I will return to the Stortinget with proposals for adjustments. The United States has announced that they are planning to reduce their capacity on air-tank aircraft in Europe. A multi-national solution, in the government’s view, is the most cost-effective solution to meet the needs of Norway and other European nations for air refuelling. Norway is now participating in a cooperation led by the Netherlands, initiated and supported by the European Defence Agency, with a view to establishing a multinational fleet of multi-roll tank and transport aircraft, including clarification of acquisition, operation and maintenance. The possible share of Norway in a multi-national programme has not yet been clarified. We now feel that there seems to be relatively good progress in the meetings and in the project. It was a meeting in Brussels last night, and a week earlier I had a meeting with the Director-General of the EDA on the same topic. The defense's new helicopter will strengthen the Coast Guard and the Naval Defense significantly. The NH90 helicopters will replace the Lynx helicopters of the Coast Guard and be a new capacity for the frigates. A total of fourteen helicopters are acquired, eight in coastguard version and six in frigate version. As you know, deliveries are very late. The causes of delays are the problems of the supplier’s development, certification and delivery of the correct quality. Helicopters should have been delivered between 2005 and 2008. The size has been regularly informed of the delays in deliveries. As of June 2014, Norway has received four helicopters and expects two more by the end of the year. The first six helicopters will be delivered in a preliminary version. The delivery of the last eight and the upgrade of the first six shall be scheduled for the period 2017 to 2020. Although the delay is a total of 12 years, it is gratifying to note that it is now progress. For example, the NH90 was approved for landing on KV Senja in May and further integration flight and testing on vessels can now be carried out. The aim is for Coast Guards to sail with NH90 helicopters from summer 2015. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Committee unanimously joins in the launch of the construction project for new squadron construction in the Orland, and that there is agreement in the Committee to agree to the change in the scope and cost framework of the project for new stations for border guards in South Varanger. Furthermore, I am pleased that the committee is in line with the plan to acquire a new air protection system for our frigates. The government will come back to Stortinget with more information about developments in the projects it is briefed on in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e231	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e234	I want to follow-up on the statements made by the Council of State and the reasons for multinational cooperation in tank and transport aircraft. Governments justify this as the most cost-effective solution. My question will then be: Will it also be the most strategic and willing solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e239	This is something that we, together with other countries, are continuously assessing. It must be able to meet our needs, and it must be ready when needed by us and the other partners involved. At the same time, some of the challenges sometimes arise when you think about multinational cooperation. This means that for us it has been important in this context to seek cooperation with the close NATO allies, among other things. Because then we have easier to work together in an emergency situation than if we, for example, had. had sought cooperation outside the alliance. It should also be said that there are, of course, some challenges related to what has been discussed about public–private cooperation in this context. One of the challenges, at least if one is involved in the discussion on cost issues and, where appropriate, the possibility of making it more reasonable, is to move these planes between civil and military aviation registers. It's a big challenge. So that's why we've chosen to go on with the model that we've outlined here, under Dutch leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e249	I have a question about what I raised in my post in connection with the border guard and the border station. My assessment is that the two investments belong closely together. My question is whether the government is at all assessing a new border station in Storskog, because at today's border station there is a burst of capacity, and we have also registered that the police fear that there will be border crossings beyond their control. I know it doesn't belong to the government department, but the government council is part of the government, and that's why I ask her.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e256	I'd like to answer that. We are well aware of the challenges that exist – they have actually been there for quite many years. Much of that is due to the fact that, happily, there is increased traffic across the border station. It is positive that people for the people-cooperation have had a good development in recent years. How we're going to apply it, the concrete priorities, of course, I can't say anything about now. We have to get back to that in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e265	I want to start by reassuring Simensen that this is also well maintained in the revised, through the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. I want to ask the Council of States about OPS. As I read the message, it is the rejection of the use of OPS in respect of these tankers – which is one of the places you could have thought of OPS in Defense – while the Right Spokeswoman was very positive to OPS from the Spokesman's Chair. So there are two slightly contradictory messages. When we asked the Council of State about the use of the OPS, I thought the Council of State was as reprehensible as the Storing Message, so now I'm a little confused. I believe that OPS could also be used here, and that it must be possible to make arrangements to use OPS in peacetime and convert it into other agreements if we are going to do a hard job. My question is, what does the Right actually mean – what the speaker said, or what the Council of State wrote?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e276	It's important to separate two things here. The government, the state councils and the figures are very positive about the use of OPS, and we want to do that in as many social sectors as possible. But just in the case of multi-roll tank and transport aircraft, we have the challenge – which is not just Norwegian, but it applies to all the nations involved – that moving the planes back and forth between civil and military aviation registers is almost impossible. This would lead to major challenges in the use of aeroplanes, especially in the sharp situations, when we need to use them on standby, and therefore we have chosen not to go further with that solution. I have explained this in detail in a response to the Left's pool in relation to the investment proposition. I would like to see it possible to get here too, but that obstacle means that we would be in a potentially difficult situation when we were going to use the planes in a sharp situation and pick them up from a civil aviation register.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e283	For viewers out there who are not familiar with OPS, public–private cooperation can be said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e286	Thank you for that, President. Then I saved at least two seconds. I'm familiar with the answer the Council of State gave. But I have also been made aware that the Air Safety Authority in Bodø believes that this is not a problem to organise. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to elaborate a little more: Is it the bureaucracy that closes for sensible use of OPS here? Then it's the job of the Council of State to do something about bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e295	I would like to remind you that this is multinational cooperation. As I started with, not only Norway is experiencing this obstacle, it is doing all the countries participating in this multinational cooperation. So that no matter how much I had done with any Norwegian bureaucracy, I think unfortunately it had not helped very much on the challenge. I'm concerned that we're going to have a multi-roll tank and transport aircraft capacity that can solve our needs operationally, and then we have to have them available when we need them. I think all the experience with international operations in recent years has shown that there may be a need for very short notice, and then in that cooperation we must be able to meet both our national needs, and we must, not least, have the ability to operate the planes in sharp situations when needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e302	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e305	The security policy situation in Europe has renewed interest and commitment to defence and security policy, and not least to a greater understanding of the importance of our own defence capabilities and NATO membership. Increasingly, we are taking into account the importance of the collective defence alliance for our security and for the protection of our common values, such as freedom and democracy. Yesterday’s debate on engagement in Afghanistan also highlighted Norway’s role as a significant contributor – in partnership with our allies in NATO – to ensure our interests in a wider context. I would like to stress the need to ensure adequate resources for the defence, to maintain high operational capability and to modernise our capabilities. I am pleased to say that the government is working on that and is committed to giving the defence a sufficient priority in the future, just to ensure that this overall consideration is taken into account. Already last year, during the examination of the supplementary proposal, the defence budget was increased. The Home Guard, the Marine Hunter Command and the Coast Guard were given extended frames. The same is now happening under the revised national budget, with the additional appropriations for foreign operations. You also increase the allocation to the Army and the Home Office, in line with the long-term plan, but something earlier than planned. At the same time, we are dealing with this matter today, where several new and expanded projects are to be approved. The greatest promise, which undoubtedly becomes demanding, is the follow-up to the long-term defence plan – with investments in new combat aircraft, in missiles and in new combat aircraft bases – in such a way that it does not meet other operational and investment needs of the Defence. This means that the framework needs to be increased. In the case of one project, the establishment of the new squadron building for F-35 fighter aircraft on Ørland within a cost framework of 619 million. kr, it implies the start of the first stage of construction in order to realise Stortinget’s decision to establish the new fighter base at Ørland Main Aviation Station – a decision that will provide the Air Force with the very best framework conditions for further development, with top modern base facilities to accommodate the new JSF aeroplanes, with integrated planning and simulator departments, and not least the nearby training and practice venues. In addition, Ørland shall continue to serve as the base for NATO's AWACS aeroplanes. It is ambitious that the building will be completed in the spring of 2016. Defence construction is now part of a process with local authorities and landowners to find good solutions to the land and noise challenges triggered by this large project. I trust that it will be handled in a good way. The importance of our defence with credibility and satisfactory deterrent operational capability cannot be overestimated. The decision we are going to make today is historic. It's the starting point for the largest development project in Defence and in the Central Norway region of our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e324	Currently, Stortinget approves investments that are very important for a good and operational defence. I thank you for a good debate. It is important that there is a broad agreement on defence policy and investment in defence. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to clarify a sentence which should be added to the text of the vote attached to the existing self-defence missile, Evolved SeaSparrow Missile, ESSM, which was developed in the 1990s. That sentence reads as follows: ‘In addition, current stocks of ESSM will be extended for life’.» On behalf of the Committee, I request that the phrase be added to the opinion. Otherwise, I refer you to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e340	The rapporteur has then made some clarifications. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e371	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President of the case and 5 minutes to the other speakers from each group, as well as 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e378	This case concerns the reporting by the Ombudsman of the Defence Agency of the activities between 1 January and 31. of December 2013. The Ombudsman of the Defence shall contribute to ensuring the rights of defence personnel and to dealing with matters of a fundamental nature or with a high level of societal interest. The Ombudsman thus has a very central and important function in our society. In order for the defence to function well, it is important that the personnel thrive in the service. Security investigation has been carried out, and here the defense comes out with a very good score: eight out of ten thrive well in the defense, and about. half of the servants have been favourably set aside for further service in the Defence. It's a pleasure that girls are more positively positioned to continue in Defense than boys. More than two thirds respond that the initial service has been expected, or better. The Committee has noted that close to one in four girls respond that during their time in Defense they have been exposed to undesirable sexual behaviour, or other undesirable behaviour based on sex, which violates their integrity in the service. The Committee is concerned about this high proportion of people who have experienced this, and the Committee expects the defence to take these problems seriously and to follow this up further, so that in the future girls in the defence will feel that their integrity is being respected. Since our defense is based on duty of protection, it is very gratifying that 80 pst. by young people, there is still a need for protection in our country. The protection obligation ensures the recruitment of defence across social and cultural lines. In the light of the above, a review of the selection criteria for initial service and training should be carried out. Too many guardians are awarded by way of attendance for first-time service. According to the report, 2000 of approx. 11,000 met, and initially this seems to be an excessive proportion. After details from the Defence to nuance this picture, in 2013 1321 were awarded the first week of education, of which a large proportion were granted deferral on their own initiative because of the job or school situation. In addition, there were 667 people who, for various reasons, did not complete the initial service. So it's a little misleading to just say that 2,000 people are being discharged at the show. I expect the Minister of Defence to confirm the nuanced information we have received from the Defence Department. A repetition of the annual reports has been that the guardians want more ‘green service’, i.e. soldier's skills and shooting training. Whereas it is a good thing that the members of the Committee are required to do so and that the Committee is satisfied that it is now specified in the initial provisions that the soldiers should exercise these basic individual skills throughout their service; It seems that several have now received the necessary soldier training, but not all have received the shooting training they should have. This is a matter on which the focus should be maintained. In the case of security clearance, this still takes too much time. This is a matter which has been referred to several times by the Committee. It is a problem that security clearance is often not available until the soldier has almost finished the initial service, and for the permanent employees, a lack of security clearance will result in the individual not getting the job they are looking for. There is also a problem that individuals will not be given access to any refusal of safety clearance, and this leads to the individual feeling that they are being put in a state of inviolability. The EOS Committee is now dealing with complaints concerning security clearance, and I therefore refer to the comments on security clearance in the setting of Document 7:3, which relate to the annual report of the EOS Committee for 2013. As this is an area which has been a reoccurrence, the Committee would like to see feedback in the annual reports on the evolution of this situation. The Committee has been concerned over several years about the situation of the veterans and has indicated that this needs to be followed up. According to the report, the situation appears to have improved. The Committee considers that close follow-up is still necessary in order to ensure cooperation between the Defence, Municipalities, Nav and the State pension fund, so that the veterans do not become caste balls in the system. The Committee will follow up this area and would like feedback in the annual communications on the evolution of this situation. The Committee shares the view that defence officials are given the opportunity to express their views on defence matters without being seen as unfair. It is shown here, among others. to the defence's own basic ethical rules, which state that ‘employees, like everyone else, have a fundamental right to participate in the public debate, including the activities of the defence sector’. Trust in the defence and between the defence and the public is built primarily by transparency. The Committee considers that debate and opinions should be promoted and welcomed, as well as those that could be perceived as difficult. It is gratifying that previously highly critical living conditions now appear to have been rectified, but the committee sees that there is still something to do in this field before reaching a satisfactory standard anywhere. The Committee notes that the Committee welcomes an evaluation of all aspects of Norway's action in Afghanistan, including, inter alia, the following: distinction between civil and military efforts. In this evaluation, a description of the contractual relationship between the Defence and Norwegian personnel and the related procedures should also be provided. Good and predictable agreements will help to mitigate the need for contractual interpretations and help soldiers and officers feel well cared for by the Defence. The Committee expects the defence to resolve a dispute between the defence and some officials in Afghanistan about understanding the holiday law. This is a matter which, in the opinion of the Committee, has taken far too long. Then I'll go to Document 6. By decision of the European Parliament on 3 September 2013, the instructions for the Ombudsman’s Civil Protection Ombudsman were repealed. The decision was a logical consequence of the formal termination of civil service in February 2012. However, as this service reports to the Storting every four years, the Ombudsman considers it appropriate to provide a final report for the period, which is thus from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2013. The Ombudsman’s Civil Protection Tribunal was established in 1956 by extending the scope of the Ombudsman’s defence to civil servants. The Ombudsman and the denominator have thus had a two-sided function since 1956. The Committee points out that this division of activities of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman has worked satisfactorily for all parties until the closure in 2012. For the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010, the following definitions shall apply: no inspections or cases were carried out on December 2013. As civil service no longer exists, pending cases are dealt with by the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. The Committee has noted that the archives of the civil service for the period 1947-2012 have been transferred to the National Archives of Oslo and that those who need documentation can obtain them directly from the National Archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e422	The system of the Ombudsman and the member of the Ombudsman for Defence has long and good traditions in this country – so good that other countries actually look to the system we have in Norway. Before I go further, I will give a general consideration, which concerns not only the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman for Defence but also a general development of society. In my view, it is a challenge in the way we organise ourselves with ever more independent supervision and representation when they come into cross-border matters for policy assessments. In other words, what are different representations and supervision to handle, and what are policy authorities to do? Storing and government shall not be involved in individual cases dealt with by various agents. However, when we now deal with a general case on the Ombudsman’s defence subject, i.e. the 2013 report, I allow myself to make some general considerations based on observations over several years. Then I think I would say that there seemed to be a development in which the defence Ombudsman engaged in matters and questions which were at least in the border country for what is expected of the Ombudsman to engage in. Let me give you an example: the Ministry of Defence and the Stortinget wanted to establish a clearer regulation on which types of beekeeping Norwegian officers could take on, i.e. to what extent Norwegian officers could take on a task for others than the Defense. There were some unfortunate incidents in which questions could be asked whether it was right for officers to take on commissions for others – we cannot have it so that we have private officers in this country. This involved the Ombudsman for the defence, or rather he committed himself strongly against the cleaning up that was done. It was probably part of the Ombudsman's commitment. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank those who were members of the Ombudsman during the previous period. In my opinion, in the areas I have now mentioned, a good job was done in the previous period, and it was cleared up in what was called the role of the Ombudsman, and what was the role of the Ombudsman. I must also say that the annual reports we receive to the Grand Duchy have improved over the years and give a better picture of what the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman are doing. I note that the new Ombudsman and the Vice-Chairman of the Ombudsman are present here today. They do a good job, they should take this with them to the other members of the denominator, and we should wish the new denominator happiness with important work during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e435	The Ombudsman’s presentation shows that more than two out of three people in the service believe that the service has become better than expected. For women, to a greater extent than for men, the service has become better than expected. It's very joyful. Nevertheless, as the rapporteur said, there are a number of women who are exposed to undesirable sexual behaviour. This is something that violates their integrity in the service. That is why an overall committee looks at this high proportion with concern and expects these problems to be taken seriously and followed up. It is a big and difficult theme that every leader must have an alert look at – from the top to the bottom of the organisation. It is also in the Committee's position that there should be protection obligations here on land. It implies, as it is today, that there is a choice among all those who are able to serve. So they have a right to protect the country, but the content of it, as it is practiced today, is that it's a little too late to say that it's a duty to protect. A duty of protection is an obligation of every citizen. When the defense is organized so that you don't need all the men who are able to serve at these age limits, it's a little strong to say that we still have a duty to protect. In reality, we have today a protective right for those women and men who want to go in and spend a year or other time frame on this. What is central to this issue is what is also in the setting, that in the system we have, is – across social and cultural dividing lines – the recruitment model that we have, superior. I would like to stress that on behalf of the Centre Party. It's a superior recruitment model for the defense of the country when one chooses among all the teams of the people, who thus gets a relationship with defending their country if it's required. Otherwise there's a little thing I want to comment on. It's about leadership in the defense. The Chief Defence Officer has drawn up a document entitled The Chief Defence Officer’s Fundamental View of Management. This is a sub-communicated document, which, in my view, has a high quality in it. It is based on mission-based management. It is based on a common sense of reality between people in the first line and in the management of the organisation. It is an organisational model that creates trust, creates community, and has a continuous learning – and through it an ever-increasing improvement. It is an organisational model, an organisational culture, that benefits far more from reading about and adapting to public activities. It also reduces the need for public disclosure of their work in defence. When one has such a model where there is a close interaction – a common sense of reality – between the first line and the management, has a continuous process that allows conditions that can be improved to be addressed internally. What the Ombudsman has said about is the question of what access is available to regulate or penalise the opinions of employees. Finally, I would like to make it clear that there has been a good discussion in the committee about this, and it says in the setting: ‘In the view of the Committee, debate and opinions should therefore be promoted and welcomed to a large extent. This also applies to opinions and debates on issues that may be perceived as difficult, such as the structure of defence, strength elements, and, for example, defence. international operations in which Norway participate.» This is something the leadership of the Defence and Defence Department should note, for this is the Committee’s opinion – to improve the entire organisation, too, so that one does a better job related to the tasks one is assigned to serve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e453	It is a unanimous committee behind today's vote. There is nevertheless a need to comment on some things. I will first comment on some of Sverre Myrli's representatives, who are not in the position, namely the discussion of ombudsman arrangements at all. SV does not share the view that there are too many ombudsman schemes, on the contrary, I believe that more is needed – because these are good arrangements to assist individuals in dealing with management and various public systems, and because there is an important way to also control a little at system level and get an overview of what is happening. I think this is a much better control and correction option than many of the other control mechanisms put in. I don't share the critical angle of incidence. One of the points we've agreed on in the committee is to put a special searchlight on the fact that one in four girls answers that they have been exposed to unwanted sexual behavior during their time in the defense, and that violates their integrity in the service. This is a high number. But when we see other national surveys both on violence and on assault against women, this is really no surprise. It kind of mirrors society. This problem is in defense, it's in society else, and it has to be taken seriously everywhere, because this has to end. Firstly, it is a real violation of integrity and respect for other people, but it also leads to real discrimination because there are are arenas and areas where women cannot participate on equal terms. There are many girls who end up in Defense, for example, and this is probably one of the reasons some of them have. So this is a serious problem, and then it's not that you just have to take measures to feel safe and respect, but that you actually have it. You have to be safe, and you have to be respected as a woman. In the defense, it's going to be system and order, and I expect the defense to have a system and order that will enable them to grasp this in a systematic way and target the values that must be at the bottom – in the defense as elsewhere in society. But I know I've been to some discussions about this otherwise, for example. related to international conventions, human rights and how military forces are also obliged to comply with special rules even when in war and crisis. That's why we have the rules – we don't need them so much in everyday life and in peace – and it's a bit of the same thing that we have to implement these rules as mandatory standards on how to behave. I also want to get into this with the veterans, because it's important as it says in the setting, that this is a concept that applies to those who have served in armed forces, but that it extends far beyond those who have participated in international operations. It's important. Here I think we have a lot more to do. We are constantly getting cases from the veterans on the table, and it is good that we should also now carry out an evaluation on contractual relations for persons who have been in foreign affairs and that the evaluation to be carried out should look at all aspects of Norway's action in Afghanistan, including questions of coordination, the distinction between civil and military action. I have had a lot of contact with the veterans lately, linked to an asylum case where the veterans say that local employees who have gone in Norwegian uniform and helped them are also a veteran – one has made an effort with us. So I think here we have to go through what it really is we have of systems for this, so that we take care of those who have been veterans and those who have made an effort for Norway in all areas, in a good way. Finally, this with freedom of expression: in fact, SV calls for a much wider debate on defence and military issues in the public domain and wants the military to participate more strongly in it. Therefore, it is important to stress that opinions, including those of the military, must be able to include criticism of the social conditions that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e470	I just want to use the opportunity to sign out some questions. I first take up what both the representative Lundtägen and the representative Karin Andersen mention about unwanted sexual attention, or sexual harassment. I can assure you that this is something we from the Ministry of Defence and the Defence take seriously. We have just completed a research project called Masculine Culture in Defence. There are especially two findings there that are very interesting. One is that the common tradition you have, that you take it up with your closest superior, is not good enough. You have to go higher in the system to get leaders at all levels to understand that this is a problem. That's also the way you get rid of it to a greater degree. The second very interesting finding from this research project – and that doesn't mean you can transfer it to all departments and all situations, far from it – was that one thing that had a very positive impact on this field was the use of common space for boys and girls. Then there were boys and girls of the same level, and it turned out that there were boys in the room who took it up if they felt that the girls were being harassed. So there's a lot of positive and interesting findings here that we're going to base on in our further work. Once again, that doesn't mean that there should be common space everywhere. But there's an interesting find in the context. The second thing I would like to make is the question of veterans. We have a much greater attention today on veterans than was the case a few years ago. I'm very pleased about that, for our veterans who have served out or at home deserve all the honor and recognition they can get, and we have a responsibility to take care of them before, during and after duty. In the government, we are now working on a new follow-up plan for veterans where we are seven ministries that go together. The reason why we do that is that the defense over the years has become a lot better at taking care of their veterans, but there is still a lot left to meet with the civil auxiliaries. There may be Nav, the State pension fund, the specialist health service, the family protection office — at all quite a number of other actors than the Defence. That is why we have been committed to including and responsible the entire government for that work, and that plan will be submitted in a short time. I would also like to make a brief nod of what the rapporteur asked for, the figures for how many are awarded at their own request. The picture is more nuanced than what the Ombudsman presented, where they use the figure of 2000 to be graduated. I have to get back to the exact number, because there may be some problems in the calculation method. But I would like to respond to that in a letter to the committee – if the committee so wishes, the committee will have the right number. At the end of the day, I can also gladly sign out one of the issues mentioned in the vote, namely that it has been a challenge related to the holiday law. In conclusion, the Committee would point out that: ‘The Ombudsman received a positive reply from the Minister of Defence’ – this happened last November – ‘but by the end of 2013 nothing had yet happened in the case. The Committee expects the defence to follow up as soon as possible.’ I can then enjoy the committee that it has done so. There's been a long discussion, this is going on for years. However, the Ministry of Defence received a request for compensation for the loss of well-being under the holiday law. It was then claimed that the negotiated special agreement could not be seen in international operations in connection with the provisions of the holiday law. The Ministry has then recognised that the original interpretation can no longer be maintained, including that the provisions on days of leave and recreation in the special agreement do not compensate for a breach of the holiday law. On 5 June, a legal settlement was concluded between the parties, and the ministry is now working to inform both the organisations and those concerned about this. Then I can positively close the post by saying that this challenge is now solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e497	Yes, thank you. Nothing better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e500	I just want to – for those who had to follow up on the debate or once in the future had to read the record from it – after Karin Andersen's posts clarify something. She said that she did not share my view that there were too many representatives. I didn't say that – I didn't say there were too many agents. But I said it's challenging with ever more independent representatives and supervision in society. It was a general consideration – I think I would say about the nature of the policy – and so it was not particularly the case with the Defence Ombudsman, who is perhaps the oldest of all the agents we have. My point is that more independent representatives, more independent supervision, can restrict the political space and political discretion. I'm not saying that we should cut out agents and supervision, but at least I'm saying that we should pay attention to the challenge that, in my opinion, it can create. In the end, let's never forget that we are elected by the people, who are the highest representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e511	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e525	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e532	All monitoring carried out shall have one objective in mind: to safeguard our common security. The fact that intelligence takes place legally and is under democratic control in Norway is important for public confidence and security and for the EOS services themselves. The annual report we are considering today shows that the work of the EOS Committee contributes to that. They ensure that the services extend to manage the task they have been given and are given the opportunity to improve. In order for trust to be optimal, control must also be allowed to be so. Therefore, it is so important that the EOS Committee has the ability to carry out the checks they see are necessary, that they have the resources they need, that they have the transparency they need, and that they are given the opportunity to evolve in line with the EOS services. Time does not allow me to review all the topics covered by the annual report, but I stress that the Committee is in line with the evaluations and suggestions for improvements. However, I will make some comments on the main challenges we have. The committee's tasks are growing. An example of this, as the Committee notes, is that in 2013, the sample received 47 complaints against 21 and 29 complaints in 2011 and 2012 respectively. It illustrates why it is positive that the secretariat of the sample has been strengthened in recent years. The use of hidden coercive agents by PST has increased. In 2013, the PST sample criticised for errors in requests to telecommunications operators for communication control assistance, which has in some cases exceeded the authorisation of the law on the use of coercive measures. I'm sorry. When cooperation between different services and monitoring extends beyond borders, control options must do the same. The Committee welcomes the Committee's contacts with several foreign and international control bodies in order to strengthen more effective democratic control. It is positive that the additional provisions for the collection of the E service against Norwegian persons abroad and for the provision of personal data to foreign cooperating services were made publicly available in 2013. The Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice must take particular responsibility for clarifying the writing, legal basis and the possibility of independent democratic control of the use of sources by secret services and their storage. The Committee expects digital and physical archives to be set up in such a way that future controls can be carried out without the assistance of the department itself. The basis for our trust in the services is that they are possible to control, without those being controlled helping to do so. Many of the questions raised in the annual report require answers that are larger than those that the Storting can now provide. Therefore, the Committee is aware that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy has set up a selection to look at the work of the EOS Committee. The Committee has given them more tasks in the past, and I would like to stress that it is natural to give us all and the EOS Committee an answer in the work on transparency. The EOS Committee again asks the Stortingen to clarify the transparency of its annual report, and it is time that that answer came. Does the Storting believe that the provisions of law and instructions should apply in full to the E service as well? Is the decision of the Grand Duchy to be maintained in 1999? These are questions that the Storting must answer, and it is high time. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party refer to the full statement by the EOS Committee on questions concerning the individual to be made aware of any information which is over 30 years of age, which has been recorded about him, and not least of any information that was not recorded there. These members agree with the opinions of the EOS Committee and therefore request that the government return to the Stortinget with proposals for a permanent transparency mechanism, as proposed by the EOS Committee. As I said at the outset, the committee joins in the committee's other comments and expectations regarding things that should be put in order by the services. The Committee welcomes the fact that the sample points out that e-services are generally concerned with showing transparency and trust through their priorities, the provision of intelligence gathered and the organisation of the control of the sample. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e553	Thanks to the rapporteur who presented the matter in a transparent and straightforward way. It is essentially a unanimous committee which stands together on most of the comments. What I was going to stress on this occasion is what the sample deals with in its report to the Stortinget, the basis for monitoring cooperation involving intelligence services outside the country's borders. In Norway and the Nordic countries, we have developed – as of course – control mechanisms where we use, as part of democratic governance, that there is also democratic control of what intelligence services do in open democracies. We rely on international cooperation to address the radar potential threats to the country and to Norwegian interests abroad. But in one area, there seems to be a constant fear of being in arrears, and that is the technological control of the information. The documents here deal with democratic control, but the question remains so: the technological control that information on Norwegian citizens remains in the country for the protection of the privacy of Norwegian citizens. To the extent that Norwegian citizens, who operate in the country, are subject to further demarcation, control and other more incisive measures, the Norwegian authorities and Norwegian legal systems regulate the treatment of Norwegian citizens. I'm not in doubt that we have a good enough code on paper, but we've seen that international telecommunications providers and others who provide software solutions get access to users' personal data in a way that can be used intelligenceally, not just at an aggregate level, but where you can get detailed knowledge of individuals. The question for the future will increasingly be whether, in addition to normal national sovereignty, we can also enforce what I would call communication and information sovereignty. That's a big question. If you read the government statement, I see that this idea has been started, because there has just been a reference to the point of cross-border data screening, and you will come back in an appropriate way and inform about the access of other countries to the data traffic of Norwegian citizens. I will end by saying that democratic control, with all the beauty spots that will always occur, seems to be functional and work according to purpose, while the major problems lie in the great technological possibilities that information about Norwegian citizens ends up in completely different servers outside the country's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e566	The EOS Committee shall keep the secret services under constant control. It is a central task for the sample to verify that the e-service does not commit any injustice against the individual. The EOS Committee shall ensure that services operate within the framework of laws, regulations and instructions in accordance with human rights. There is a clear need for international legislation to protect citizens' privacy from unlawful State and private surveillance. There is also a need for enhanced international cooperation between governmental bodies to control the secret services. We are aware, through the annual report, that the EOS Committee has taken initiatives in different ways to achieve this to a greater extent than in the past. We're satisfied with that. International cooperation between secret services is cross-border, while control is largely nationally limited. This just underlines the importance of transparency in intelligence activities and, in particular, clear legislation for national services. We note with satisfaction that the sample conducts routine monitoring of the information exchange of services also with collaborative services. At the same time, compliance with the control directive’s requirement to ‘as far as possible take into account the protection of sources and the protection of data received from abroad’. There is little doubt that the audits carried out by the EOS Committee have contributed to ensuring the legal certainty of individuals, thereby also enhancing people’s confidence in the e-services operating within their legal framework. It is important that we can trust that services are controlled, and in this way the sample does a good job. We record that the 2013 sample has received a significantly larger number of complaints than in the previous two years. From the Christian People's Party we are also positive that the sample has created matters on its own initiative. Due to increasing workload, it has been necessary to make more resources available to the sample. Strengthening the Secretariat has been necessary, which in turn has led to improved preparation of inspections. Several cases have been raised on their own initiative, unannounced inspections have been implemented and the sample has been able to work more in-depth on individual projects, such as: has also led to several specific messages to Stortinget. It is also necessary to further strengthen the Secretariat in the future, as has already been done to a certain extent in the current revised national budget. Otherwise, we will show that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy has set up a sample to evaluate the work of the EOS Committee and the legal framework within which the sample works. The mandate was extended following the involvement of the Control and Constitutional Committee, including the structure of cooperation between the EOS Committee and the secret services, and, inter alia, the organisation of cooperation between the EOS Committee and the secret services. the question of ensuring democratic control of the surveillance of Norwegian citizens by foreign countries was included in the mandate. There is reason to express satisfaction with the work carried out by the sample. From the Christian People's Party we look positively at the sample itself, namely that the E-service is generally concerned with showing transparency and trust through its priorities and its organisation for the control of the sample. I refer you to the rapporteur's presentation of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e594	Monitoring is important and serious, and it is crucial for confidence in the secret services in Norway that the existing laws and guidelines on data collection and storage are followed. Based on experience, there is a need for a very high level of precision from the Storting side to ensure this noble objective: monitoring should be legal and democratic. As can be seen from the setting, the Presidency of the Grand Duchy has set up a selection to evaluate the work of the EOS Committee and the legal framework within which the sample works. This was pointed out in the letter of 3 June 2013 from the Control Committee, which further expanded the scope of the sample. What I would particularly like to point out is the need to discuss in the mandate: how to ensure Norwegian democratic control of the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by foreign countries. This is nothing new. This does not apply only to some countries. How many countries there are that know. Many people are interested in monitoring Norwegian citizens. Experience has shown that. It is therefore important to answer the relevant questions and it is important that the sample set up is able to carry out a check on cooperation with foreign services. It is natural for the Storting to clarify the transparency in this context. In conclusion, I would say that it would have been an advantage for the Stortinget if the selection to discuss how to ensure Norwegian, democratic control of the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by foreign countries, presented it in different alternatives, so that one can see different ways of doing so. So you can see what's the difference in the different ways of thinking, and so you can present the matter in a more thorough way, so that we get a greater sense of and control over what we're doing here, so that we ensure that it's done in a better way. Because there have been enough of the issues that have shown that in the democratic control of the surveillance of Norwegian citizens by foreign countries, there is a considerable amount of work to be done, and it is one of the most important things that must be done by the selection that the Presidency of the European Parliament has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e609	We have an EOS committee that does a very important job, and that does a job I think it's highly trusted in both the Storing and the people. It works well. But we are facing many new and major challenges, both technologically and by having allies who do not have the same ideals as we do when it comes to privacy and the processing of information. It demands us both in view of what we are working with the services of foreign countries about and in view of the closer cooperation between the E service and the PST, which is politically desired. It's a big control task, and it's a big control challenge for the EOS Committee, and I hope that the presidency – now I'm really talking to the President – will take on board the new challenges facing the EOS Committee, and that the Storting, also those parties that are not in the presidency, are properly involved in the handling of the committee's budget. I think the EOS committee needs to be strengthened in the future because of all the challenges I've faced. If we're going to continue to have an EOS selection with equal confidence in both the Storing and the people in general, we have to make sure they do their job. I would also like to highlight what Tetzschner said in his statement, namely the constant challenge of seeing what is within the Supervisory Authority of the EOS Committee and what is within the Supervisory Authority of the Data Protection Authority is almost in the process of being met and challenged. There's something we have to take over in this room. We have to look at the rise of the border in terms of how the two inspections are supposed to enforce their supervision, in terms of seafaring, if we see that they are currently overseeing very different areas, we see that there are still areas where they meet. It is also a challenge for the Ministry of Justice to ensure that we have a regulatory framework that actually raises the gap between the supervisory authority of the Data Protection Authority and the supervisory authority of the EOS Committee, and that both institutions have the resources to do that supervisory work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e620	First, I would like to join the rapporteur's excellent introduction, and I would like to make some comments in addition to that. From the SV side, we really look forward to the review that's going to be by the EOS selection. There's a sample reduced, and it's going to work with the entire width of it. It's absolutely necessary that we do this, and several of the other speakers have been asking why. I would like to agree with what the representative Skei Grande from the Left was now up and said, it is important that the presidency now follows, so that there is enough resources for this complicated work. There is no doubt that this needs to be strengthened in the future and that they need sufficient expertise to review some of these systems that are being set up and that are difficult to understand. Because that's what Skei Grande said, that we also have allies who don't have the same standard of privacy, transparency and democracy that we have. When most things are internationalized, this is extra demanding. I would like to quote some of the things in the setting: ‘In terms of human rights, there is a clear need for international legislation to protect citizens’ privacy from unlawful State and private surveillance. International cooperation between governmental bodies is also needed to control their secret services. Over the last few years, the sample has been in close contact with several foreign and international control bodies, including: through seminars, conferences aimed at strengthening the exchange of information and advice for more effective democratic control.’;» [[...]] I stress this because here you have to have tools that make this actually work, and the call for a clearer international code in this area, which the sample points to, I think we have a clear political commitment to follow up. In addition, I would like to stress the comments made by the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV on the matter of access rights and documents that are more than 30 years old. I would like to stress that there is a need for the government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for a permanent transparency mechanism, as proposed by the sample. In addition, I would like to point out that SV has made its own proposals, where we believe that there is a need to set up a specific committee to give an opinion to the Stortinge on the appointment of, and mandate for, a Commission to examine and assess the overall monitoring to which Norwegian citizens are exposed. There shouldn't be so much imagination to understand that it's possible to monitor Norwegian citizens in a completely different way now than it was before, because we live in the data age, and revelations, especially from abroad, show that there are a lot of people who can imagine doing it and think of it as being useful. I perceive that there is a broad political consensus in Norway that democratic control should be exercised over this monitoring, and then it is necessary to go through and have a very clear and actual picture of the overall scope of the monitoring being carried out, and I think that those boundaries may be moving from day to day because there are developments in this area that make it difficult to see through and have an overview of this. So the challenges that the representative Tetzschner pointed to, SV fully agrees with. We see them, and I think we're a little bit 'on the heel' in many areas of this field. That's why there's really a need to have this total review that SV has asked for, which unfortunately we haven't got a majority for yet, but I hope that next round we can get the support of a majority, which makes us get the overview we actually need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e645	Let me very briefly touch on some of the areas mentioned in the annual report of the EOS Committee. One is that there was no reason to criticise any of the nine complaints received against the E-service. The second is that the technical procurement carried out by the E-service has also not provided a basis for criticism. There is no criticism of the employment relationship between the Intelligence Service and the PST. One particular issue, which is worth mentioning, is that in its control of foreign collaborative services, the sample came across a case where no information from Norwegian intelligence service was exchanged for a foreign service, as there was doubt that his fundamental human rights would be respected by this service. It gives the Intelligence Service Selection commendation, and it is also fully in line with the guidelines given by the Ministry. Being able to have an effective intelligence service is crucial for a nation, and it is also important that the intelligence service can provide information in time for us to use that information to protect us. However, it is equally important to have good and solid democratic control over the activities of services. It shall be reliable and independent. I am very pleased that the sample starts its annual report by making clear that the EOS services have consistently shown a good understanding of the sample's control in 2013. Let me briefly address a matter that has been specifically mentioned both in the sample report and in the setting: the basis for the processing of sensitive personal data by the intelligence service on third parties in connection with the use of sources. There has been a discussion here as to whether the basis of origin is sufficient. There is no doubt that the Intelligence Service Act § 4, second paragraph, authorises the processing of personal data in general, and this is not the issue either. The question is whether it also covers the processing of sensitive personal data and meets legal requirements under Section 9 of the Data Protection Act. We have now gone through this matter, as it was announced when we had this discussion in April. We have looked at the purpose of the second paragraph of Section 4, as well as the processing, practice and real considerations of the law. The information in question is also not covered — it is important to underline — but is derived from information provided voluntarily and is related to the source. The information will also be subject to control by the EOS Committee. It is our opinion that the second paragraph of Section 4 of the Information Service Act in force provides a sufficiently clear basis for the processing of sensitive personal data by the service. In this context, it is clarified that the general requirements of the Data Protection Act relating, inter alia, to: the purpose, necessity and relevance of the service is fully applicable to the processing of personal data by the service in general and is reflected in the internal rules and guidelines of the service. The second issue I want to make is the question of transparency in the Intelligence Service. This is a system that concerns a few very sensitive issues. These cases are without prejudice to the legal certainty of Norwegian citizens and fall substantially outside the control mandate of the sample. The cases are of such sensitivity that compromises have enormous potential for damage to Norway. This is the consideration behind the scheme established by the Stortinget in 1999, and it is at least as strong today. This arrangement was initiated by Minister of Defence Kosmo in 1997 and has been followed by all defence ministers since then. It was confirmed by the Stortinget both in 1999 and 2009. It is important to stress that there has never been a need to raise these matters to the Minister of Defence or, in the utmost sense, to the Storting because the very few cases mentioned have been resolved in dialogue between the EOS Committee and the Intelligence Service. I see that the Committee still wants to discuss this system, despite the fact that it has been followed by all the governments and defence ministers from various parties since 1997. But I think that should be done, it is appropriate that it be done in relation to the work that the Solbakken Committee is about to do. So in the end, the committee points out the lack of and delay in feedback from the national safety authority and the length of the procedure as a general problem. This I take very seriously. We have been clear in our governance dialogue with NSM that this work must be followed up. It is also the case that in these days NSM implements a new personnel safety tool. An experience database has been established from previous cases, which hopefully will also facilitate the processing time. The fact that NSM has had an increase of 92 pst. in clearance requests from 2012, is a contributing cause, but it is now a problem that we hope we can solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e666	Let me first be allowed to begin by saying that I am incredibly concerned that we are going to have an EOS selection that has the necessary resource access to make an effective control. The EOS Committee is actually a kind of guarantee that we have secret services and security services – EOS services – which have the necessary legitimacy. In the last period, I was delighted to lead the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. There was an ongoing discussion about whether the capacity of the EOS Committee was satisfactory in meeting the new control challenges we are facing. I'm not going to interfere in the Storting's handling of that issue, but as the Council of State, I'm still very concerned that we have an efficient, good and resource-intensive EOS selection, which can carry out the control that we all depend on to be done in a proper way. That's what I've decided to think of the EOS committee doing. PST has also been criticised this year for processing personal data outside established archives and registers. I'm assuming that PST hasn't made this conscious. I also record what the EOS committee has written about this. But it's not, as I've read it, an attempt to deliberately keep information out of control of the EOS Committee. I am also very pleased that the EOS Committee in general has expressed and underlined that the PST is complying with the comments of the EOS Committee, and that they are largely in agreement with the interpretation of the Code by the panel. I think we have to be clear that there may be a disagreement from time to time about the interpretation of the legislation. You have to accept that there may be discussions around. But it is the Storting as a whole, not least in dealing with these matters we have today, that helps to clarify the final possible interpretation challenges. I have registered that there have not been such challenges for this control period, and I am pleased about that. The legislation of the PST states that the service must have one intelligence register, and the reason behind that rule is, of course, that this register ensures compliance with the data processing legislation. It ensures the quality of the data and the timely evaluation of the data and that it is subject to the necessary checks. A number of measures have been taken in the field of PST, including: as a result of this case, when it was revealed material that was not registered in the ordinary register. An intelligence course has been completed. New training has been completed and a reorganisation has been carried out in the service, which has resulted in a new intelligence doctrine, aimed at ensuring targeted data collection and greater emphasis on intelligence management. I believe that this reorganisation will significantly strengthen the intelligence profession, and that greater emphasis will be placed on the quality of the data processed, rather than on the quantity. I have noticed that the EOS Committee has commented on the question of the registration of the Northmen in the U.S. terrorist screening center register and on the transmission of information to this database – Terrorist Screening List. This concerns persons linked to terrorism. A smaller number of persons have been listed on the basis of information submitted by PST, but the sample was made known by PST that a number of other persons associated with Norway were listed, without the knowledge of who had entered those names, the purpose of the processing, or who was the end-user of the information. The PST had asked questions about this to the US authorities and had not received an answer. I want to draw attention to the fact that we are following this question up to the US authorities in a relevant way. So I have noticed both the comments of the EOS Committee and the Committee in the areas that are under my constitutional responsibility, and will, of course, follow them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e684	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e687	I also refer to the rapporteur's good review of the position on this matter, which is largely unanimous. I would also like to express what others have done, and say: from my point of view, monitoring – both military and civil – is of great importance to Norwegian society. There is no reason to believe that these services do not comply with the provisions given. I'm also scouting the good work of the EOS Committee. Everything is now to be evaluated, but there is reason in this debate to stress that the Committee's view is that the EOS Committee is doing a good job. When I take the word, there's one consideration. That is what is included in a minority note, which has been discussed for a long time, and which relates to this 30-year disclosure limit. It is good that both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice are here. It is true, as it is said, that the practice that has been followed has been followed, even under other governments. That's absolutely correct. But when the EOS committee writes what they're now writing to the Storting, where they think we have a legal security challenge, the question is whether we're not going to try to look at it together. For my part, I have come to the point that we should do it. That is why the Workers' Party supports the remark asking the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for a permanent transparency mechanism, as proposed by the EOS Committee. I think we should deal with that, because it lies there as a problem and a challenge for all of us, which is a little daunting the whole of the intelligence work. I don't think this will be a problem, either for the PST or possibly the E-service if such a practice is introduced in another way. The legal certainty of individual citizens should be a priority here. However, there should be – as the EOS Committee says – exceptional provisions, which ensure that the services are screened where necessary. Then you'll be able to find a balance that's right and necessary. I hope that the two ministers take note of this. Although this is a minority comment, it will be important to try to reach an agreement at this point, so that we simply clear this problem out of the world. That would be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e694	The security policy situation is characterised by a complex and sometimes variable threat picture. Therefore, it is so important that the secret services cooperate in a good way and can continuously assess the threats involved and provide good safety recommendations. I notice that the EOS Committee has also, this time, been working closely with the PST and the E-service, looking into whether cooperation is within the legal framework and does not go beyond the respective responsibilities of the departments. The conclusion of the sample is that cooperation is getting better and better within the jurisdiction that exists. I also notice that the counter-terrorism centre is now in place. As the head of the E-service said, this is an important mechanism of cooperation for the flow of information and to achieve the best possible results. There is also a recommendation from the Gjørv Commission that is now effective. A small country such as Norway is completely dependent on international cooperation to provide a good intelligence service. As the sample covers, there is a small paradox that cooperation is cross-border while control is national. This is a challenge that the sample should address — how to make the control of secret services more cross-border. High quality secret services are crucial in the fight against terrorism. We see that there is a clear emergence of international legislation aimed at exposing terrorism. Then it is important that the Storting at each crossroads, when we are in such situations and are to assess whether we should extend the legal basis for the secret services, ensure that the measures are democratically anchored, that they are targeted, and that they are predictable for the inhabitants – and not least that we do not initiate massive information gathering from the broad sections of the population. In 2013, there were 28 000 security clearances to be made. It's in itself a very high number. I have to say that I was thinking in my quiet mind when I read that number: do you think maybe you're doing a little overstatement? That's a question I'm asking. It does not have to be answered, but I noticed the Minister's reply that this is a serious challenge. This should be looked at in more detail. There is no sustainable situation. This can lead to important societal tasks either getting under way late or actually being harmed. So in that way I am reassured by the Minister's posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e709	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e723	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e730	The committee’s study has not shown that the PST has monitored individuals only on the basis of their political beliefs or links with political organisations — and that is good. Nevertheless, it raises some questions that need clarification, and I'm going to attach myself a little bit to them. First, what is the difference between a source and an infiltrator? None of them are legal information gathering measures, yet they require different consideration for themselves and the service. This case shows that there is a need for the service to develop legislation that draws up the boundaries between the collection methods and also states what criteria a person should be considered as a source and how far the service as part of the leadership should guide him towards new persons or new environments. The security of the person is also a natural issue in this respect. So the next question, who is it that we can trust? In this case, we are faced with two conflicting claims: the source states on his side that he was asked to supply lists of members of the International Socialists, and on the other hand, the official says that he has not asked for it, but that the source on his own initiative gave the PST some written material, but it was thrown. The official does not remember that the material included membership lists. The official also explains that he has not asked for such lists. Now no written evidence has been found that the lists of members of the International Socialists have been requested by the PST, received by the service or stored. But this question is larger than this single thing. We need to have a greater degree of writtenness in oral agreements concluded between sources and officials in order to have the opportunity to verify it in retrospect. It merges into a picture of a number of areas that need more writing. So there's another question: what's the point? Personality is often linked to respect. The Committee points out that the study has found examples that the mention of the source of PST documents does not reflect the required substance. That's very regrettable. The sample has asked PST to assess whether the findings of the sample in this survey are such as to require a review of the entire source portfolio for the same purpose. That assessment shall meet the Committee. If you're going to stick to sources, you're going to treat them and talk about them with respect. Another question that comes to the cold water of this matter is: What does a good information about the day cost? How much do you have to say to get paid well enough? The remuneration for sources is dealt with in circulars from the Riksadvokaten. It points out that the desire of a source to obtain remuneration can affect not only the willingness to provide information to the police but also the level of truth. It is only in exceptional cases that it can be paid for information. There is a relationship with this case that shows that it has not always been like this. A report after a source meeting in mid-2006 shows that the source was informed that there would be a link between the information he provided and the costs he would be covered. It is also expressed that the source ‘must prove that he is worth future payments’. In 2009, the PST provided a financial contribution in connection with driving training paid on arrears. The Committee considers that the PST should review the procedures for the recovery of expenditure. Another price that can be associated with such work is the personal cost of being and acting as a source of PST. There is a need to include further guidelines in the internal legislation of the service, indicating the possible personal consequences it may have as a source of PST, including the consequences of establishing contact with new environments and persons. The length of the source relationship, the life situation of the source, the degree of connection to the environment and the motivation of the source for continued access are factors that should be included in that assessment. The Committee shall meet with a briefing on the source work of the service, with particular reference to the themes included in the notification. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e754	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The size of the case is now in the situation that the rapporteur for the case No. 6 is not in the hall. We will then proceed to case No. 7th@item: inlistbox There will be the rapporteur, so we can start with case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President will draw attention to the fact that it may be good to be in the Chamber when you are going to the Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e774	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 20 minutes to the President of the case and 10 minutes to the main speakers from each group and 10 minutes to the Council of State. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e781	I deeply regret that I underestimated the lightning efficiency of the Storting and presidency in this matter. In this study at Innst. 220 S for 2013–2014 is about, the Riksrevision has assessed the extent to which the Ministry of Oil and Energy facilitates effective concession and complaint proceedings in wind and hydroelectric power cases and how the proceedings address the objective of increasing renewable energy production. The Riksrevision study covers the period 2009 to October 2013 and therefore does not apply only to the electricity certification scheme. But most of the debate and most of the comments are going to be related to the electrical certification system and today's concession system. We first have to put the Riksrevision review a little bit in perspective. This matter is particularly important, not only because it is always important how governments and ministries follow up the requirements of the Storting, but because it is an assessment of the follow-up by the administration to the Stortinge intention of a more efficient concession scheme, and because the electricity certificates are in many ways the main instrument of Norwegian climate policy. Through the EU renewable directive, Norway has committed itself to increasing the share of renewable energy to 67.5 pst. by 2020. The introduction of a single electricity certificate market with Sweden has just been made to achieve this objective. Sweden and Norway shall deploy 26,4 TWh of new renewable energy by 2020 and finance half of each, irrespective of the country in which production takes place. At the time of the adoption of the Electricity Certificates Act in 2011, the Energy and Environment Committee stressed that the government had to facilitate the implementation of half of the production target of 26,4 TWh in Norway. The National Audit Office’s study shows that concession treatment in Norway is time consuming. They point out that the policy guidance signals for the treatment are not sufficiently clear, that there is a lack of appropriate clarification for the management, that the lack of network capacity leads to delays, and that conflict mitigation measures are too poorly exploited. The national audit shows that the number of applications in queue has increased over the period, although the queue has recently been slightly reduced by increased procedural capacity. This has a lot to do with the fact that the number of applications and complaints has also increased, and that the energy authorities, at the NVE, have not, according to the National Audit Office, had the legal basis they need for, for example. the early rejection of unrealistic applications. Norway is quite far behind Sweden in the development of new renewable energy measured in TWh under this scheme. Sweden started the electrical certification system earlier than Norway. However, Sweden has a different and apparently more effective concession treatment system, and they have different depreciation rules than Norway. This means, among other things: that they have given far more wind power concessions than we have — we in Norway have a large pile of wind power concessions that are unlikely to be realised. The first main finding of the Riksrevision is that overall objectives of how much is to be built out of different types of force are unclear and there are unclear indications of the criteria on which the procedure should be based. According to the Riksrevision, it makes concession treatment less effective and gives more room for conflict in individual cases. The Court of Auditors says: ‘The action plans or other governance documents have clarified how the production of new renewable energy will contribute to ensuring the achievement of the 67.5 % renewable target by 2020. Unlike the energy authorities in Sweden, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has not stated the share of electricity certificates to be provided by the authorities’ to be realised ‘through new concessions in Norway. [[...]] Nor has it been clarified which type of extension to encourage concession authorities in Norway.’ While the NVE has received a large number of applications since the entry into force of the Electricity Certificate Scheme in 2012, it is unclear to the administration how many concessions it will deliver, according to the National Audit Office. The lack of clarification of the level of ambition for renewable energy production and the way governments are to facilitate its realisation create room for substantive discussions in each case. The National Audit Board points out that this makes it unclear, both for action holders, for stakeholders and for other authorities, ‘how to balance renewable objectives against other societal and environmental interests in concession treatment’. This is also about how consultations and objections should be practised in order to balance different considerations, according to the Riksrevision. These uncertainties relate in particular to small power and wind power deployment, since the protection plans and the overall watercourse plan provide a framework for the development of high hydropower. Clear guidance signals have therefore been requested both by the administration and by the industry, as both the respondent and the case handler want to concentrate on the good projects, according to the Riksrevision report. The development of both wind power and hydropower is likely to come into conflict with other considerations, such as natural resources, natural diversity conservation, etc. It is therefore appropriate that a Joint Committee emphasises that the deployment of renewable energy should be ‘in a way that takes account of natural diversity, outdoors and landscapes’. However, a majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre – emphasises that the electricity certificates are a technology neutral, ‘market-based scheme and that it is up to the private actors to apply, while the role of the authorities is to deal with the applications’. The National Audit Board’s recommendations on clear control signals are therefore rejected by this reference. This is also done by the Council of State in its reply letter concerning the Riksrevision report. However, the Riksrevision points out – if not directly, at least indirectly – that precisely because the scheme is technology neutral and market-based, the consequence is that the existing management tools do not function as expected. In addition to the effectiveness and legitimacy of the scheme, this may have unfortunate and perhaps unknown consequences for other national objectives – such as natural diversity, cultural memory protection and comprehensive spatial planning – and, not least, for the overall objective of the certificate market, namely more renewable energy production and lower greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. So this is a crazy policy, because one does not want to set specific production targets for different types of power generation. This is what they do to a certain extent in Sweden, apparently with more effective results than what we have. We take note of this policy framework in this round – this can be discussed in other points here in the Stortinget. When we now discuss the Riksrevision findings and the Council of State sits in the Chamber, it is important to point out that the Riksrevision study suggests that the market-driven development – without political leadership and priorities – not only gives priority to the cheapest small-scale projects, regardless of other societal objectives, it also implies a lack of overall governance signals, which, according to the Riksrevision, leads to more uncertainty, conflict, postponement and complaints. Another main finding of the Riksrevision is the lack of clarification in terms of energy objectives and how to balance them against other sectoral objectives. It is unclear how to investigate key areas under the Cultural Memory Act, the New Law on Planning and Building and the Nature Diversity Act 2009. The National Audit Office points out that the national guidelines for small and medium-sized enterprises and wind power are not up-to-date with the new legislation. It is absolutely central that national guidelines are drafted in such a way as to clarify the investigation requirements and comply with the existing legislation, without, of course, excessive detailing the requirements. An excessive margin of discretion and discussion in individual cases has, according to the National Audit Office, reduced predictability and transparency, increased the level of conflict and made quality assurance difficult. The National Audit Office points out that several concession decisions are not in line with regional plans and that there may be a reason why concessions are increasingly being charged to the Ministry. In June 2013, there were a total of five regional plans which were either completed or under preparation. Six counties have adopted wind power plans. However, it is unclear how these regional plans should be emphasised, since the quality is varying, and since the NVE is not bound by these plans. The National Audit Office also points out that conflict assessments for wind power, prepared by the Directorate for Nature Management, the Riksantikvaren, the Rein driftsvervalten and the Defence, are used to a limited extent and contribute to clarifying those interests in respect of development applications. Such fundamental clarifications are therefore also important in order to avoid the mutual contribution of consideration of both renewable energy production and other considerations through the conflict that arises to weaken the legitimacy of renewable development in Norway. Finally, I would like to comment on the National Audit Office’s reference to the lack of early rejection procedures and the possibility of using that instrument more effectively in order to improve the effectiveness of the procedure. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry set out overall criteria for early rejection, e.g.: by the fact that applications located in areas where there is insufficient network capacity, areas of protection and protected watercourses, areas of red-listed bodies and Sami reindeer management may be more readily removed from the pile. At this point, too, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right and the Progress Party, put their feet down, and believes that amendments to concession law at this point are something that needs to be considered in the longer term, because they fear that starting such work will now further delay proceedings. Of course, we all agree that it is important that the NVE prioritise investigations where there is free network capacity, etc. , but I hope that we will receive a constructive response from the Council of State in this matter, where we will have a closer look at what measures can actually be taken to ensure both the effectiveness of the electricity certification system and other statutory considerations in Norway, such as nature, culture, reindeer management, etc. This is not just a matter of single-mindedness; it is a matter of getting an important mechanism to work effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e824	Norway is one of the world’s largest hydropower producers and has Europe’s largest production of hydropower. Electricity production in Norway was 128 TWh in 2011 and 122 of them were produced in water power plants, 1.3 in wind power plants and 4.8 in gas power plants and other heat plants. Over time, a comprehensive set of rules and laws has been developed, such as the requirement for consistency and concession obligations when a concession application is to be dealt with by the authorities. I think it's important that different concerns and interests are taken care of through the concession system. The number of energy concessions treated has increased from 1,300 in 2010 to 4,818 in 2013. It appears that one is on the right track and that the measures taken to streamline concessional treatment have been effective. As the number of cases increased, the NVE has more than doubled the number of case handlers for such cases in the period 2005 to 2012. It is only in 2012 that the increase in NVE’s procedural capacity has led to several handling cases, but while NVE has dealt with several cases, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has received several complaints and major water issues for treatment. According to the Riksrevision report, it takes 3.5 years to deal with small power applications and 5.5 years for major wind power applications. It's a long time, and one needs to get more efficiency. At the same time, we need to be aware that much of the time spent is due to a number of statutory, mandatory requirements for distribution, hearing and processing. Many of the time spent in concession treatment can also be explained by the fact that the construction of energy installations gives rise to considerable conflicts of interest. There are many concerns that need to be addressed and that need to be addressed before a power build-up can be granted a concession, for example: cultural memory or nature and environment. In addition, it has also increased the number of applications for new energy measures. It is positive, it seems to me, that the NVE coordinates the concessional treatment of networks and power generation and that it is designed to facilitate increased deployment of network capacity. A large-scale deployment of the network has been launched in Norway, which also contributes to more renewable energy deployment. Simplification of the treatment for small and wind power has been carried out, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy transferred the decision-making authority in December 2009 in a number of cases under 1 MW to the county. I Prop. 1 S for 2013–2014 the Government of Stoltenberg II proposed to strengthen its procedural capacity in NVE further. There is a large part of the matter that is being complained about – 84 pst. of the wind power cases and one third of the small-scale power cases — which also extend the average process time. Yesterday I saw that Fennefoss received a concession after seven years. It's a long time. Here they also saw that there was not a big problem, but it was such a big facility that it required consistency, NVE replied: I agree with those who thought that seven years is a long time. I would like to comment on some of the findings of the Riksrevision, first on the control signal and improved control tools. Norway has committed itself, through the EU renewable directive, to increasing the renewable component to 67.5 pst. in 2020. From 2012, we have had a common electricity certificate market with Sweden, where new electricity production based on renewable sources will be built corresponding to 26.4 TWh by 2020. Norway and Sweden will continue to finance half of this, regardless of the country in which it is taking place. This also means that Norway can realise its obligations independently of whether the expansion takes place in Norway or Sweden. I just want to comment, as the case spokesman was also concerned, that the Swedish certification market has existed longer than the Norwegian-Swedish. The aim of the scheme is to provide for a total TWh between Norway and Sweden, and it is also a goal that half of these should be in Norway. But the electrical certificate market is designed to be technology neutral so that one can trigger the best projects, regardless of technology. Therefore, it is important that a not so detailed a measure of what is to be subject to concession treatment by wind and water projects is not so detailed that the authorities are then bound up in advance. Now, it is important for us that sufficient capacity is maintained so that we can finalise concession cases that may be covered by the electricity certification scheme within the 2017 deadline. We are very familiar with the fact that smaller measures that make clear simplifications should now be given priority, but that greater work that can remove the capacity from concessional treatment must be postponed. Therefore, we believe that additional detailed control signal not right now is the most necessary until 2020. NVE has developed procedures for internal priority in concession treatment and early rejection in small-scale power plants. When it comes to early rejection without treatment of reality, it is actually limited what you can do, according to today's laws. I agree that, in the long term, it might be worth reviewing the promise that we can streamline today's system, but – once again – we are concerned not to reduce the capacity of individual cases until 2016-2017, so that we reduce the potential of Norwegian companies within the certificate market. There is an increase in the number of treatment cases. And again – it is important that we maintain sufficient procedural capacity. It's known that the Department is simplifying the processes of the smallest hydropower issues, and I'm looking to the Stortinge for treatment. When there is a lack of clarification of disclosure requirements, we would like to comment on the setting, asking the Ministry to consider whether or not standardised distribution requirements could be a tool to ensure more effective and equal treatment of the various projects. Conflicts are, of course, unfortunate for efficiency, for the local environment and for it overseeing the desire for climate benefit. Dialogue is positive, but it is not always possible for the dialogue to prevent real conflicts of interest. It is important that the actors involved use existing mechanisms for participation: hearing, meetings, objections and consultations in the best possible way to mitigate the conflict in individual projects. When one goes into the NVE website, one sees that there is a lot of activity – among other things. The population meeting of ten small power plants in Kvinesdal, and in Nore and Uvdal, there were actually two power plants that were now denied due to red-listing plots for which Norway had a special responsibility. I thought it might be important to say that in this case. It is also important that authorities strengthen the coordination of network and power deployment. Regional power system deployments provide a good basis for the network operators’ network development plans. We expect them to be followed up to ensure increased deployment of network capacity. The Committee is some about very much in this matter. Everyone has a desire for better efficiency. It is good for the development of more renewable energy. We want more renewable projects here in Norway. Better network capacity and more knowledge both contribute to streamlining. But there must be a balance between efficiency and democracy. It is not possible to create criteria that will remove all resistance. The concession management system should find the best projects, and it is also very good that there are many to choose from.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e858	The study carried out by the National Audit Board on the effectiveness of the renewable energy concession treatment has shown us that both the concession and appeal proceedings themselves take a long time. On average, over a period of 3 1⁄2 years, the NVE takes to deal with small-scale applications and wind power applications take approx. Five and a half years. We've noticed the main findings of the National Audit Office. Among other things, it points to the need to make the overall control signals clearer and the need for improvement of the management tools. In addition, it is noted that the lack of clarification of investigation requirements is precisely contributing to the reduction of procedural efficiency and the lack of network capacity delays the process and the realisation of power concessions. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is responsible for facilitating predictable and efficient concession processes. The amount of new renewable energy production to be provided by the authorities today appears to be unclear. Nor has it been clarified what type of extension the concession authorities are going to stimulate in Norway – contrary to what we experience Sweden has done. Overall, there is little predictability for policyholders and stakeholders on how to balance renewable targets against other societal and environmental interests. This is particularly true in relation to small and wind power. It should also be noted that while the national guidelines on small and wind power describe how different conditions are to be explored in regional plans and concession applications, there is no clear indication of how they should be addressed in complaints. The regional plans developed for wind and small power seem to be of little use as a management tool in order to clarify both where the development is to take place and how this development is to be balanced in relation to other interests. In fact, regional plans seem to play little role, unfortunately. Just these lack of clarifications with regard to management tools provide this wide scope for the difficult judgements, making each concession case too much a discussion of principles. There is little doubt that this in itself contributes to a higher level of conflict, as the Riksrevision points out, and also a greater range of complaints. There is little doubt that concession treatment should be given a higher degree of predictability than is the case today. There is reason to worry about the lack of efficiency, knowledge and clear plans for the concession treatment of wind and small-scale power stations. The purpose of the Electricity Certificate Scheme requires an offensive policy for energy saving, good network structure and transmission cables to the rest of the world. However, it also requires electrification and an actual transition from fossil to renewable energy carriers in the transport sector and in industry. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have noticed that the Riksrevision demands much greater clarity in terms of the governance signals for the concessional treatment of renewable energy. This is also requested by both the administration and the industry. For many unrealistic projects today are launched and the basis for applications is due to these lack of governance signals. It will therefore be important in the future to define clear targets in the field of renewable energy, both in terms of the power generation to be set and in terms of the increase in production to be added to the electricity certificate market. The ETS currently contributes to a surplus of renewable energy in Norway and the Nordic region. For the legitimacy of this scheme, it is important to clarify how the new energy will in practice lead to a cut in greenhouse gas emissions in Norway or abroad. In order to avoid unclear expectations and also to contribute to improving the effectiveness of concession treatment, it should be noted that the Riksrevision Recommendation to make greater use of the early rejection system in wind power cases. This applies, for example: in areas where network capacity is clearly lacking and where it is not planned to be repaired in the near future, but also in protected and protected watercourses. There is also reason to note that, while the NVE has developed procedures for internal priority in concession treatment, such procedures do not appear to be established in the Ministry of Oil and Energy for the handling of complaints, as pointed out by the National Audit Office. It is expected that this will be done and that overall early rejection criteria will be developed. There is no doubt that current practices are slow to process and uncertainty about the overall objectives involved. Clearer control signals will provide a greater degree of predictability for all parties, and from the Christian People's Party we expect the Ministry of Oil and Energy to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e881	The national audit has examined the effectiveness of the renewable energy concession treatment for the period 2009–2013. I would first like to stress that the situation improved significantly in 2012 through increased procedural capacity, and that much more cases have been dealt with, which is very positive. It is also very positive that the previous government made an offensive plan to increase the production of renewable energy through wind and water. We must not forget that it must have a great reputation. What is one of the main findings of the report we are discussing now is the need to make the overall management signals clearer and to improve the management tools. Because what we're facing is an extension. There is the use of land for something other than what they are used for today or have been used for the past. It thus implies potential conflicts. The conflicts need to be resolved, and one must balance the conflicts. It is quite obvious that it takes too long for the trial period to be three and a half years too small, and there are many complaints due to lack of knowledge. As I said, the use of nature is at the heart of the development we need to take into account in order to secure a green economy based on a prudent and long-term management of natural resources. To achieve this, one has to understand ecology, one has to understand as the interaction is in nature. One of the main challenges facing one in the development of hydropower or wind power is related to biodiversity. Biodiversity is enshrined in the Nature Diversity Act of 2009. There we have key concepts such as ‘priority species’ and ‘selected natural areas’. If one finds that the priority species and selected natural areas are of sufficient quality, the large community may make available limitations to each land owner. So one can limit the content of private ownership for social reasons. It's a necessary and correct principle that complements our private property tradition. In that case, the limitations of availability must be based on knowledge. We have also committed ourselves internationally, through the Convention on Biological Diversity, to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020 – yes, by 2020! If we are to stop the loss of biodiversity by 2020, we have a lot of urgency. It's very demanding, and it's very important. What I'm aiming for is exactly the basis of knowledge. Because we in the Center Party have noticed that the study shows that there is a lack of basic, systematically collected and value-neutral knowledge about, among other things. biodiversity, cultural memories and reindeer management. The Centre considers that lack of knowledge in the field of natural diversity constitutes a significant obstacle to effective action on a case-by-case basis. Although nature-type monitoring has been carried out in Norway since 1999, only 25 pst remains. of the sites for habitat types considered by the Environment Directorate to be potentially valuable. There is reason to believe that the mapping of natural habitats and species in and near water is more deficient than monitoring in dry land. Against this background, the Centre Party considers that the lack of a good, sector-independent and value-neutral knowledge base on natural diversity – probably also on cultural memories – is a significant cause of reduced efficiency and extended procedural time. This is supported by the study’s consideration of the need for better coordination of the investigative requirements of the different sectors and by the fact that disagreement on the basis of knowledge leads to complaints and objections in addition to an extension of the duration of proceedings. These knowledge base weaknesses are part of a general problem complex described in detail in the Int. 84 S for 2013-2014 Configuration by the Supervisory and Constituent Committee on the National Audit Board’s examination of grants for natural and outdoor diversity. What we are facing is that not least the Councils of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment should give priority to a more holistic national survey of natural resources, which will promote predictability and increased efficiency in the concession treatment. It could reduce the level of conflict in individual cases and improve the conservation of natural values. We are therefore facing a procedural complex where the government councils in both the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Knowledge must take this point seriously about the lack of knowledge. We have to ask the questions: why is it going so slowly? Why are there so many objections? How is it possible to have such different assessments of what should be a professional fact, as what we experience in a number of these cases, and which both create great frustration for those concerned, and great cost to the public, who are going to deal with it in such a, very burdensome, way? There are significant efficiencies that can be achieved by coordinating the investigative requirements of different sectors, and we need to ask the Councils to see this in conjunction with the need for a holistic and value-neutral knowledge base. I want to underline it: a holistic and value-neutral basis of knowledge. The species database, which is an independent knowledge provider located under the Ministry of Knowledge, should play a central role in building knowledge in the field of natural diversity, as a guarantor of the value neutrality of the knowledge base. One of the main reasons for the establishment of the Artsdatebank was that the production of knowledge and the making available of knowledge on natural diversity should be separated from the administration. A more objective knowledge base would provide for the clean-up of processes towards administrative decisions. The Red and Black Lists developed by the Art Database can serve as a clear example of the positive effects of drawing a fundamental distinction between the knowledge base, which should be as value-neutral as possible, and the analyses of the various interests based on this knowledge. That is why my conclusion is that the main finding is that the knowledge-based system needs to be improved. We need a knowledge-based management system in order to ensure that all parties know what they are dealing with, and that there is greater consensus about the administrative decisions being taken. It's a big job to do. Not least when we have great ambitions to stop biodiversity loss by 2020, we have a big job ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e902	I would first like to join the rapporteur's introduction. In particular, the SV, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens agree on many points in the matter. And it's also true, as the representative Lundtigen says, that we have a great job ahead of us, because this is about realising a great and necessary potential in renewable energy. It is extremely important that it happens, and extremely important that it happens in a way that is fast but that does not harm other important societal and environmental interests. It is also important that mechanisms are in place to ensure that non-renewable energy is replaced by renewable energy. National audit studies on the effectiveness of renewable energy concession treatment show that there is much left in all these areas. Firstly, the overall control signals and control tools must become clearer and clearer. I'm not in doubt about that. There are still many cross-roads dragonfights whether the climate challenges are real in fact – at least when choosing between instruments and governance signals, which means that we are actually reaching the major goals that we have set, which are necessary, and which, for Norway, include increasing the renewable share by 67.5 pst. by 2020. And it's not a trifle thing. This is where the Council of State has a huge task ahead of it. Then you have to be clear about the goals you set, and you have to have the means to achieve them. The National Audit Office's investigations show that the system is not in place in any way. Now, the objectives are more relevant to the political will to prioritise this in front of other things. It is still true that the majority are not quite there yet to put the necessary weight behind increasing renewable energy production and slowing down the non-renewable. When it comes to early rejection procedures, I'm not going to go into it so much – several people here have explained that you have to be able to have these procedures ready. But one of the things that has been missing here is a basic plan at regional level. I can say that SV has programmed that we must have it, and there are many conflicts locally. Many of them just occur because, among other things, Lundtigen said – there are natural resources that have not been identified here; they have not been found where this can be done without threatening other natural and outdoor interests, and – not least – where it is natural to expand, so that at the same time, very expensive infrastructure is not developed in order to bring power to a market. Those powerlines can also be major natural interventions, which in turn trigger new conflicts. There would have been a need for proper regional plans that led to the development of wind power and where wind power is not to be developed – which are the main areas of conflict. I know from my own country that there are a lot of people who have applied for concession. Few of them are likely to ever be realized, but there are major conflicts and difficult to deal with politically. With regard to the basis for making a reasonable decision as to where it is tolerable that such facilities are and where we must prevent such plants from coming, the plans are not there. Getting these plans in place is something SV wants to make a strong case for and propose. Now, as this is all about, the certification system can be a time-limited system, and we have to look at how it might be continued. The mechanisms to be used to generate the necessary renewable energy in the future need to be widely discussed. In any case, such screening processes and criteria for where such interventions can be carried out and where they cannot be carried out will be necessary in the future. For the marine sector, if fossil fuels are to be replaced by renewable energy, there is little evidence that energy needs will fall sharply. We're still finding new things that we're using the energy we're saving on. You can have big goals, and SV is involved, but so far it's been like this. This means that part of this potential should absolutely be realised, because it is one of the few ways we have to realise more renewable energy in Norway. I could give a long talk about the green energy that lies in the carbon and in the forest. There is a lack of systems, but it should definitely also be used, because it can provide a lot of renewable energy and a lot of jobs in areas of the country that are currently not involved in other energy production and its effects. In the case of better exploitable conflict-reduction measures, I believe that this is mainly linked to the lack of a planning basis. And the conflicts are coming. In my county there have been great popular actions around planned wind power expansions that I almost haven't seen my husband. It means that these are natural values that people really appreciate. When there is no plan-based basis where the facts are revealed and one can weigh on that basis, it is clear that there is the possibility of very escalating these conflicts, without necessarily talking about the same facts. It is absolutely a major problem that we must be able to deal with in a better way. With regard to the last point that the Riksrevision points to, the lack of network capacity, SV has been somewhat reluctant to enter that theme in this setting. It's not because we don't see the need for some places, but if part of this effort is to be based on producing more of this energy in Norway for increased exports, without ensuring that you reduce fossil and non-renewable energy elsewhere, we're anticipating it. We want to look at what you can do to prevent it. We want you to go through where it is least harmful to establish, for example. wind power plants or other types of renewable energy without having to spend a lot of money building up a network capacity. We want to look at where you can have this bet without major interference in nature and get the force out in a more reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e921	Let me take this opportunity to thank both the rapporteur and the committee for their good work. I also think we should recognise that there have been many good speeches so far in today's debate. I note what I experience is a unanimous commitment to the government's ambition to produce more renewable energy in Norway. Of course, I'm happy about that. Then I also believe that there is reason to recognise the Riksrevision's investigation and the job done there. I am pleased that the model we have for concession treatment is recognised, and – not least – that the efficiency measures that have already been implemented are being agreed upon. Then there are also comments and suggestions for adjustments, which should of course be lacking. I am pleased that the majority of the committee sees thorough and effective concession treatment as a good instrument in energy. Many have also been involved in climate policy. In general, I find the National Audit Office's investigation useful, and it will be useful in the future. The national audit shows a good understanding of the complexity of the concession system in the energy and watercourse sector. I believe that many of the issues that the audit raises and points to are relevant issues related to current concession law and concession practices. Over many decades – in fact over 100 years – we have built up a complex legal framework for watercourse and energy action. This has helped to make concessional treatment time consuming. Much of the time spent is due to legal and mandatory requirements for investigation, consultation, opinions, meetings, consultations and other types of proceedings. Nor is it possible to get away from the fact that the construction of energy plants, which many of the representatives have also been involved in, leads to major conflicts of interest and also makes it necessary what I would call political assessments. That is why you have a government council in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and that is why you have a big deal. I think there must be room for that in the future too – the political judgement sometimes needs to be used to make these important considerations. In addition, the objective of increasing renewable energy production and the creation of a single certificate market with Sweden has led to a sharp increase in the number of applications for new energy measures. As others have also noted, despite a significant increase in the capacity of concessional treatment, it is still not possible – and it may not be the right resource use – to keep up with the large amount of emerging issues in the last few years. The government wants to increase renewable power generation in Norway. We want to reduce overall concessional treatment time, and we need to make the concessional treatment even more effective. At the same time, we shall ensure that other societal concerns are properly addressed through the concessional processes. The administrative audit carried out by the Riksrevision involves a broad review of the work of the authorities and points to potential potential for improvement. At the same time, I do not want to mention that the measures we have already taken to streamline concession treatment have produced results in the form of several concessions. So I'd like to say a little bit about some of the different topics that have been addressed in the study. Steering signals are referred to by the Riksrevisionen and by several members of the Committee. The National Audit Office points out that the amount of new renewable energy production to be facilitated through new concessions has not been clarified. The National Audit Office also lacks a concrete definition of the type of development to be stimulated by concession authorities in Norway, and recommends defining the amount of renewable energy production to be facilitated — as has been done in Sweden. The National Audit Office also sees the need to develop management tools to achieve these objectives. Norway and Sweden have concluded, through the certification scheme, a joint commitment to renewable power generation by 2020, with a common production target of 26,4 TWh of normal year-on-year production by 2020, but irrespective of the country in which production is built. Norway and Sweden are each responsible for financing half of the production. Many people have been involved, but I still find reason to say this: The certification system is both technology-neutral and market-based. It is designed to stimulate the development of the most profitable — concessional, well-marked — projects. Energy authorities grant concessions and set the framework for their activities, but investors are the ones who make the decision on what to build. I would like to quote from Stortinget's negotiations on the certificate market, Innst. 379 L for 2010-2011, Chapter Premises for a single market: ‘The financial obligation imposed on Norway does not affect the distribution of production growth between Sweden and Norway. The actual increase in renewable production in each country depends on factors such as concession policy, transmission system access, deployment costs, network connection costs and price expectations. However, the Ministry points out that the design of the general energy policy that affects the rate of expansion will be up to the individual countries. It has been suggested that countries should inform each other in the event of changes to the general framework conditions which may significantly affect competition.» This had the upsurge of a unanimous staggering at the time. From this point of view, it has not been relevant for the Ministry to define more precisely how much renewable energy production it will facilitate in Norway, but, of course, the development of concession treatment is continuously monitored. By the end of 2015, a certification system control post shall be carried out. The NVE has prepared a baseline report for the control station, including: the availability of viable projects has been assessed in Norway and Sweden to achieve the production target of 26,4 TWh. The NVE concludes that there is good access to projects in both Norway and Sweden and that this is therefore a good opportunity for achieving the 2020 target. Nevertheless, it is still up to investors to realize the projects. The National Audit Board also points out that it is necessary to maintain sufficient procedural capacity in order to finalise concession cases eligible for the certification scheme within the time limit of the concession authorities in 2017. I agree with the Riksrevision's assessment and will ensure that the rate of concessional treatment is maintained during this period. We're already looking at the consequences of delegating power to the NVE for hydropower plants with less regulation. However, the measure requires amendment of the Watercourse Regulatory Act. The Ministry will see such a legislative change in the context of a number of other measures that may be relevant, in the light of the follow-up to the Government Platform. The government has already submitted legislative proposals to the Stortinget on simplifications in the rules on the distribution of the concession fee, which, if adopted by the Stortinget, will release the procedural capacity of the NVE. With regard to objections, we have procedures for how this is to be practised in energy matters. The Ministry shall ensure that the procedures are better known and followed up. I see that there are some things I can't get through. But I want to say that I really think today's debate has been good. I intend to address many of the issues raised by the Committee, and give the Storting the opportunity to discuss these matters further in connection with the presentation of the Energy Communication that we will bring to next year. Then I would say that I fully agree with the many who have said that there are also some issues of conflict. But I want to remember that wind concessions do not produce wind power. It's windmills that do. There are many concessions already given, but there aren't exactly as many windmills built.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e964	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e967	In our view, the key aspect of the review by the National Audit Office is its identification of a lack of clear and predictable targets and plans for renewable development. Now it is in practice that, depending on what the case is, the case handler, the action holder, the local environment and others are involved in the Planning and Building Act, the Natural Diversity Act, the Cultural Memory Act, the Energy Act, in terms of hydropower – the Water Resource Act, etc. In addition to this, local plans, which nobody knows exactly what to do with. However, they tend to reflect local values, which are of great importance, in addition to national ones, so it is easy to understand that local environments react when these plans are not respected. In this context, it is also important to note that with regard to the number of complaints, the vast majority come from the respondent and not from inexhaustible environmental organisations and other such interests. In addition, Norway has committed itself to halt biodiversity loss. In this context, it is a major problem, as the representatives Lundtägen, Andersen and Grövan have pointed out, that this is determined by case-by-case judgements, regardless of an overall look at Norway’s overall commitments, both in terms of natural diversity, and in other matters. The National Audit Office points out, as several have mentioned, a lack of comprehensive knowledge of biodiversity. An environmental study from October 2013 estimates that as little as 25 pst. the natural diversity in Norway has been identified. Sweden and Denmark have made comprehensive assessments which at least bring them closer to their overall picture. It's worth noting. The Energy and Environment Committee, which has been involved in the introduction of the Electricity Certificate Scheme, has pointed out the importance of the regular evaluation of the electricity certification market and that it has been set up for the first time in 2015. This has already been the subject of the Council of State. He announces that this will be done by 2015, both here in the Chamber and in his reply to the National Audit Office. That's very positive. What I will end with is to stress the importance of the fact that the Council of State in this control station addresses the issue of clearer and more predictable overall objectives, and that he addresses the impact of this electricity certification scheme on other key societal interests, cultural memory protection, local democracy, etc., and not least the major objective: the link between this production and the cut in greenhouse gas emissions. I just want to finally also encourage the Council of State to address the issue of whether the electrical certification system actually affects the proper development of the kind of technology we need in the future. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e980	If so, the representative may have to close the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e984	Two points – point 1: The Council of State said in its speech that he would address the debate further in his system – that is probably a way to say it – without going into the issues we discussed. On the part of the Centre Party, we stressed that some of the main problem here is the knowledge-based basis for biodiversity – to ensure that we have a knowledge-based management system that needs to be strengthened by providing a value-neutral basis and that analyses of the different interests should be based on this knowledge. I would like to ask whether the Council of State agrees with that point, and whether he will take it to his government and go into this topic, because it is in our opinion some of the main problem we are facing here. Paragraph 2: It is a fact that proceedings take a long time and that there is a long queue. It was said by the Council of State that it is not easy to keep track of the large number of cases – implicitly: it was not easy to keep track of the proceedings in relation to the large number of cases that came. I don't know if it was a delay. I was in doubt about this when the Council of State said that the pace should be maintained in the proceedings. For the previous government, it was important to increase the pace to bring down the queues, in order to reduce the processing time. I want the Council of State to assess whether it is not still an ambition to bring down the queues, to bring down the processing period. Norway needs to implement it here, in order to get its share of these renewable energy development projects, when we have joint cooperation through the electricity certification scheme with Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e996	The quote I was given, I didn't quite recognize myself in – but it necessarily means that it didn't fall from the pulpit before. I want to be very clear that it's a goal to get more concessions. It's also a goal that the concessions given are actually built. I think the representative, Andersen, was interested in something important when she brought this up online. There is no doubt that the likelihood of the concessions being granted, which actually lead to energy production, being more likely if there is a close network. It is not obvious that today, for example: is mentioned in detail in the submission, which may lead to a refusal to deal with an application, which some may request. I think the representative Lundtägen has something to say when he talks about a good and unified knowledge base that can contribute both to less conflict and to more efficient processing in the future. Then the representative Lundteg brings out very clearly, very strongly, the Art Database. The Art Database is a professional environment I know well from my earlier work here in Stortinget. It's a professional environment I have great confidence in. How that professional environment can be used in our work, I have to get back to. Such an occasion may be in the energy message. What I said – at least what I meant to say – and what I am completely in favour of, is that there is no indication that there is the right use of resources at all times to have the capacity to deal with absolutely all the concession requests, especially in a situation where the acquisition of concessions increased rapidly and strongly. That's what I meant to say, and that's what I'm in favour of. I hope the Storting agrees with me. Of course, it is a point to release more capacity in the NVE — when the situation is as it is — for concessional treatment. That is why we have sent to the Stortinget this month a proposal that will help to free up processing capacity in the NVE, a proposal that I hope both the Central Party and the other parties in the Stortinget will agree to. So it's like the already given hydropower concessions, especially, that have been produced for some years and some decades, also have to be revised. We also have to have resources to do that. Both nature, power generation and thus renewable society have served.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1013	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1027	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1034	Once again, we received a full report on the activities of the Riksrevision, in 2013. The important thing is that the Committee adheres mainly to the assessments and considerations of the Storting Message. It is the opinion of the Control and Constitutional Committee that the message is adequate for the work and activities of the National Audit Office in 2013. We also want to express our satisfaction with the work of the National Audit Office in general, and I want to say so that both this message and previous messages show the Stortinget very clearly that the work of the National Audit Office forms the basis for the Stortinge to do the task of controlling government and administration in a good way – and in the way that both the Constitution and other legislation actually provide the basis for. It is also necessary when dealing with this annual report, to say that it documents that we have good governance in Norway. It's a pleasure to read how much is really good. In addition, there are no indications that Storting’s decision was not followed by government and administration. There are some exceptions, some discussion points, but this is the big picture. What is particularly noteworthy for 2013 is that it is the last year of what was called the 2010–2014 strategy period, where the vision was to ‘contribute effectively to the control of the Storting and promote good governance’. That was the goal. What the message shows, and to which the Committee agrees, is that the evolution of the period has gone in the direction that the intention of this strategy period has taken. There has also been another change in the period, which this message deals with. This relates to the format of the messages received by the Storting. It was discussed with the Committee during the previous period how this was to be done, and the Committee welcomed the way in which the reports to the European Parliament have now been drawn up. They give us a good overview and give us the opportunity to find out more about the points that it is necessary for the Storting to discuss and possibly criticise. That is another point – which is at least a national feature, but which I would like to emphasise from my point of view – and that is that there is a good interaction between the National Audit Office and the administration. So it's going to be 86 pst. which, in a larger survey, says that the National Audit Office has the competence it needs to make a good assessment of what is going on in the administration. So there's no conflict between government and the National Audit Office, which we can actually see examples of in other countries, after what I understand. It's a good cooperation, and it's also very good for the future. However, of course, this message points to what is also our weaknesses. I have from this pulpit in a different context pointed to something that this message also mentions, and that I want to pay attention to. There are some parts of the administration that have problems following up what is being pointed out. It is repeated and repeated and the target achievement is not satisfactory. I shall not now identify it here on this occasion, because I do not think that is necessary, but I would say that it is a problem. It is a problem that parts of the administration have problems learning to take the advice and opinions that actually come from the Stortinget. It's a problem. There are repeaters here. What is called goal achievement in that language is part of the administration difficult to deal with, and it is a challenge we need to work on further. The Committee therefore agrees, as I have already said, with the opinions and views expressed in the communication, and there is no major disagreement in the Committee on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1055	One moment I allow myself to see the relationship between this case, which concerns the Riksrevision, and the next, which concerns the Civil Ombudsman, for both are basically state reports on how our administration works. The National Audit Service helps through the administrative audit to keep the administration properly informed, respecting the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. So that's the administration from the top. At the same time, you can say that the next case, which concerns the Civil Ombudsman, is about how the administration is based on the level of citizens, individuals and users. It is therefore possible to complete the state report on the Norwegian administration in both perspectives. I think that's quite interesting. In the anniversary year of the Eidsvoll Foundation Act, we can also remind ourselves that the Riks revision is one of the state institutions that have the deepest historical roots, so it's a well-informed and well-trained organization. Nevertheless, lay the strategic plans for the future, and that is good. Personally, I have noticed that it is to bet on specific sectors of society that involve large outflows to the public. It concerns health, well-being, work and retirement, social security and preparedness, transport, and it also concerns our globalised interests through assistance. Then they follow the good audit principle of pursuing what is essential and, in particular, identifying areas of high risk. It's not that much to point out, it's a result of good audit practice. Then, as always, we also have expectations of intensified company control, as developments are moving in the direction that the state organizes more and more of its activity in companies, and not least one page that can usually be a little undervalued in terms of control, that there should also be learning and guidance for governance in the future. In addition to referring to the comments we have had in the committee, I also thought that we should give some credit to the Workers' Party because they no longer agree with what was a majority comment in a previous case we had, where the Workers' Party opposed target management as a principle. It is excellent that it is now only the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party who is responsible for this, and that the Workers' Party no longer shares this view. That's what I think is excellent, because it also means that we can put greater and wider weight on the part of the committee in our view of how modern governance is going to be conducted. Now it is the case that the principles of governance should not be over-imposed in terms, but if target management principles are not applied, the option is detailed management and rigid organisational systems that belong to the past and that may result in an excessive concentration on doing what has been done in the past, quite correctly, rather than looking at what is appropriate use of instruments to achieve the objectives set by the Storting and that have been foreseen in the budget papers. So I end by giving the Workers' Party credit that they are no longer targets. They may still be opponents of New Public Management, but there's another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1066	The national audit is very important, so it is interesting to read both the annual report and the reports that come from there. It is absolutely useful, and it is absolutely necessary to have the necessary control of the adoption of the size decision, which is actually also implemented in practice. This is essentially happening, but the Riksrevision shows through all its reports that there are potential for improvement in many places, and one should, of course, continue to strive to ensure that all decisions taken are followed up properly. So to these guiding principles. The representative Tetzschner was up and praised the Workers' Party that they no longer agreed with the UK, the Centre Party and the Green Party that this business governance model, which has fed into the public sector over the past few years, may not necessarily be the best. On the SV side, we are absolutely sure that it is not. It has nothing to do with wanting something old-fashioned or something that is bureaucratic and heavy, but you want to cross-check control signals and steering handles where you can see that, among other things. well-being, care and schooling are other than business operations, and differ from that in their beings. In the government statement, the government says that it believes it does not, it believes that this can be managed in the same way. I almost expect the Labour Party to disagree with that. For what we're trying to address, that we want to discuss these governance principles, whether they actually give us and the agencies and the important businesses that we're going to run, the right ways to govern. When the Riksrevision feels that something might not be perfectly guided by these measures, we say, oh, here it was a mistake, then we just get to do even more of what might not be the right control parameter and the right thing to measure by. I'm not going to repeat posts I've kept here before, but there are some things that count, and there are some things that don't count. Much of what is not to be counted is important in welfare, care and school, and what the public sector is to do, and what the National Audit Office is to control. That is why, on the SV side, we are concerned about looking at some of these rigid target management systems and these business governance models that the Riksaudition must of course monitor, and that the administration should govern. It is in order to identify mechanisms that eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy and control, which remove the time thieves, and which provide more of the professionalism and those who are required, for example. a good school offer or a good offer from Nav, in the center. We're going to discuss the Civil Ombudsman's Annual Report in no time. There we meet the other side of any of these governance mechanisms and how they may not be as perfect as many think they are. From our side, we're going to work on this. We're going to work according to principles of developing trust reforms, where employees with their professionalism, also in cooperation with those who are going to use the service, have greater opportunities to do what is well-being, without necessarily always being able to control it through the National Audit Office or other control mechanisms according to business management models, which may be well-suited to produce goods, but not well-suited to produce well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1079	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1093	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1100	The Civil Ombudsman is also important, because it is an institution to ensure that the administration takes care of the interests of individuals in a very complex administration in a very complex society. The report from the Civil Ombudsman last year shows that the number of cases is large, and that some cases come to the Civil Ombudsman who might not really belong there. In an earlier case here today, with regard to the Ombudsman for Defence, there was a small discussion between the Workers' Party's Myrli and me about the Ombudsman's functions. SV is a strong supporter of it, but also believes that there is a need for some representatives who are not present today, for example. a Nav agent. We record that there is no majority to look at it in the position presented here, but if you go through the matters that the Civil Ombudsman points out to them on a large scale, Nav is very dominant. A great many of those matters are of such a nature that they should have been solved at a different level and with different mechanisms than they do today. Such mechanisms are needed because this is important. This is the meeting of individuals with the welfare state when they are in crisis. Then the systems have to work better than they do today. Such an agent, for example, could relieve the Civil Ombudsman — it would have been good and necessary — and could also contribute to the management, such as: with a similar urban representative in Kristiansand, had great opportunities to improve their own practices. For most cases, such a system has been resolved in amicably, for the benefit of both the user and the administration. So I believe that this is absolutely necessary to look at, and I believe that the Civil Ombudsman's annual report shows very clearly that there is a need to do something here. It is also important that the appeal procedure at the Civil Ombudsman should proceed as quickly as possible. It is now 189 days in cases which ended after being dealt with by the administration. Of course, we in Stortinget agree with the Civil Ombudsman that matters need to be dealt with with with with with sufficient thoroughness, and that it can take time, we also understand. But 189 days is a terriblely long time for people who have experienced a meeting with the public that is unjust. The vast majority of people who come to the Civil Ombudsman have also gone to the administration before they get there. So bringing down the trial period is necessary, and Stortinget says that ‘it must be a goal’. If it is then that the capacity of the Civil Ombudsman has to be assessed in order to get it done, we encourage you to come back to Stortinget with a possible overview showing how it can be done. Then the Civil Ombudsman also takes up this with warning protection. At least in the past, it was thought that the item on alarm protection should be evaluated, as it was adopted by the previous bigotry. That's what's needed. That shows the cases that come to the Civil Ombudsman. Finally, I would like to address the new task of the Civil Ombudsman in relation to the prevention mechanism for the ratification of the various international human rights conventions by Norway. Now it is the case that the presidency has dealt with a matter on this recently and will promote for the Stortinget proposal to have a system that is organisationally subject to the Stortinge but related to the Ombudsman of the Stortinge for the administration, the Civil Ombudsman. Then you get a new system -- it looks a little like what we have now -- a sort of side organ. We shall discuss it when that matter comes to Stortinget, but I think it will have unanimous support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1115	First, I just want to comment on the post of the case spokesperson. We're pretty much a few, the whole committee, in this case. It's just that remark about Nav's ombudsman we're disagreeing about. I also think it is important that it is said here in the Chamber that we are not initially to introduce a new order. The report also states that the number of complaints on Nav has been reduced, and the Civilombodsman says it is clear that Nav's own service body has begun to function better. Then I suggest that we take a closer look at whether we make Nav work on our own keel. But what I actually took the floor for was to emphasize what the committee has said over several years: the important function of the Civilo Ombudsman has for the general citizen through his role as a restraint maker and a practice to preserve legal certainty for all of us. In connection with that, people's knowledge and knowledge of the Civil Ombudsman is of great importance. Last year, the Committee invited the Ombudsman to take action to improve the awareness of the Ombudsman. As a result, the ombudsman has started working on a new communication strategy, which we believe is good, because it is central that the ombudsman's social mission is understood by those who can benefit from the scheme. A complaint to the Ombudsman shall be an easy and useful way of getting some administrative aspects of a case tried. It is important here that the individual can complain to the ombudsman on his own, but for example. using a lawyer or other help. The 2013 message states that the Ombudsman has prioritised being better informed on the website about the announcements, hearing statements, organisational changes and other news. It is also a step forward that the Ombudsman has taken on Twitter as a communication channel. I also see other communication actions as the Ombudsman’s priority is to clarify the presentation of trends and analyses in the annual report. Together with the website, the Annual Report is an important part of the Ombudsman's face later. The communication from the Ombodsmann to the audience – i.e. us – is moving forward, and I am looking forward to the new ombudsman continuing to work on developing his relationship with the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1128	Also in this annual report, there is very important information for Stortinget about what can well be described in some respects as systemic weaknesses in our administration. We've gathered in the committee about broad, aggregated comments, but I thought I could highlight a little bit of what's written in the summary on page 5 and beyond, which is a concentration of the findings that the Civil Ombudsman has done on how things stand in the municipalities. The theme there is that there may be some weak legal competence in our municipalities. There may be uncertainties as to whether one is aware of the adoption of individual decisions, that in some cases there is no proper record of the decision, it is not made in writing, and there is no adequate justification, which means that the recipient of the notification of an administrative decision does not become aware of the applicable appeal rules and may thus be subject to legal loss. At the same time, it has also been mentioned that the organisation of the review body in the municipality may be deficient. For my part, I would like to add that in the smaller municipalities there is also a staff problem in the sense that there is instability because people know each other so well or are involved in so many other relationships than the professional ones that you do not get the distance that unwarranted proceedings, appeals and complaint procedures require. So if you were to be looking for good arguments for larger municipalities, at least some of these are found in the Civil Ombudsman's Annual Report. I also think it is interesting when the Civil Ombudsman goes through the enforcement and follow-up of the administrative bodies that have been criticised, that it then seems to be a horizontal feature that it is the largest and most self-confident municipalities, and also departments, which are opposed, and which do not take note or learn from the statements made by the Civil Ombudsman. Now there are not very many examples of this, but it is nevertheless problematic that it is due to a kind of ‘gentlemen’s agreement’ in the administration whether one feels obliged to implement the references made by the Civil Ombudsman. There's something sympathetic about this too, because there's no force and legal force that makes the administration largely comply with the Civil Ombudsman's points, but that more can be said to be the professional input given. For my part, I want to reflect on whether time is short to discuss whether we need an administrative court whose decisions cannot be trained, cannot be placed in a desk drawer, which simply cannot be transferred, and that it has binding legal effects to get the decision of the Civil Ombudsman or of an administrative court against it. But we're going to get back to that in a different context. I also want, since this is the last annual report presented by the renegade civil ombudsman to the Stortinget, through the President, on behalf of the Stortinget, to extend a great deal of thanks to the person Arne Flivet for what he has put on the position he has had for so long, and all the good contributions he personally, and also through his leadership of the Civil Ombudsman, have given us in Norway one of the world's best administrations, and all the contributions that have been made for us to have a decent and fair administration for the pleasure of users and citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1141	The task of the Ombudsman is to contribute to ensuring that there is no injustice by the public administration against the individual citizen. The Ombudsman also has an important role in the form of a prevention function, because the Ombudsman’s role in dealing with individual cases is also of an awareness-raising and practical nature. The rapporteur has explained the Committee's position, so I'm not going to go into the details of it so much, I just want to deal with a couple of issues. On several occasions, the Stortinget has called for action to be taken to improve the awareness of the Ombudsman’s role. In this Annual Report, we note that this work is now under way. Among other things, social media has been used, together with a greater degree of visibility of the Ombudsman’s role and presence in the media. It must be central and important that the Ombudsman's societal task is understood by those who can benefit from this mechanism. That's why this becomes a balance between making the system known, and thus making it easier for the citizens to complain about it as a perceived injustice, and, on the other hand, to make people aware of when there is no basis for complaint. We note that the number of cases in recent years has remained stable at about 3000 per year. Most complaints, c. three quarters, appear to apply to governmental administrative bodies. The main issues were social security, planning and building matters. It is interesting to note that in 2013, the Ombudsman dealt with 277 complaints addressed to the Labour and Welfare Act and that 17 of them resulted in written criticism of the agency. This gives a critical proportion that is actually significantly below the average for all administrative bodies, and that is interesting. Nothing can be said with certainty as to the cause of the decrease in the number of complaints compared to Nav. Some of the actions undertaken by Nav itself through more targeted governance with a view to streamlining the process, shortening the procedure time and facilitating better practices have probably contributed positively. As it looks in 2013, Nav International in particular receives most complaints relatively. There is reason to ask whether this is due to a lack of resources in order to be able to carry out the many comprehensive and, in part, difficult tasks in this area, in a satisfactory way or due to internal priorities. Although experience with the Nav process shows that clear improvements have been made, there is still reason to fear, based on the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman, that there will still be many complaints over a long period of time. We therefore note that there is still a clear potential for improvement in the processing time of many Nav units. The Christian People's Party has therefore, together with several other parties, been called upon to strengthen the legal aid system in this area by establishing its own Nav ombudsman. We have also expressed that in our comments on this matter. We believe that such a system, in addition to being able to provide more people with help in dealing with complicated administration with many rules, will just relieve the Civil Ombudsman and in the long term also contribute to the necessary improvements in Nav. We think the Civil Ombudsman's announcement for 2013 just underlines the need for such a Nav ombudsman. Finally, it is also interesting to note that the main impression is that a critical statement by the Civil Ombudsman is essentially respected and loyally followed up by the administrative bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1164	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1167	I would like to say that I am well on my way, with some reservations about the request for a Constitutional Court, follow the comments made by the representative Tetzschner on the position and importance of the Civil Ombudsman. I think we all agree on that. I also agree with what was said by both the rapporteur and Mr Eldegard regarding the annual report and its contents. I have a comment on what the rapporteur was about, as I see it, and which I would like to stress. Of course, we have a problem with the treatment period. It is clear that when a person, a citizen, complains, until he gets a response to this, it is a problem and a challenge for the entire office. I think we're just going to say this so that this Biggest thing has to have a really heavy focus on for the future, because these are such issues that also partly relate to our responsibility, namely the issue of both organization, staffing and economics. When I also took the floor at the end of this debate, it was for, like the representative Tetzschner, to thank the civil ombudsman Arne Flivet for what he has done. He's sitting here, and he's done it faithfully as long as I've been with him – and certainly long before that. It shows respect for the Stortinget, but also for the debate. We really appreciate that. It was 19 February 1990 that the Stortinget unanimously agreed that Arne Flivet would be elected as a civil ombudsman. The fleece has made a very good effort in this office. He has lifted it, and he has contributed from his point of view as a civil ombudsman to the social debate in a very constructive and good way. Like the representative Tetzschner, through the President, I would like to express my thanks to Arne Flivet for the work he has done as a civil ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1178	The President may state that the Presidentship of the Storting has expressed due thanks to the Civil Ombudsman and other ombudsmen who resign.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1181	I, as the rapporteur-general for this matter, would also like to join that thank you. Arne Flivet has been a very striking civil ombudsman and has developed the office very positively. I would also like to say thank you from our big group for the job he has done. There were some points I just wanted to comment on what has come up. The first was this with a communication strategy. I think it's very important. There may be a problem that there are many things coming in that shouldn't be there, but it's worse if things don't come that should be there. That's why you have to put up with a lot of things, and then you have to have a communication strategy. I think very many people who could have used that scheme and needed it, don't know it. The second point is this with any representation in Nav. Reference is made to this scheme with service complaint. Yeah, it's probably there, but I'm absolutely convinced that this is where you need some kind of help. You have this on health; you have the patients' representatives. That's the exact same thing. Here, too, there are people who are in crisis and who are facing a very complicated apparatus. Trials have shown that it works well. So I'm a little surprised, and I've been for a long time, about the Labour Party's resistance to this. But I know that there are people in the Workers' Party who fully agree with us on this. Then I'd just like to say a little -- so I'm not saying anything wrong -- about what the presidency has treated in terms of the new national institution to monitor Norway's follow-up to human rights. It's incredibly important that it is done. Norway is not always as good at human rights as we like to believe that we are, so we need this. There, therefore, a national institution is proposed to be an independent entity without formal links with the Civil Ombudsman, but it should be in the same place – that it should be right, as I understand it – and that it should be assumed that the head of this national institution should be elected by the Stortinget, that is, as a separate choice. So then I hope this is referred correctly, so there are no misunderstandings about it. This is a matter that comes to Stortinget, and which we are going to deal with. As the rapporteur for the Civil Ombudsman, I would like to say that from our side we are going to join in this, and believe that this is important. It is also important that the Storing monitor, so that the resources for this new mechanism are sufficient, and – not least – that both the magnification, government and administration also follow up the demands of this new institution. It's very important that we do that, and that we actually go ahead and follow up our human rights obligations in a correct and correct way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1192	The President can confirm that it was very correctly referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1200	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-11.ana.ud33e1347	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
