ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e52	Honourable co-representatives! Former Central Party representative, Alf Ivar Samuelsen, died on 16 September this year. Samuelsen was 72 years old. Alf Ivar Samuelsen was born on 28 February 1942 at Fredvang in Flakstad municipality. He took education as a teacher and later became head of health and social work in the home municipality. He quickly became a known figure in Flakstad, entered municipal politics in 1975, and later became rapporteur. The rapporteur's chain was also put on in 1995, when he became the county rapporteur in Northern Ireland, and later the county council. At Stortinget Samuelsen entered in 2005. He was a member of the Labour and Social Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. Samuelsen was known as a barn in the community. He was deeply respected. When he went from local politics to national politics, he was not a man who forgot where he came from. He had been a leading figure in the work on continental connections in Lofoten, and he was very committed to Lofoten and Nordland – for business, for good transport solutions, for local government and for local welfare services. At the Storting stood his door always open, and he became known as a speaker for the Lofoten and a district man. This was the red thread of his 40-year political career. Samuelsen was concerned with history, and this came to light through his work in the local history team, a work he participated in right up to his death. This interest made him a steady politician. He was a man of great knowledge and was locally referred to as a historical lexicon. What remains as the strongest impression of Alf Ivar Samuelsen, however, is his warm personality and concern for others. He was out, open and made sure of them around him. A colleague at Stortinget said this: «Alf Ivar was very easy to get acquainted with. He was very inclusive and took good care of the new ones who came to Stortinget. He was always among the first to make contact, with moody comments and clapping on the shoulders of a proper work fist. That's how Alf Ivar encouraged those who were around him. The smile always sat loose, and he was easy to like." Alf Ivar Samuelsen was a home-loved family man, and after one period at Stortinget he moved home again. It did not stop the active and engaged Samuelsen, and he continued to exercise his commitment locally. In addition to his work in the history team, he was the head of the Center Party's local team and the Lions Club. Alf Ivar Samuelsen was “all by. ” He was a man who built, tied and executed. He was a family man – the family meant an infinite amount to him. The family is here today, and in heavy hours they will know that we have a lot to thank Alf Ivar Samuelsen for. We bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e85	Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on welfare leave of the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen on 4 and 5 December from the Working Party on Health leave of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen on 4 December and until further notice Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the South-Trøndelag County, Gunn Elin Flakne, apply for exemption from meeting in the Stortinge during Eva Kristin Hansen's leave, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. The Vara representatives of the Uppland County, Harald Eivind Bakke, and for the South-Trundellag County, Ferhat Güven, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e123	Harald Eivind Bakke and Ferhat Güven are present and will take the seat. The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e128	On behalf of Hans Fredrik Grovean, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir S. Tuskedal and signed I promote proposals for representatives on measures to move more freight from land to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e133	The representative, Mr Rommetveit, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e136	On behalf of the representatives of Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Else-May Botten, Terje Aasland and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative for more goods at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e141	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e145	On behalf of the undersigned, I would like to make a proposal to withdraw the State pension fund abroad, the oil fund, from coal companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e150	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e166	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, a member of the government gets 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each group of parties and six lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e177	I would like to start by thanking the members of the Committee for a thorough examination of this budget. There has been an important work that we are completing today, and I would like to thank everyone who has contributed. It is interesting to note that one year’s work in this committee shows how knowledge-rich and engaged transport politicians have the Stortinget. I would also like to extend special thanks to our good friends in the Christian People's Party and the Left. It has been a great pleasure to find budgetary solutions with them, and I really look forward to continuing the good cooperation with the representatives of Gruvan and Raja. When we're back from Christmas holidays in the New Year, it's right at the NHO's annual conference, where we're going to talk about the importance of efficient housing and labour market regions. We're going to feed into the glass sphere to see what the future brings. One thing we know for sure, it's that we're going to be many, many more, and most people will live in and around the big growing centers. This means that there must be good transport systems that make people safe and easy to get to and from work, that ensure that businesses get their goods efficiently transported, and that ensure road safety and environmental problems in the transport sector. In order for us to do that, there has to be a big change. It is typically Norwegian transport policy to be lagging behind. In recent years, it has not been taken into account that growing pain is developing too fully. Let me take a few examples, and since I'm from the district, for once I can talk about the bottlenecks here in the central East: one of them is the E18 – the West Corridor. It's been detonating for 20 years. It creates major environmental problems locally, increases global climate emissions and is a plug for business, which is going on with its products to Europe. Twelve years ago, we could have solved the problems of the West Corridor by 6 billion to 7 billion. kr. Now it's $40 billion. kr. Now it's considerably heavier to take the big promises around the big cities. These are expensive projects, and we have failed to prioritise the major projects around the big cities for too many years. Together with a maintenance seat on highways and county roads, 30 billion to 45 billion respectively. kr and 45 bn–75 bn We have major problems with the infrastructure. However, we cannot compare these with the problems we will have if we do not take the necessary steps and arm Norway for the future – before population growth takes a serious leap. In the Right, we promised before the elections to prioritize the road. That promise, together with the Advancement Party, has been upheld. That's why we're now using the road money more effectively. We set up our own road carrier, which needs predictable funding, and we want to use OPS, which has produced good results in the projects in which it is used, because it has, among other things, been used. guarantees good maintenance. We're on the road construction. The financial framework is overfulfilled when considering a smooth escalation of NTP. The means of planning are doubled in the budget we are to adopt today. In the previous period, more than 20 road projects were exposed. With next year's budget, all projects with planned start-up will actually be, except for the project on File Mountain. We also grab the plane side. We can't meet the NTP if it's still going to take ten years to plan a project. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Local Affairs are working specifically to reduce planning time. When building and financing the road and the way to link Norway’s infrastructure to the continent, the aim of road construction shall not be to maintain local bakeries. When a European road is built with 40 zones, roundabouts and speed dumps 40 years in overtime due to local rematches, it's time for us to figure out how to build our roads. Another example of a large transport gap that should have been addressed in order to ensure efficient housing and labour market regions is on the collective side. We've been talking about Fornebubanen since before the airport was shut down. Nevertheless, it has not been built because it is too great a promise for the local authorities, and the state has not committed itself to any particular contribution. Fornebubanen or the city track to Åsane and the Füllingsdalen or superbus solutions in Trondheim and Stavanger are never built unless the state commits. This government commits itself in the State budget to take 50 pst. of the bill. Let's do what we promised in opposition. Now we see that the Workers' Party promises a lot in opposition, but delivered little while they were in position. The collective commitments needed to make the growth centres meet population growth have not been prioritised in recent years. Although investments have been large on the railways in recent years, there are still many who connect the railway with words such as sundials, signal faults, low-powered overhead lines and buses for trains. If you look at the statistics, you see why. The decline in Norwegian railways has increased by 1 billion. kr per year since 2005 – 1 billion. kr in the year since 2005 the red-green decay on the railway has increased. Now we're there that the parts that are needed to maintain the railway are barely being produced anymore. With this budget, the government is 5 billion. kr in front of the railway investment form. But it is not only useful to build a new location if the signalling systems are not working and the overhead lines fall on the old one. That's why we've increased the funds for renewing the railway from the red-green 0.9 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 2,3 billion. kr in 2015. This is absolutely necessary, because we cannot continue to build a road for yesterday's needs and correct yesterday's mistakes on the Norwegian railway. We need to look at the needs of the future, and solve the challenges we have today, so that we can meet the needs that are coming. Fortunately, we seem to end this year in a better way than we did last year when accidents occur on Norwegian roads. Preliminary figures show that after 11 of 12 months, 146 people lost their lives on our roads, compared with 176 last year. There are still terrible many, and one life lost is one life too much. One of the things that has surprised me is that Stortinget did not want to commit to more road safety work. A brief reference is made to the national transport plan, but lack of attention is given to road safety in the Storting. That is why I am very pleased that an overall committee now ends up having a road safety plan in the Storting, where objectives and visions are anchored, and where the Storting must commit. It is historic, when it is the first time in 30 years that the Stortinget today says that it wants a road safety plan for treatment in Stortinget. I am pleased that we have received a government and a transport minister who is not only concerned with string clipping and horn music, but who is concerned that the infrastructure we have already built should be maintained and operated. This is a budget that in many ways is a turning point in Norwegian transport policy. For the first time as far back as we have reliable figures, the maturity on the road and the railway will be reduced. Yes, it's a turning point that the Storting today puts an end to the red-green decay. A budget alone does not produce what we want. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we want to change Society Norway. We show that the government's policy is working, and that we now have a large number of people who are able to give priority to the important tasks of arming Norway for the future. With that, I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e217	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e220	First, I would just like to point out that the escalation to which the committee leader refers is within the established NTP, so there is something that was planned to come. The chairperson of the Committee is quoted in VG on 4 September under the heading ‘Such will crush the right NSB’s train monopoly’: "We shall brush out of the tube so much toothpaste that the Ap does not get to put it back." Newspaper goes on to write: ‘She believes it is important that the NSB monopoly be crushed by the government’s blue barn as soon as possible.’ It also says: ‘I hope to see the first trains exposed to competition on rails in 2016,’ says Helleland.’ Is the chairman of the committee quoted correctly in this VG article? Then I wonder what the committee leader sees progress when she comes with the nominees ‘already in a decade, the large-scale liquidation of the NSB monopoly on the railway should be under way’. I can't find anything in the government's budget that points in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e244	I am very pleased that the representative Rommetveit addresses that very question, also because what VG writes in this case was well pointed out. What is now the situation is that there is full speed on railway investments and on maintenance. There I will also give tribute to the Workers' Party, who during his reign invested more on the railway. The Minister of Transport is now in the process of reforming the railways, and there is a clear need for this. We see that there are valuable recordings from the Directorate of Railways, from the NSB, from the Fly train – from many – which Red-Green Ministers of Transport also received, but which they just left in a drawer. It is quite clear that there is a need for reform, and there will be an opening up of competition in passenger traffic to our government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e251	Development projects organised as OPS, public-private cooperation, have been carried out in three major road projects up to now, and three additional projects have been facilitated by the government with the support of the Stortinget. How does the Right Future OPS projects feel should be organised in order to really be a forward-looking, efficient and correct way of building a road?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e258	I want to start by giving tribute to the Christian People's Party because they show such a strong willingness to take the necessary action in the field of social policy, not least in the field of reform. We see that new ways of building a road need to be used, more efficiently and more efficiently. We are now in the middle of a work on how to develop a strategy for road construction with OPS, and we want the Christian People's Party to be central to that work. What matters to us is that with OPS, the public guarantee is that the projects will be completed in time or in the past, and not least that we have a maintenance guarantee many, many years in advance. I come from a state where the first OPS project was started, and with which we who run there, have very good experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e263	Renewal appropriations were reduced by 245 million. kr following the budgetary agreement. I believe it is in quite a contrast to the use of words in Prop. 1 S, where it is said that with the proposed renewal appropriations, the maintenance run will be reduced in 2015 for the first time in several decades. Does this mean that the Right believes that the government has proposed excessive appropriations for maintenance in the State budget for 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e270	I would like to thank the representative for his question and would like to stress that there is considerable funding for renewal, among other things. to improve tunnel safety. And that's absolutely crucial. In the state budget, we propose over 1 billion. kr for renewal measures. Here, too, there are funds from the Infrastructure Fund. What we're doing on maintenance is stopping the big maintenance kit run, which we just see has increased and increased year by year. It is the first time in many decades that maintenance kits are being reduced. I think there's going to be major changes in the maintenance around our roads, making sure that the drivers can drive safer and we get our goods transported more efficiently on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e277	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e281	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, although it was somewhat hectic. I also want to thank the Committee Secretary and all the others in the Storing Secretariat who have been working on bombs to finish in record time. I also want to thank the Green Party and the SV for the cooperation outside the Committee. I think Norway should be a country with small differences and great opportunities. The transport sector plays an important role here. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing is to facilitate growth across the country, and we need to invest in climate, knowledge and health. We want to spend the big money for the good of the many in the whole country. The transport budget of the Workers' Party reflects this very clearly. We will further develop a modern and forward-looking transport system that will make traffic development both faster and safer. It creates good growth opportunities and is essential for business and housing. Climate change and population change with growth in metropolitan areas are the main challenges of our time. It's about for us living today, and not least for our children and grandchildren, opportunities in the future will be better. We have to take responsibility, and we have to do it now. We have to drive progress in the right direction. Therefore, the main priorities of the Transport Budget for the Workers Party are precisely measures that will reduce climate emissions, promote the environment and address the challenges of the metropolitan areas. We're going to spend 1 billion dollars. more on collective and climate action in major cities through urban environmental agreements. We're going to spend 130 million. We want to strengthen the four largest cities with money from the community, because they do not have the financial means to do so themselves. We also want to increase rail maintenance, and we need to give priority to measures to keep the railway network open. It creates predictability for both people and business. That is why we are also strengthening investments on the railways. These are areas in which the government cuts, and we think that's gross. We need to develop urban areas that are good to live in, where you can move from your home to work, to kindergarten and to school in an efficient and environmentally good way. That is why we are also proposing that we have an action plan for road-parking in the four largest cities, so that we can better switch between cars and public transport. We also want to strengthen and develop the provision of collective services in the districts through express bus services in Coastal Norway. We'll look at the possibility that buses on route can be transported free of charge on the ferries, which will lead to cheaper travel and increased public transport. That is why we are proposing this. For visually impaired and disabled persons, the TT scheme is their collective offer. It is an offer that is incredibly important for them to be able to live a normal everyday life. Today there are considerable variations between the states, and the scheme is deficient. We will extend this scheme to several counties and eventually introduce a national TT system for users with special needs. To achieve climate targets, a few more have to implement new technologies, such as electric car, hydrogen and hybrid solutions. In this context, increased development of charging infrastructure and filling stations is very important. Therefore, the Workers' Party in the charging scheme increases the benefits of buying chargeable hybrid cars, and there may be a reduction in the price for each individual buyer of NOK 100 000. Every year a large number of people are killed or seriously injured in traffic. It's heartbreaking for the survivors and the relatives. In the national transport plan, we have a target of halving the number of people seriously injured and killed by 2024. If we're going to achieve these goals, we're going to have to do a lot more. That is why, together with the rest of the Committee, we are asking the government to promote an action plan for increased road safety. At the same time, we know that the main reason for several of the accidents is speed and driving in a drug-induced state. Our organisations in the field of road safety are making a great effort here for very small amounts. If we're going to slow down a little bit and get people to drive off, we know that mind-creating work is incredibly important, and that it has to start all the way down at kindergarten level. Safe Traffic, Motor Drivers’ Association and MA Youth have an important role and are important drivers in this national road safety work. If we're going to achieve the goals, they have to get the funds to do the job. The working party wants to strengthen this activity and therefore proposes to increase the funding for Safe Traffic by 17 million. SEK and MA with 5 million. kr for 2015. Attitude-making work is not enough in itself. A recent study by the Transport Economic Institute shows that one halves the number of fatalities and hard injuries with route ATK. The working party believes that the government must now open up to use this in the most accident-affected sections – and especially in tunnels. I hope the government will take this seriously. At the same time, I would like to refer to the decision of the Stortinget in June 2013, where Stortinget asked the government to consider including a provision on alcohol in school buses. Today, there are different practices in the counties. We are calling for the government's actions and assessments in this matter. Research and development are incredibly important for the transport sector. We in the Workers' Party assume that the government has four research and development of environmental and climate-friendly transport more time in the future. We've noticed that the government cuts 14 million. kr in research and development. We in the Labour Party are very critical of that and in our budget we want to increase the posts by 16 million. kr. We are also increasing in our alternative budget the appropriations for Enova by 100 million. kr in order to carry out Transnova's tasks in terms of more sustainable transport. The follow-up of funds is absolutely necessary and essential. Research and development gives us knowledge of how to get to the low-carbon society, which gives us important facts, and can also create innovation and business development. The working party is concerned that road freight is increasing. These are the other representatives of the Workers' Party who will be involved. A new report estimates that when the sulphur Directive is introduced from 1 January 2015, it could lead to 100 000 new trucks on the road. I have today sent a written question to the Council of State to know what the government thinks about this, and when they will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for measures that will counteract this. We have recorded that the government is essentially following up the red-green transport plan, but we also note that they do not follow their own promises in the transport sector. The right promised 2 billion. kr more annually, and the Progress Party promised 45 billion. kr more annually. The working party and the red-green overfilled our NTP when we were in government, and we are now continuing in opposition to comply with what we have said we should do. As for the story of who does what in opposition, I think the numbers here speak for themselves. I would like to say that there are an incredible number of good people working in the transport sector, but the council and the government are concerned that we should think about new things and organize things better. That is what we in the Labour Party think is wise and a good idea. We've said in the NTP that we want both to cut down the planning time and to coordinate objections. Obviously, we have to take some action in the railway sector, but privatisation is not the solution. We hear the government say that reforms must come. We wait and see what they come with. We never manage to organize ourselves away from the fact that the money must be on the table if you are to roll out double tracks on the railway, or – for that matter – asphalt. Nor should we try to fool ourselves that it is the organization that is the main reason that we have a aftermath on the road and the track. The responsibility lies with this room after many decades when you have not given the money you should have allowed for this to be done. Fortunately, there was a trend that turned in eight years with a red-green government – far from enough, but it turned around. I finally want to take a tiny turn in Rogaland, because I am very happy that we have now got a unanimous committee to ask the government to look at the possibilities for a connection between the Ålgårdsbanen and the Jærbanen. Here many people have worked a lot for many years, but I would particularly like to draw out SV, both at home and here in Stortinget, who have never given up and who have kept the pressure up, which means that we are standing there today. So I'm very sorry that it's just the Workers' Party and the Center Party – I also think the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens' Party – who want to join in and say that one should project with double tracks on the railway to Egersund. I remember very well who promised what in the campaign. There are at least three of the parties that do not support this today. It is one of the most important measures to establish good housing and labour market regions in the region from which I come. The Labour Party budget raises health, it raises climate, and it raises knowledge. I take up the proposals from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e325	The representative Eirin Sund then addressed the proposals she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e330	Railway maintenance has been neglected for several years. Under the red-green government, the maintenance crew increased by 7.8 billion. kr, or 1 bn. kr per year. If the proposal of the Stoltenberg II Government for 2014 had been adopted last autumn, it would have been put at 18.3 billion. kr. It was not adopted, and that's why we're in a different situation this year. Fortunately, it was already taken last year to reduce the maintenance allowance both from the government and not least after the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. How could the red-green government sit still on a siding and watch the maintenance movement increase so dramatically in the eight years of their power?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e337	First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have been involved in limiting the budget of this government in terms of rail and public transport. Now this budget looks much better because the Left and Christian People's Party is genuinely concerned with rail, public transport and climate, so I'm very pleased about that. So that's how the story can be seen, but when the red-green government sat, we increased the investments to the railway from 2 billion. NOK 9 billion. kr – far from enough, but really a priority from the red-green government. We then knew, and we now know, that we couldn't take it back, and the aftermath was so great. But we didn't sit on any sidings. We really prioritised railway high – far from enough, as I said before, but it's not a correct description of what the representative from the Right is now trying to create a picture of. We're going to keep doing that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e344	Many years of neglect by different governments mean that Norway is not particularly well placed in infrastructure development. This applies both to the road and the track, and in spite of the oil fund and the rule of action, which says that one through the return from this fund should pay special attention to infrastructure development, we must recognise that we are far behind compared to countries that are naturally comparable to one another. A new majority of the Grand Duchy has been clear that new approaches are needed and more resources are needed to speed up development and change in both road and rail development. Coherent expansion, shorter planning times and new ways of organizing development have been mentioned and notified by the government, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left. What are the needs of the Workers' Party for new ways of organising road and rail development in Norway and, where appropriate, what action does the Workers' Party think should be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e353	Thank you very much for your question. I said in my post that I am very pleased that the government – when it talks about organisation – is lifting up shorter planning times, more coherent development and that a person wants to coordinate the opposition institute. This is a policy that is already in the national transport plan, so this is something that we put our whole heart behind. We want to join in and grab if it's wise to take new grips. But we don't want to organize ourselves away and into something that might give less money to go and go. When we see what the government comes into its reforms, we'll see if there's any of what we can be involved in. But no matter how we organize, the money has to be on the table. We also believe that privatisation or using OPS is not a good solution to get more. There's no good way to spend the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e364	The budget of the Labour Party is very marked by the fact that public health is a supporter. In our sector, bicycles can be used to promote public health. Cycling is good for the environment, it is good for the air quality in cities, it is good for the individual. It gives you well-being to cycle, but also a lot of training, and it can help prevent cardiovascular diseases. In this respect, it is a little surprising that the Workers' Party budgets 30 million. kr more for bicycle routes than the government provided. We see that after the budget agreement, this ends with 45 million. kr more than the working party budgets in its alternative budget. The left had an ambition of 500 million. kr more for cycle paths. My question to the representative is: Why does the Workers' Party not have greater ambitions to use bicycles to achieve the goal of better public health?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e373	First of all, I would like to say to the representative Abid Q. Raja that I am incredibly happy that the Left has also affected the government in the right direction in this matter. We have said that in the transport sector we should have an increase in walking and cycling routes. That's why we're proposing $30 million. kr to the cycling reward scheme. And then we're going to say 100 million. Of the billion that we give to the urban environment packages, we have to go for walking and cycling. The representative is absolutely right when he says we won't be able to achieve our goals if we don't do this. I recognise that the Left has greater ambitions. But based on the ambitions of the Workers' Party – that we should sincerely prioritise this – and I believe that the ambitions of the Left are quite similar. Actually, the representative Abid Q. Raja thinks more like I do than the government does. So if we beat our wise heads together, we can do a lot of good for walking and cycling paths even in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e382	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e385	Good transport solutions are particularly important for Norway, a sparsely populated nation with large distances. This also means that we need to place a great deal of emphasis on infrastructure measures that provide predictability for our citizens and provide an effective development where the various modes of transport must be seen in the context. To get this done, it is not just to spend money. A bad project is so absolutely no better by granting more. Despite more money for the Ministry of Transport, the maintenance allowance has increased with immeasurable strength over the years. It shows a lack of ability to prioritize and not least get value for money. Now we're going from a red-green decay to a new bet. We're thinking new. We want to organize the sector much better, and we want to make sure that each of the heads used are used correctly. The road network is our main infrastructure. Effective and safe roads are essential to the competitiveness of industry and to meet the needs of its citizens, which this government has set itself as an objective to ensure. The establishment of an infrastructure fund which is now 70 billion. NOK, with escalating to 100 billion. During this four-year period, a government is making visible its ability to act by prioritising funds early in order to reap the returns for use as early as 2015. This government has faith in reforms to change both the way we finance, the way we plan, and not least how we build. It is interesting to hear red-green politicians remind us when transport reforms come – reforms they have not previously wanted to welcome, reforms they rejected when they themselves put in government. If we go back in time, we see no large grip that has been taken. You've been following the traditional trail for decades. The representative, Sund, was in precisely this that it has to be taken into account — but years after year, roads have tended to be lost, small areas of knowledge have been built, and the whole of the gap has been completely absent. I would say that the time was overdue to think new. The due time is over. The North is a traveling race. We are influenced by how other countries solve their transport challenges. People around the country don't understand that we who live in such a rich country are unable to have roads and railways that work, or a train that goes when it's going to. When the committee was travelling in Austria, we looked at and learned about road companies, about transport police and about the basis for calculating trajectory choices. It is not surprising that our cooperation parties support us in many of the reforms that are now coming. When the Progress Party promoted parts of these matters in previous years, we were dissented, but now they are there. It actually shows that the Progress Party in government makes a difference. But of course, it's a lot to take off. We also believe that investing more of the oil wealth in domestic assets would provide a much better return on our common wealth. It is about building better housing and working regions, cutting transport costs and increasing road safety. Too often we have seen counties sitting with the state council for their region. This has not been very reliable for most people. Decisions shall be taken and subsequently implemented on the basis of socio-economic profitability, which gives the best and most effective payoff for each tax credit used. We adopted an NTP in ours that, as seen, was made by a red-green majority government, and it stood very well in it, for all things, but the opposition at the time had a number of proposals for changes that were not adopted. Now we're at a new crossroads. New approaches are being taken: structural changes, half-way planning time, rapid expansion, less bureaucratic procedures, new road standards, more accurate figures, etc. There's a lot of work going on. Aviation is the sector that, compared with other countries' offers in this area, comes out well, but here too we are thinking new. There's a lot going on in this area. Avinor is facing a comprehensive investment programme in the years ahead to meet expected growth in demand in aviation. It is important that we now discuss in more detail the framework conditions of aviation and industry. Good transport policy is so much more than just road, track, ship and bicycle. Good, forward-looking transport policy intervenes in many other areas – which I have dealt with in the past. Finally, people's everyday life in the field of infrastructure must work, it must be simplified, and it must make life easier for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e413	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e417	In June 2013, the current transport plan was adopted. The biggest critics at the time were the Progress Party, who would tear down all the bombs and spend 455 billion. kr more on transportation. They also said that the NTP gave a bet that was too small and too late. Now we see that the same party has occupied the government offices and has the opportunity to do something about this, but that's not happening. So far from what the Progress Party said in opposition, what they are now saying in position. The budget entered by the Progress Party and presented on 8 October is actually a good budget – almost in line with adopted NTP. But it's not near any overfill, and a moon landing away from the Progress Party's alternative NTP. It's actually like the Workers' Party has 1.5 billion. In its budget, it is not the Progress Party that is over-fulfilling, but the Workers' Party. My question is: does the Progress Party representative think that there has been a budget for transport that is in line with what the Progress Party said in the election campaign, and with what their minister has said for a whole year now, about over-fulfilling?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e426	What's most important to us with our budget is that we actually take the big grips. That means it's not useful to put the spade in the ground when you don't know where to go and what to do. For us in the Progress Party, it has been very important to raise the whole of our transport policy and say that it is the basic plan of our society in order for everything else to work. In the case of the NTP, the fulfillment is currently almost 7 billion. NOK over the form to comply with the NTP by means of a steady escalation of appropriations. In fact, in the 2015 budget, we allocate more than necessary to meet a quarter of the NTP for this major period. Looking back on 2011 and 2007, the appropriations were lower than a quarter of the NTP. Then the red-greens sat with the majority. We've got a huge aftermath. We're going to put planning funds in the order of 1.3 billion. kr, and we have major reforms, including: the infrastructure fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e435	There is a proposal for a national road safety plan in the budget position currently under discussion in the Storting. Measures in this plan are going to bring us closer to the zero vision targets. We know today that in many cases traffic death and serious health damage are caused in traffic by a driver in a drug-induced condition. Many have been concerned that these challenges need to be met with new measures, where not only increased controls but also, for example, increased controls. increased use of alcohol is becoming part of the instruments. Is this action on which the Progress Party will participate and what other action does the Progress Party consider to be the most effective against drug driving?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e440	This plan will now be worked on in the department, and it is clear that we are going to sit with our good cooperation party and find good solutions to this. But we have a challenge, and we have it in common, and that's that among those who run the drug, it's probably only a third that's influenced by alcohol. The greatest danger is that of those affected by drugs and pills, and important steps must be taken to be able to take the different individuals. Now the representative asked me how we're going to take the new grips. I believe this with mind-building work is very, very important – early efforts to understand that when a person sits behind the wheel, it doesn't belong to have some kind of drug influence. And then we have to look at attitudes in general -- what it's like when someone gets behind the wheel. But we are going to contribute to the cooperation that is now coming, and of course we are going to discuss this with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e449	Some of the things that were very focused on in the national transport plan were that they wanted both faster and more comprehensive development, and they have largely joined the Progress Party, and they are often used in their posts. That's good. But then my question is, is it this whole idea that makes you cut 55 million? kr on the E16 over the File Mountain?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e454	Some of the projects that are there are going on according to a red-green plan, and where we see, after having had negotiations here, that something might be delayed a little bit. For us in the Progress Party, the most important thing is to see the whole – the whole of the different modes of transport, the whole of using what is present, most effectively. That is to say, instead of building clattery and divided, two and three kilometers of construction, where one comes in with equipment, with people, and then pulls out to build somewhere else later, it's important to see the whole thing. It also applies to E16 above File Mountain. Seeing things in context – maybe we have other solutions in the future, wanting to do it a completely different way – must be the goal for all of us here on the Storting. We've agreed, we've heard that, among other things. The representative of the Workers' Party has been concerned that something new is happening. And that's where I think we're all going to be willing to lift up in a flock and watch: what is Norway now in need of construction? And then we have to raise our eyes and build completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e461	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e464	The transport sector needs to be renewed and the new political majority is now taking new action. Not only is the growth in next year's transport budget record high, but new reforms have been announced both within road and rail – reforms that can contribute not only to more road, rail, walking and cycling routes, but to a safer travel day, more environmentally friendly and more efficient. For the Christian People's Party, increased efforts in transport are being made to build the country in a way that can provide better accessibility, increased road safety and more emphasis on environmental considerations. Through good transport solutions, we make everyday life easier for individuals, including those with disabilities. We're going to get better access to business, and we're going to connect town and country. Investment in infrastructure is an investment in a future that contributes to increased quality of life, facilitates more value creation and creates new opportunities for development. The transport sector has suffered too long from a lack of resources and on the one hand unforeseeable conditions with poor road standards compared to other European countries, from a lack of punctuality on the railways and from failure to provide collective services. The Christian People's Party will have greater predictability in road and rail development. We want financial instruments where planned and started projects can be implemented more fully in the context. We are looking for new forms of organisation that, together with the increase in appropriations, will also in the next few years contribute to an investment rate that can provide more road, track and collective. Strengthening the train as an attractive collective offer requires punctuality, sufficient capacity, good comfort and high safety. For the Christian People's Party, it was therefore important to contribute to the start of the work of recovering some of the delays in railway maintenance that have increased every year until 2015. For the first time in many years, the maintenance set run is reduced. The maintenance framework is increasing. It provides for the Christian People's Party and the cooperation parties through the decision here today. Operationally stable and high-capacity infrastructure and train equipment handling large transport flows are necessary, absolutely necessary to improve train provision. There is no doubt that a more well-functioning railway is an important and absolutely necessary tool in the work of facilitating housing pressures in major cities and making it easier for more people to choose collectively. Ninety-five million. SEK to a completely new reward scheme for the construction of walking and cycling routes are traces that the Christian People's Party is pleased to be able to rely on budgetary unity with the three cooperation parties, a system that municipalities and county councils can apply for over the whole country and which can give up to 50 pst. investment grants. It is a central objective to achieve safe, continuous walking and cycling paths. 8 pst. the share of bicycles in 2023 is not an ambitious objective. We therefore believe it is important to provide tools to facilitate increased use of bicycles, safer school roads and several kilometres of continuous cycling routes. The work on road safety requires an increased focus. After several years of decreasing numbers of fatalities and severe injuries, this picture has changed in 2013 and 2014. This calls for a broad review of the challenges and concrete proposals for measures that can make everyday life safer and safer for all road users. This applies not least to children and young people. All children shall have the right to a safe school path. The duty to go to school must be followed by a right to come safely to and from. It is therefore very positive that an overall committee initiates a comprehensive national road safety plan. In this work, we also invite voluntary organisations to participate. In the field of road safety, we are also pleased to be able to contribute an increase in relation to the government’s proposal for road transport work. Safe Traffic plays an important role in road safety work. In particular, it is important to teach children and young people safe driving behaviour. We're happy to increase the appropriation by 5 million. SEK to Safe Traffic. The National Association of Cyclists is central to improving and improving cycling traffic. This year's budgetary settlement also gave us an increase to this organisation. The new political majority has high ambitions on behalf of Society Norway. I am pleased that the cooperation parties are already delivering in their first budget. I will later address issues relating to the TT system, the electric car deployment and other aspects relating to road safety. We'll get back to that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e487	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e490	I know the Christian People's Party as a party that sees the important relationship between city and country, and in many ways hits the Workers' Party politically. While the government does not have any concrete measures to invest in public transport in the districts, the majority, of whom Gruvan has chosen to be a part, are also clear that they will implement good arrangements that work well in scattered rural areas. Several county councils, where the Christian People's Party is part of the majority, disagree with this. Is the Christian People's Party and the representative of the Countess satisfied that the government has not come back with any concrete ideas about the districts' collective offerings, as requested by the Stortinge in the last year's budgetary procedure? What are the Christian People's Party's thoughts about these kinds of arrangements, which work well in some states, also with the transportation of orders, and which then gives the opportunity to look at, among other things. The TT system, on which the mine has been particularly concerned, in a context?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e501	First of all, I would like to say that when it comes to building town and country together, which both the representative of Kjerkol and the Christian People's Party are engaged in, it is clear that the increased appropriations for road and rail are perhaps the most important instruments. That is why we are very pleased that this year we are able to make a proposal that is not only a strong commitment on the road and the track, but also takes back some of the delays we have in maintenance, which means a lot to District Norway. With regard to the scheme specifically referred to by the representative Kjerkol, we have been concerned that looking at new opportunities and measures should not create a vacuum, so that good arrangements are now being cleaned without new arrangements being in place. So the Christian People's Party's task here is to make sure that we get new arrangements in place, so that we can continue the good measures that we have in many parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e509	I see with pleasure that the Christian People's Party, along with the Left, has managed to draw the budget in a slightly more correct direction, but there are several concerns, and the representative Kjerkol was within some of them. In addition, we see that the proposal to close Leirin at the Feners is still pending, and I record a significant concern among many people who have small airports when thinking about decommissioning processes. Will the Christian People's Party be involved in the decommissioning of a number of short-haul airports, or is this a one-off thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e516	I would rather say the opposite: in the case of Leirin, the agreement is precisely to strengthen the basis for Leirin to be a base for charter traffic in the future. We are committed to strengthening regional travel and business, and therefore we are committed to a whole new system of support under Leirin, which can take care of the value creation potential of the region and which this scheme will contribute by state resources. In the case of aerodromes and short-haul aerodromes, we are concerned that this shall continue to be fully justified aerodromes and that Avinor shall be the owner. At the same time, we see that some of the services performed at these aerodromes can be performed by private means, which can provide an efficiency potential, and which can thus help to strengthen the runway aerodromes in the future, thus ensuring the important function that they have in the regions of which they are part.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e523	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e526	For the Center Party, building the country is more important than tax havens for a few. Involvement in transport is an important tool for putting the whole country into use. Food and transport policy is a hand in hand. We're shrinking the country with good infrastructure projects. This is important in long-term Norway, which has a population and large production of goods and services around the country. Good transport solutions mean a lot to people's everyday lives, whether we're talking about road, rail, sea, air traffic, the bike path to school or the digital highway. For the Central Party, the most important step is to follow up the National Transport Plan, because we need a continued uplift in the maintenance of infrastructure on both road, rail and sea. The centre party believes that there is a need to strengthen racial protection beyond what the government proposes. This is one of the areas where the government does not follow up well enough, either in relation to the national transport plan or in relation to the fact that it is raging more often than before and in new places. Racial protection contributes to the promotion and security of both business transport, school children and daily travellers. There's no good feeling to fear for when the next rock race comes. The centre party also believes that removing bottlenecks, which contribute to the predictability of business, is an important step, and therefore we propose increasing appropriations for road, both for maintenance, for investment and for a pot to remove bottlenecks for the transport of timber. It is almost incomprehensible that the cooperation parties reduce the allocation of E16 over Philly and Kutter 245 million. kr for renewal measures. This contrasts in stark contrast with the rhetoric of the cooperation parties that they should increase their investment in road development in addition to the national transport plan. The centre party also does not support the cut off of national tourist roads. We also believe that the county councils are making a great effort to maintain and build new roads. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes increased allocations for district roads of 400 million. kr and increased loss compensation for changes in the income system. Good transport solutions are important for people and businesses regardless of whether they are buses, ferries, speedboats or better country roads. We want more goods on track and cool. Too much goods are being transported on the road. That is why we are proposing increased appropriations for the maintenance of the railway and investment in, among other things. multiple crossing tracks. There are important measures to ensure better regularity for freight operators. When the quantity of goods on the track goes down, it is primarily because the regularity fails. Another area where government has lowered its priorities is coastal infrastructure measures, in particular linked to the short sea shipping strategy. We have a lot of coastline in Norway, and the sea route needs to be used more. The centre party will provide port development and fairway operations. We want more freight transport at sea. Land and sea must be better connected so that we get better intermodality. The centre party will have a strengthened commitment to public transport in urban areas. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are strengthening the reward scheme by 140 million. kr. As part of the Centre Party's initiative on commuters, we want an action plan for access parking. Better exchange between car and public transport is necessary to improve the accessibility of large urban areas. Collective solutions and organised transport solutions, TT, are important across the country. That is why we are reversing public transport in the districts, the so-called KID scheme, and want to strengthen the pilot scheme for TT. We want to stimulate a more environmentally friendly car park. It is important to facilitate the use by more people of electric cars, hybrid cars and, subsequently, hydrogen cars. That's why we're increasing the benefits of buying rechargeable hybrid cars. We are also strengthening Enova's budget by 284 million. kr over the framework of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, so that Enova can play its important role in expanding the charging infrastructure across the country, now that the government is moving Transnova's tasks to Enova. The centre party believes that there is a need for increased broadband and not cut bets, as proposed by the government. That is why we have proposed an increase of 165 million. in addition to the government's proposal, to meet the digitised everyday life. Air transport accounts for an important part of passenger transport in this long-distance country. In some regions, this is the only real option on long trips. Airport availability, good route options and moderate prices are important for those who have no alternative to participate actively in society. The centre lot will therefore maintain the short-range network and strengthen the framework conditions of these aerodromes. We also want to continue Ferensen Airport Leirin, as it is today, under Avinor. The general budget of the Centre Party for Transport is a proposal for living towns, green cities and small differences. I'll bring this up with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e554	The representative of Shelmo Nordås has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e559	After decades of increasing maintenance kits there will be a change in 2015, and we will have a reduction in the maturity that happened under the red-green ones. It is really quite incomprehensible that the previous government deprived maintenance so strongly, but I understand that this was a theme that they did not care about in particular. Why else would the Central Party have to ask the Minister of Finance a budgetary question about the development of maintenance kits in recent years? Had the centre party been only a little interested in maintenance, yes if they had only had a hint of interest in the theme, they had followed the development carefully, they had known that the decay increased, they had not even dared to ask the question, for they had been ashamed of the answer. Most farmers have a decent delivery gel, and it is that you should always leave the farm in better condition than when you took over. Does the representative of Sjelmo Nordås feel that the three previous Ministers for Transport, from the Central Party, have followed this delivery gel when it comes to the maintenance of our infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e566	There is no doubt that the previous government with the Central Party Councils of the Ministry of Transport has been able to overcomply with two national transport plans in all sectors. It's a little strange that the representative Steffensen shoots hard at one of the parties in the red-green government when one has at the same time been involved in cutting as much innovation as one has done in this budget agreement: 245 million. kr for renewal, which is thus maintenance. We don't know what it's going to mean by consequences. Maintenance is important, we can agree on that. In today’s national transport plan, maintenance was significantly lifted because it was thought that there was a need for it, both on the road, on the road and at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e573	An important objective of climate policy is to improve road-to-sea freight transport. In several studies, inter alia: from the Riksrevision this year, it has been pointed out that the amount of transport costs associated with the use of the seaway may be a significant cause of loss of road. Will the Centre contribute to reducing the costs of maritime transport through different types of tax relief or other cost reductions in order to achieve the climate policy objectives of getting more goods across from road to sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e578	It is quite right, as the representative Groevan points out, that there are a significant number of maritime transport charges and challenges. We received a report in the previous period, which was behind more research, which points to how many different fees you had, and how many different levels you had to deal with. It's a matter that the Center Party is very busy looking at in addition to investing in both ports and fairways and after each town's tunnel, which we believe is important in this way. We also have to be able to connect ports better on the land side, because in many places it is actually a major problem for the efficiency of ports that there are no rail tracks or good road links to the port. So, yes, thank you, we're in and we're also looking at the kind of measures that the Count sketches.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e585	I wonder if the representative of Sjelmo Nordås thinks it's the right use of the community's funds when the government together with the Christian People's Party and the Left will use 325 million after the agreement. kr more to a reward scheme – an increase of 35 pst. in relation to last year – compared to the fact that the Central Party budgets in its alternative budget with an increase of 140 million. kr. Is there a right priority – as the agreement has now become?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e590	It's a little difficult to deal with the whole deal, because there's a bunch of things there that we don't want to support. But an increase in the means of reward thought we were absolutely right, so we also added an increase in our budget. I would also like to see more people come into overall urban environmental agreements, because I think that is absolutely necessary. There's one thing that I hope the Center Party, the Left and more can push to achieve, because you need to get a step further when it comes to the overall thinking around the urban environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e598	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e601	The left is well pleased with the budgetary agreement in the field of transport. It is a good budget for public transport, for rail, for bicycles, and it is a budget to reduce the maintenance run on the road. Many reports have been made on the severity of climate change, how much needs to be done, and that no sector is exempt from the transition we must undergo. The transport sector is one of the major emissions sectors and must take its share of responsibility for reducing national greenhouse gas emissions. The main priority of the left in the transport policy is therefore to build competitive infrastructure for environmentally friendly traffic. This is one of the most important national tasks in the coming years. The left considers that all transport growth in and between the largest cities in the future should be within rail and public transport. Today's railway line is curved, old, characterized by instability, technical defects and climatic stresses. Left will rust up today's tracks and build new and more competitive lanes. We want the railway to be the backbone of the transport system for both short-haul, long-haul and freight traffic. We in the Left believe that double tracks from Oslo to Halden, to Skien and Lillehammer and railway construction around the largest cities are the first stage in a modern rail network between the parts of Norway, both for passenger transport and for freight. A modern double track on the Eastfold Railway is the first stage of a high-speed rail to Europe. There is reason to be concerned about the maintenance of the railway and the delays that this will bring to train traffic. The rail between parts of the country accounts for a significant share of the train’s passenger transport work and has a significant share of freight transport between parts of the country. It is therefore gratifying that the budget for the first time ensures that the maintenance run on the Norwegian railway goes down, not up, as it increased by 1 billion. kr on average each year under the red-green. I am also pleased that we have several departures on the Salt Pendant, and that the Bratsberg Railway is being continued. It was supposed to be just missing, because in the left we don't put down lines. When we know that all these improvements in the budget come to the top of a good rail budget with the purchase of multiple trains, the creation of multiple flights, more to planning and initial investment, we can state that the Left together with the government and the Christian People's Party have delivered the rail budget of the times. And we're going to keep doing that in the years that come. The aim of the climate agreement is to include all growth in urban passenger traffic with public transport, bicycles and corridors. The left is pleased that Akershus/Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim will receive State funding of 50 p.m. to specified collective projects, and I have to add that there is a bet beyond the framework of the NTP, the transport plan presented by the red-green ones, where they refused to take on similar obligations. I am also pleased with the strengthening of the reward scheme for public transport and pedestrian and cycle routes involved in the budgetary settlement. It will ensure that traffic growth in the major cities can be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors, and there will be room for planning large projects such as the Ahusban and new T-Bahn tunnel through Oslo. 35 pst. growth in appropriations of one year is staggering, but this too is only the beginning of something far more extensive in the coming years. New T-road to Fornebu from the Major Studio via Lysaker, Vækerø and Skøyen will provide a powerful, punctual and attractive collective service to Fornebu that has the potential to take on future traffic growth, contribute to reducing traffic congestion in Oslo and Akershus while facilitating urban development along the lines between Lysaker and Majorstua. Today's bus-based service has reached its capacity limit and will not be able to meet future increased needs as a result of planned urban development at Fornebu. Municipalities and county councils have a significant responsibility to ensure good conditions for the cyclists, including: by building continuous networks of pedestrian and cyclist routes. And there is a great need for the development of walking and cycling routes on a lot of county and local roads. We are now increasing the space for action within the county road and municipal road reward scheme and the development of 75 million walking and cycling routes. kr. It will make a strong contribution to road safety, not least in terms of school roads for children and young people. In total, it'll be $95 million. kr available through the 2015 grant scheme. That's good, because there's a great potential in bicycles as a means of transport. It becomes much more reasonable and easier to make green choices when people are going to buy and use a car next year. The budget agreement is nearly 700 million. kr in tax relief on the most environmentally friendly cars and the most environmentally friendly fuel. Loadable hybrids have a significant reduction in the purchase fees, while removing the biodiesel tax imposed by the red-green ones, and introducing a fossil gas tax, which makes biofuels more reasonable than fossil fuels. I am pleased that both the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party, in cooperation with us, show the need for important reforms throughout the transport sector. We look forward to further cooperation on both road companies, new railway organisation and a more efficient tolling system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e625	During the course of the year’s budgetary procedure, there has been a lot of back and forth on the route to Fenernes Airport Leirin. In the newspaper Valdres last Saturday, Left’s Wandering Representative Ketil Kjenseth said that the transport committee’s suspension was to be changed and that requirements for the closure of the air route in 2016 should be removed. In Oppland Workerblad yesterday, the same Kenseth said: ‘There has been no decision on further scheduled services in this round.’ In the newspaper Valdres today, the same Kjeseth says that he admits that he was wrong: "I am a bit of a apprentice," he says. But he adds: ‘Route flights are not within these plans at present. But no one knows what happens by 2016». He promises that the Left continues to fight for regular services. Can the left's transport policy figure now explain: What does the Left think about regular services, I underline regular services, to Fenernes Airport Leirin?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e635	I have been up there and visited the neighbouring municipalities that are affected by this, and who are very concerned about getting a good solution from the central government, from the politicians. We in the Left are concerned with this question, and many of the quotes that Myrli refers to just show that the Left is very concerned about this. Here we have managed to find a good solution with the government parties, in my opinion. Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left have written a good comment in the setting that addresses this question. What we are particularly concerned about is that, together with the region, we are able to maintain an aerodrome, so that there is charter traffic from those countries from which it is particularly desirable to be charter traffic from, from, England and Germany, and that it becomes possible. I am very pleased that this is being raised in the vote, and that it will be possible to do this in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e640	I mean, not regular services?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e645	It's not access to comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e648	The representative Raja was at something in the railway operation that they've made on the Salt Pendulum and the Bratsberg Railway, I'm very happy about that, we share our opinion, and we also support it in the committee. Now it's urgent to get satisfactory solutions for Rana Gruber's need for the Northern Railway, where they transport ores from Ørtfjell to Mo in Rana. There is heavy load, there is a need for upgrades of the train line. I note that in the committee, only the Centre Party and the Workers' Party pointed this out – in the last period, there was a unanimous committee that was in charge of it. I would like to ask the representative Raja if he can participate in the pressure to ensure that the Nordlandsbahn is upgraded, so that it can be transported ore with the new wagons, which is important for the workplace located in the municipality of Rana.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e653	The left has given priority to rail investment in all its alternative budgets, and I would like to refer to our alternative budget for the year that comes when we have put in some of our budgets in this area, i.e. in the transport sector. 2.5 B.C.E. kr more. Then it is in both 1.3 billion. SEK more for public transport, 500 million. NOK more for cycle paths, and something over 650 million. kr more to railway, when including both the lag that had to be addressed, and not least initial investment. Left and I are very pleased with the invitation that comes from the Center Party. We're going to help work because Norwegian railways are able to deliver both passenger and freight services, and then we're going to help be a partner to look at the appropriate solutions on the Nordlandsbahn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e658	The maintenance run on the railway increased – as the representative Abid Q. Raja knows – by 1 billion. kr from 2005 to 2013. I also hope the Left thinks that this is a historic day, when for the first time in many decades we stop the decay in the maintenance of Norwegian railway lines, which we witnessed under the red-green ones. We are – as the representative knows – in the process of a major rail reform. We've got a lot of input, because there's a great need for change, especially with regard to passenger traffic. This is where many people are calling for increased competition. What does the Left think about rail reform and increased competition in passenger traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e665	I started by saying that we are very pleased with the budget agreement in the field of transport – I thank you for the opportunity to underline it again. I believe this is a good budget for public transport, for rail and to reduce the maintenance run on the road. In addition, with this budget, we contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our sector – through the electricity car benefits we continue to bring, through plug-in hybrid cars and other hybrid cars, through biodiesel, biogas, sales obligations, etc. So this is a big step in the right direction. There are many steps that remain, but now we are moving in the right direction, both the government parties and the cooperation parties, collectively. As far as rail reform is concerned, we look forward very much to the work that we are going to do. We are not engaged in competition for the sake of competition or privatisation for the sake of privatisation. The purpose must be to get more railways out of each krona, and that there should be better transport systems for most people. Here it is a great potential for improvement across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e675	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e678	When I was on the T-Bahn today down from Furuset on my way to work, I thought of an old butcher with Bob Dylan from the 1970s, «There’s a slow, slow train comin’ up around the gang». There's probably a lot of people who have listened to him, it's a very popular disc. And this song might be considered a hymn -- since we've had some salmeson here earlier this week -- because he's from Bob Dylan's most religious period. I put aside all other interpretations of this song than that both the train and the track go slower than they can at best, and it annoys me that the Storting with this budget does not use enough resources to equip the country for the future by maintaining and building good collective solutions. We're not in the Transport Committee, but we're concerned about transport policy. We have a long-term country, and transport policy is – as we know – the most widely used way of greetings at home. It's about how people get everyday to jump. By means of the budgetary agreement between the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party, we have received a government budget where the turnaround wins over the backbone of the railway. The increment for the road is 16.7 pst, while the increase for the railway is 15 pst. In comparison, as the representative Sund also said: During the eight years with the red-green in government, the path increased by 63 pst, while the path to the railway increased by 158 pst. It is good that the budget agreement has increased railway maintenance. Maybe it's not maintenance that makes people get statues after themselves in our neighborhoods, but nevertheless it's important to ensure maintenance. This agreement gives $0.5 billion. kr more. In the alternative budget of SV, we're going to double what's in the equation and put it at $950 million. kr for maintenance. We've also found space for more planning tools for Fornebubanen and Ahusbanen and for the track tunnel we're going to get in Oslo now after we get the KVU in ours, and we're going to preserve the Bratsberg Railway. Elles, we have prioritised investments in addition to maintenance in order to obtain, among other things, freight traffic on the Alnabru terminal and the main freight corridors, and we are concerned about preventing the race and impacts of climate change – because there is no sense in having a railway if it remains calm and prevents natural disasters that result from climate change. We will also give priority to environmentally friendly rail and maritime freight routes, for example. northwards in the country from Bodø. I'm glad that SV has found room for more tailoring for both our national and county roads, because we feel that what people are most busy about in everyday life is that they should get where they are going. Yellow strips may be as important as free, new highways all over the place. The rest of the whole year's rest periods and daily rest periods for freight drivers who are running a long time are also an important matter for which we have seen money. One objective of the climate agreement is to tackle the growth of passenger traffic in metropolitan areas with public transport, bicycles and corridors. It is the reward scheme for public transport and the planned urban environment agreements that will form the basis for this. In total, these two measures will have to be granted approximately 1.75 billion. Every year in the four-year period we are now in, to achieve the objectives of the national transport plan that we have all been aware of. The new budgetary agreement between the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party, plus 325 million. kr to the reward scheme. In sum, this provides a reward scheme for public transport and urban environment agreements of 1.37 billion. kr. That means it builds up a lag for bets in the current year of well over 1 billion. kr that we, like the Labour Party, go in to change by allowing extra. In SV, we are sorry that there are small crowns coming to the lists, and that the promises are broken. A much smaller cycle path is built on the highways than is promised, and in the cycling effort on the highways, a cut of about 50 million is experienced. Compared to 2014. Yesterday I saw that there is an exciting test project going on looking at the public health effect of people using electric bicycles. I would really want us to do a lot more on bicycles, so that more people could have chosen this way of getting around. It's positive that we get a reward scheme for bicycle paths in the municipalities on the county roads, but it doesn't justify the cut that the state road policy is experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e709	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e712	I would like to take the opportunity to commend SV for many years to have finished finally working on the Ålgårdsbanen. And I want to commend the representative, Gjerstad, especially for the good cooperation we've had in the last couple of weeks to get to a unanimous committee. In the financial position, SV had the proposal on the Ålgårdsbanen, but drew it on Monday so that we would rather manage to do what we have now done in the committee. Now there is no SV in the committee, but I still want to ask SV, because as SV sees it is now in the committee a proposal from the Workers' Party that only the Centre supports, that we want one to project double tracks on the Jærbanen until Egersund – the railway takes on SV, and I know that this is a matter of concern to the SV in Rogaland: What does the representative Gjerstad think about this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e719	This is a proposal that we will probably vote for today. I would also like to thank the representative Sund for the good cooperation we have had on the important decision that lies here today, that a government is asking for a connection of the Ålgårdsbanen to the Jærbanen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e726	It is a unified political goal to get more goods from road to road. It's good for the environment, and it'll relieve the road network. But if we're going to do this, we need to increase punctuality and predictability on the track. It means increased commitment to maintenance and renewal, as the government has now committed. Then it is a fact that the expiration and maintenance kit has increased by approx. 1 billion. kr per year under the red-green government, of which SV was also part. The numbers' speech is pretty clear. Does SV mean that it is good environmental policy not to prioritize maintenance and renewal of the railway, as we saw under the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e733	We probably don't quite share the reality that the red-green government didn't spend a lot of money on the railroad, so I want to continue what we're presenting here today, and what we've been doing with the Center Party and the Labour Party. Then there may be something about the relationship between new investments – at a time when we've spent a lot of time initiating intercity solutions, etc. – and what we should have spent on maintenance, which might not have been quite right. But at least we are now going in to strengthen the maintenance, because it is – the day-to-day maintenance – that is important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e738	With a Right-Fremskritspart-regiering, there will be considerably more funding for the railway infrastructure, and we will make the train a more flexible means of transport for more people through more frequent departures around the big cities. In addition, we stop the red-green decay. SV has always spoken warmly about the railway, and it must be very bad for SV to see that with the Progress Party in government, more money is allocated to the railway than the SV was involved in a majority government. Why didn't SV do more for the railway the eight years they were in government? 1 billion. kr in red-green decay per year – did they not pass, or is the railway simply not one of the core or heart issues of SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e745	As I have just said in my post, the railway is one of our heart matters. In fact, we're very pleased that, while we were in government, we got an increase in the railway effort four times from what she was under the government that was before 2005. We're actually very proud of it. When you choose to represent the reality as if SV didn't bet on the railway, it's a reality we don't share.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e750	The President will carefully say that the speech should always be addressed to the President. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e756	Before I start on the thunderstorm itself, I will acknowledge to all the other parties in Stortinget that Norwegian transport policy, after all, is on a positive track. There is more focus on environmentally friendly solutions, and there are more commitments in finding climate-friendly solutions. And this budget, adopted this year, provides higher investments in public transport and rail. At least the maintenance allowance has been reduced. There will be double tracks on the Oslo-Ski route. There's going to be more new train equipment, etc. This is good, and in the long term it will provide a better and more forward-looking transport solution in Norway. But we don't know when these effects are going to come, and we don't know how big they are -- to the extent that they are going to have effects at all. For even after the budgetary negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the cooperation parties are increasing the appropriations to the road more than to the path of the budget for next year. The rail maintenance run is almost as large as last year. And although it's very good in terms of the planning of intercity in the budget, it's not planned to start a single new railway project in 2015. This is the responsibility of the government and the cooperation parties, but it also has the red-green ones, which promoted a national transport plan, which provides five times more roads than the track – measured in kilometres – during the first four-year period. The majority of the transport committee – all except one party – stresses in the comments on the 2015 budget that the reward scheme for municipalities must require a proven growth in the share of public transport, at the expense of passenger car traffic. That is a good and necessary goal. But it is not this principle that is followed in the budget of the government and the cooperation parties. In the national road budget, money is being spent, which is going to increase traffic on the roads, and which makes environmentally friendly collective travel, at best, become an addition to even more passenger cars. If, in practice, the objective of taking the growth of passenger transport around the major cities with public transport, bicycles and corridors, which lies in both the climate agreement and the national transport plan, we cannot build new motorways into cities. How all these new cars will at all be accommodated in cities, if the urban areas in Norway are to be safer for the elderly and children at the same time, have a better living environment and have room for walking, cyclists, buses and trams, I guess I don't understand. We know that the greenhouse gas emissions from transport have increased by 10 pst. only since 2000. This is due to the intrusive aversion of the large majority to mandatory climate planning in transport and, to the extent that all other sectors. In addition, environmental problems related to air quality and degradation of food and nature arise as a result of road development. Transport policy is still not linked to climate and environmental policies, and it continues to challenge health policy objectives of moving people more and getting less dirty air to breathe in. In the climate agreement, the Stortinget has decided that collective and bicycles should be given increased priority over the transport budget. In the Environment Party, the Greens' alternative budget, we show that it is possible to budget for the ambitions set by the Stortinget, and more than that. We've proposed a total of six billion. kr more for green transport, of which SEK 1.9 billion. kr is for maintenance and investment in the railway. We also cover the delays in maintenance on the railway, and we prioritise electrification of diesel-powered lines. We collect the money by prioritizing new major road projects and expanding air traffic. We do this in accordance with the climate agreement, while maintaining the means of maintenance, safety, scaffolding and completion of roads where the spade is already in the ground. We also propose 500 million for the road network. kr annually, the period for the development of charging stations for electric cars, so that there will be as many fast charging stations as there are petrol stations today, and so that electric cars become a real alternative throughout the country. All the games on Stortinget are happy to add millions to your bike. We're adding a billion dollars to make bicycle a real solution, and we're taking away the VAT on electric bicycles. The figures in the Environment Party The Greens' budget for transport are large and ambitious, but these are the figures we need to see if transport development is going to become something more than motorways next to the new railways. It is this that is change and a green shift, and we hope that the development towards this kind of priorities will also characterise the budgets of other parties in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e777	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e780	The representative Rasmus Hansson and the Greens have a great, good and sincere commitment to the climate and to the environment, but I also see that in their draft budget you are really moving on to the big money. I really respect both the commitment and the ambitions, but is there realism in this, i.e. taking as much as one do from the road and putting everything into the railways and other forms of transport that promote the environment and the climate? So I could imagine that the representative Hansson elaborated on what is actually realism in their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e785	I thank you for a good question from the representative Sund. Realism has to be defined in this room as doing what the Big One says they'll do. And what the Storting says they're going to do is we're going to have a transport development that is consistent with the climate agreement and the climate challenges and with the other environmental and health challenges that we have here in this country. Then we cannot continue a transport planning that will increase greenhouse gas emissions and increase the motorway supply to the major cities. In fact, we have to do re-priorities, and so the re-priorities are quite possible: it is possible to say no, we should not have more motorways – instead, we should have the railways, the collective solutions and the tunnels through Oslo that we all know are needed, and for which there is a much greater need. It is a matter of priority, but that means that the established political planning in the debate, including in the Labour Party, is enough to allow the priorities to be set.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e792	One of the things we see is a challenge — in addition to many of the good points raised by the representative — is that we are getting an increase in road freight traffic, for estimates are continuing to increase in the future. If you want to be able to turn more of the freight traffic onto the track and the sea, you have to put in place a number of measures to solve it. Will the representative Rasmus Hansson and the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e797	So absolute! The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has just examined the review of the work of the National Audit Office on getting goods from road to sea – a sad story, because this does not happen; it is the opposite that happens. And the reason why this does not happen is that there is no operational objective in the Ministry of Transport — and in what was the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast — to carry out this transfer. So the Green Party would very much like to cooperate with the Centre Party, and with all the other parties, to make it a commitment, overall and operational goal for the Minister of Transport to implement the transition of goods from road to sea and rail, in measurable ways and with measurable effects. This is when, when we get such goals in place, it is possible to put a Minister of Transport on the wall because he has not delivered it, and that is when we are going to implement those measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e804	I'm glad we're more environmental parties on Stortinget, and we have the same ambitions too much. I'm e.g. Very happy about that billion you're betting on bike. We've put a half billion into this ourselves, and I think that's something we have to prioritise more in the years that are coming. I also see you prioritizing charging stations for electric cars, and we have put in money for both plug-in hybrid cars and hybrid cars that emit less than 105 grams of CO2 per km etc. I think that when the Environmental Party of Greens spends money on charging stations, etc., it is also a recognition that people want to use a car, and that you have to organize it. So I think at the same time that if you're going to use a car, you have to have a road, and then you also have to maintain the road – or does the Green Party and the representative Rasmus Hansson think that bad roads are good environmental policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e816	The Greens do not believe that bad roads are good environmental policies, but the Greens will remind the Greens that we have roads in Norway and that the mantra that Norwegian roads are worse than Albanian roads is, to put it mildly, excessive. The point is that if we are to get a social and transport development that goes in a more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly direction, all of us agree that we need not to give even more priority to the road, but more to the collective and more to the bike. And so you don't do that by building big, new highways into the big cities. I suspect that the Left deeply in its green heart also means, and I hope that the Left will work very hard to get more impact on it in next year's budget than they have in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e826	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e829	I would first like to thank the cooperation parties in Stortinget very much for having a good budget for transport – yes, a good overall state budget. Here it is very good, which will lead to drivers, train travelers, public travellers, air passengers and those travelling by sea, experiencing a difference in who is in government, and who is the majority. There have been good moves of money. Now a reduced maintenance kit run on both road and rail already in 2015. With the infrastructure fund, as proposed by the government, the decline in rail maturity would come in 2016. Now we're accelerating it, and that's good. What has underpinned the government's thinking in the field of transport policy is that we should build society. We need to build good housing and work regions. We need to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. It's about creating an infrastructure that makes us safe travel, reducing travel time and focusing on everyday travel. If we can cut the trip that people travel 200–250 times a year, with 5–10–15 minutes, it's much more important than doing something about the trip that people take once or twice a year. We need to do something about freight transport – reduce travel time and reduce costs – so that business becomes more competitive. Then we want more goods to go by sea and by rail. Many, many years of increasing maturity have resulted in rail not being considered reliable enough. We're now starting to decrease that maturity. This is the first step towards restoring rail competitiveness. We need seamless transitions between planes, ships, trains, buses, cars, bicycles and corridors in freight and commuting. Maintaining what we have must be important. We're going to build new ones where we can reduce travel time, increase road safety or increase capacity. To take maintenance first: we have to take care of what we have. The maintenance has been neglected for many years. The red-green decay cannot be hidden. It has affected freight transport, and it has increased road transport costs – for the drivers and for the transport owners. Maintenance is increasing sharply in 2015. The slowdown will be reduced for the first time in many decades, both on the road and on the rail. To illustrate: the growth of railway maintenance in the two budgets adopted under the current government has been 74 pst. In comparison, the growth in railway maintenance was in the last two red-green budgets before the government shift of 2 pst. It's obviously a change of pace. Road maintenance has increased by 54 pst. after the government change. In the last two budgets before the government change, it increased by 9 pst. I think most people outside this hall see clearly that a growth of 74 pst. is much larger than a growth of 2 pst. People want to mark the government shift. Investment also sees strong growth. All projects in the Vegvesen action package are initiated, unlike the previous NTP, where 22 projects were delayed. It's not enough to say that there were plans in the NTP for things to happen, one actually has to implement it. Then it's about the ability to act, and we see that here. In the case of railway, it's full. All the projects to be continued are given the means to have rational progress, so that we can implement them as soon as possible. I get worried when I see that representatives from the Workers' Party, on the other hand, will delay the Follobane project by four years – and 8 billion. kr. They are going to rematch something that they themselves said no to in 2010. We must avoid rematching with such costs and consequences. In addition, it is important that we plan new projects. In the case of rail, we're increasing the appropriations up to 741 million. kr, just to get more construction drawings in place to be able to build more and faster in the future. In the case of roads, we double the allocation, up to 1.2 to 1.3 billion. kr, for the same reason. Good progress on projects under way and new planning projects is important. We do the same with regard to the fairway for shipping. It was mentioned by a representative that shipping has been forgotten in this budget. That's not the case. The growth in the budget of the Coastal Works is 15 p.m.–16 p.m. We are accelerating the planning of fairways that were not to be launched until the next six-year NTP. So let's do that. Also in aviation, there is considerable investment going on — at the Gardermoen, in Flesland and a number of other places. Something happens in all modes of transport. We're doing something about public transport. It shall be attractive to travel collectively. We're not going to force the drivers into buses against their will because we're taking away parking spaces. We're going to get the drivers to want to travel collectively, because then they get free time to work, to have it socially on social media, or to read a good book. Then we'll have to get more train departures. We have to get more predictability and more bus departures. That's why we're granting money, which almost doubles the number of flights on the Sørlandsbanen. We're going to extend the pendulum on the Thrønderban. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we get an increase in the number of departures on the Salt Pendulum, and we get more departures in the Oslo area. The NSB will be able to purchase twice as many train sets as planned to upgrade its stable. In public transport, we are continuing the urban environment agreements. Not only do we continue them, but today we have signed an urban environment agreement with the city of Busker. 308 million. We commit ourselves to, and it meets with cheers in the Drammens area. The reward system is important, and we contribute. In the case of Fornebubanen: for the first time ever, a state-owned project receives state funds on the planning side. We promise to contribute 50 pst. into the investment in the four major cities, which was not included in the national transport plan of the previous government, but which we implement in addition. We are also working on access parking, express buses, national timetables and ITS solutions to make public transport more attractive, and to ensure that people know what opportunities exist in public transport. There's a lot going on here, and much more will happen in the future. In the field of bicycles, it is important to facilitate the desire of more people to ride bicycles. Then it's about making good tracks, that it feels safe and easy to get to work and to school on bicycles. We're increasing by 30 pst next year. compared to this year. In addition, we are embarking on work to reduce the cost of building bicycle paths. In the previous NTP, only 72 psts were implemented. of the bicycle road projects as self-appointed. Then there's something wrong in the system. A narrator of one having overfilled the NTP, but one does not complete in the number of kilometres. One grants money, the money is spent, but the results are missing. And who boasts that they're wasting money, when they don't get what they've actually paid for? In the area of race, we are in front of the national transport plan for national roads. We have granted more than what the previous government thought was necessary. In the case of county roads, we have granted more money than the counties are able to spend. It is very good that many people are engaged and want to give more money for this, but then we also have to make sure that the counties actually spend the money. The interest-reimbursement scheme, proposed by the red-greens, is continued by this government and strengthened to 3 billion. in this budget, precisely in order for more counties to be able to advance appropriations by borrowing money free of charge, knowing that they will receive appropriations for racial protection in the coming years. The same applies to broadband. We're going to bet on broadband, but we have to bring down costs. The industry invests in the year 8 billion. kr. It's huge with capital, enormous with good projects. Then the debate in this room will be about who can grant the last 10 million. kr extra in subsidies. It's not this that's the industry's problem. If the industry can cut costs by 1 pst, they'll save 80 million. kr. I'd rather cut costs than try to grant more in subsidies, when the industry says that here it's huge to save on better regulation. Then we start there, and then we come up with subsidy schemes for those areas where cheaper development costs are not good enough. With regard to the truck industry, we have quadrupled the number of checks. It shall be further strengthened in the coming year. In addition, we have stricter rules for vehicles and more stringent responses if one does not comply with the rules. That means we can take out more unprofessional actors. We can get a more normal cost level in the truck industry again, and it will also enhance the competitiveness of rail and shipping. During shipping, it is possible to take much more cargo. A few days ago in this room we had a discussion about the Riksrevision, which more or less slaughtered the results of red-green shipping policy over several years. The potential is much greater than what one got triggered. We're going to have that potential triggered. That is why it is a strong commitment to the Coastal Plant. We're starting yard work. We do something about the unloading system, etc., in order to reduce the costs of port operations and shipping. We have many reforms in progress that are being granted money. Both for road companies, for port strategy and for others, money is allocated to make progress in the work. The infrastructure fund, which is involved in ensuring that the maintenance allowance is reduced, that the loss is eliminated, is now up to 70 billion. kr. National transport plan is a good way to measure success. We want more than what the previous government wanted in the national transport plan. That's why we're also $7 billion. kr at the front of the planes. We now grant so that we have almost reached 50 pst. of the target already after two years. Given that there will be budget growth in the next few years, we are well prepared to overcomply with the plan, not just in dollars, but in the number of projects. And that's the projects people want to notice, not just how much money they spend.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e878	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e882	After some years of reorganization of rail freight traffic, the arrows pointed upwards. Freight traffic on the track increased significantly for several years, but in recent years it has stagnated and, in fact, declined somewhat. The situation is described in the State budget, but there are few offensive measures to get more goods on the road. This issue was also not particularly affected in the Minister’s posts at the moment. I understand that it is limited what a number of people can find in a ten-minute post, so I am asking the Minister for Transport: With the transport budget that Stortinget decides later today, the Minister for Transport can promise that rail freight traffic has increased from today's level when we meet again for the budget debate about approx. a year in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e887	As described in my post, we do a lot of things that will improve the situation for the railway, and strengthen the freight transport. What we meet when we talk to the logistics industry is that because there are too many cancelled departures on the railway and too many delays, you dare not use the railway as a means of transport. Then there is a chosen truck. It is just about a lack of maintenance – an increased downturn on rail over many years. You may not maintain a house or a car for some years without having serious consequences, but at last things start to rust, at last things start to decay so much that things stop. That's what we've experienced on the railway, and the railway system itself is very aware of. They have not had enough money to maintain time enough for overhead lines to go healthy, for other things to go healthy. That's exactly why we've focused on increasing the appropriations for maintenance, so in 2015, for the first time in a long time, we're reducing the downturn on the railway, instead of seeing it still increasing, as it did under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e892	I understand that it was a too difficult question for the Minister of Transport. There was no answer at all, so I asked questions about something else. In the Ministry of Transport's budget proposal, there is a separate chapter on equality in the transport sector. I was not aware that this is such a central bet area for the government, but I think it is very good. My question is: can the Minister for Transport say a little about what measures will be taken in 2015 to achieve more equality in the transport sector in general, and in the Ministry of Transport in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e899	I can say that when we're out recruiting people to the department, there's something we're doing on a professional basis. We have a female ministerial council, there are many of the leadership positions occupied by women, so gender is not a bad thing for women. We're open to anyone who wants to search being evaluated based on what they can. The Department Council is a woman, many of the other leaders are women, so that you are not discriminated against because of your gender. But I want to go back to what was raised in the previous question, because it was a very clear answer to what the Ministry of Transport is solving of challenges, namely the infrastructure. It's about building a better infrastructure so that the train arrives in time. That's what makes more people want to choose the railway, and we're now making sure that more carriers will trust the railway again and choose it as the preferred means of travel. We see that the railway is competitive at long distances, and there will be a better competitive position in the year to come, because we are betting on maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e906	I am very pleased that the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left have achieved a historic promise with the budgetary position that has been presented today, along with the new steps for the reorganisation of the road and rail development that has been announced. Also for maritime transport, on which the Council of State was involved, there are leads to a conversion, where a greater proportion of freight traffic can be moved from road to sea and rail. Among other things, the government has announced a new port strategy to lead to new measures that can contribute to the achievement of our climate policy objectives in this area. We are aware that there are several factors that contribute to the loss of goods on the keel compared to goods on the road. Higher costs of sea freight are one contributing cause, and then we believe that the development of efficient intermodal hubs with good transhipment capability could contribute to the opposite. What measures does the Council of State see as the most central to succeeding in getting more goods on the keel?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e913	This is a very important topic, so I'm glad it's being addressed. So we've seen a trend in the last few years when delivery predictability has fallen. The infrastructure has simply become too poor for one to be proud that rail and shipping are delivering what they are going to do. When one combines it with price, one sees that unfortunately one has lost, especially for the benefit of non-resident car combinations. It's not a development I think is good, and that's why we've done a lot with it. It is both about imposing stricter requirements on foreign vehicle combinations – those under-market competitors – and about reducing costs in port operations, which is why the national port strategy is important. Then we see that there has been work on how you can streamline the processes in the ports, it's also important. We also need to look at the charging system. How can you ensure that the fees go down for shipping so that they come out better competitively? Today, they have to take all the costs themselves, while rail and lorries receive a lot of funding either by the State or by others using the same infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e920	I want to go back to the E16 File Mountain, as it became a cut in the bargain. What the project management says is that the project is fully on track, it is not delayed, nor does it have too fast progress. We are all concerned that it should be implemented as quickly and effectively as possible, so my question to the Minister for Transport is: can the Minister guarantee that progress will not be delayed by the cut that is now proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e925	I am concerned that we will complete the project within the plans that are, and preferably before. That's why we did it, for example. on the E18 in Westfold, granted a little extra money just for it to be finished before the public holiday of the year that was, instead of these days, because it is about road safety. In the case of E16 Filefjell – one project that does not receive a start-up grant in 2015 anyway – the main pillar of the allocation has been entered in 2016 and 2017. Everything suggests that by granting the money instead of extra in 2016 and 2017, you could have approximated the progress you should have. The 50 million. kr is a very small part of the total allocation. There is no doubt that this means that in 2016 and 2017, you have to get hold of something slightly higher than you would otherwise have, because you have to take back what you are not getting done late in the fall of 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e932	The battery ferry Ampere will be installed on 1 January on the heavily loaded ferry section Lavik – Oppedal on E39 over Sognefjorden, the main road between Bergen and Sogn and Fjordane. The journey will be the world's first zero-emission journey in its kind. It's approx. 20 meters wide, approx. 80 metres long and accommodates 120 passenger cars and 350 passengers. In the budget agreement we agree on: «The Government is asked to ensure that all upcoming ferry offers have zero-emission technology and low-emission technology requirements when the technology so requires.» Does the Minister for Transport agree with the Left that battery ferries and other zero-emission ferries now have to be regarded as available technology, if any of the tenderers offer this? And how will the Minister of Transport actually follow up this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e944	Good environmental policy and good climate policy are about finding practical solutions that allow us to solve the challenges we face, but with less energy use or less emissions than one would have had with other solutions. I think it's really exciting, what happens to elves. I hope we can do this much more, much more often. At the same time, this is also a pilot ferry. That means, I think, that it makes sense that we also have experience with what works, and what doesn't work, before one says that this should be a standard requirement everywhere. But one must clearly try to make it possible on the routes where appropriate. The experience here is hopefully going to be good, and that means we can roll it out faster. It takes time to build these ferns. So – again – a little depending on where we have said that we want to increase the capacity of existing ferry routes, one will have to see if it will be practical, compared to having a contract that goes, as we have done now on the Molde route. So you have to look at the individual project – but positive, very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e953	First, I have to pray so humbly for forgiveness because this representative forgot instead and did not talk through the president. As a 16th-year-old Oslo citizen, I, like most people in Oslo, have another place, e.g. small municipalities in the West. When I go to her mother's house, I would like to take the train from Oslo to Arna in Hordaland, so I come to the situation that there is a bus once a day or a maximum of five times a day. What is the government's main effort to maintain and strengthen public transport in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e961	Our main effort is to make sure that county councils have good finances. It is those who are responsible for public transport in their states, so we must also be able to trust that they are able to set up good collective solutions that embrace the people who live there. I have grown up in a gas station myself, and my father operated a bus company in the 1990s in Sirdal, which is also a district. The counties have to make sure that they are flexible about what kind of travel offers they have, one must not always demand, for example. buses with a capacity of 50 passengers when on average one has four travellers on one route. By having more flexibility in what kind of material a requirement is, it is possible to cut a lot of costs, which means that one gets more routes in one area. It costs a lot more to have a big bus going on than to have, for example. two minibuses walking. It'll be my best tip to areas where one wants to improve public transport locally. But again, the decisions here also happen locally in the states.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e966	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e969	The draft budget we have to deal with today is the first one that the Right Party and the Progress Party themselves have created from the bottom of. Last year there was the red-green government's document on which the draft budget was based, and it was not the big changes presented by the new government. I would have believed that the government now appeared, to an extent would be more in line with the ambitions of the Right and the Advance Party flagged in the transport sector before they formed government. In Right's alternative transport plan for the current period, the party promised 2 billion. kr more annually than the frame of the adopted NTP, and the Progress Party promised a total of 45.5 billion. kr annually for transport in its alternative transport plan. Nevertheless, the government party goes high on the path of public vocabulary, including here in the hall, talking about overfilling the NTP and exploring measures. For me, this is more rhetorical than politics, because at a superior level, the current government is essentially following up the agreed national transport plan, which was presented by the Stoltenberg II government. This way, I have to say that I'm pretty satisfied with the scope. The fact that previous promises from government parties in the sphere of transport are not followed up, it may be a problem for others. The amount of the communication effort is one thing, the alignment may be something else. Here I am really disappointed that the draft budget does not adequately address climate change, which you are one of the greatest challenges of our time. The transport sector accounts for about one third of the total emissions in the country, and in our big cities, transport accounts for about half of the emissions of climate change. In addition, several of the metropolitan areas are at times exposed to large and harmful local pollution from the transport sector. When the government's proposal contains cut of 55 million. for bicycle bets, do not have sufficient permissions for railway maintenance, do not allow enough funds for the reward scheme for better public transport, nor do all urban environmental agreements be implemented, then this is in some proposals that go contrary to the climate agreement. In the Labour Party's budget option, we increase railway maintenance by 400 million. kr and railway investments of 110 million. kr. Climate and collective action in the big cities increases by 1 billion. kr through the Urban Environment Agreements. In this, we also have 100 million. kr for bicycle measures and an increase of 30 million. NOK to the reward scheme for bicycles, so that with our scheme this will be a total of 40 million. kr. We have also put forward proposals that the government should present its own action plan for road-parking in the four largest urban regions, Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger, in order to improve the switch-over between car and public transport. It's now urgent to implement the big and necessary collective measures in the big cities, and when our bet is 1 billion. So the government's commitment to urban environmental agreements is only 70 million. kr in 2015. The Labour Party wants to implement a national lift for the development and operation of public transport in and around the big cities, while at the same time reducing impurity of car traffic and facilitating health care and walking. This State billion of urban environment measures for 2015 is only the start of entirely needed investments for collective, bicycle and gangster cities. The increase in population, the need for needs and the local pollution associated with increased health damage to poor air quality is such that if we do not implement the necessary measures, urban development will stop while also increasing climate change. That's why we in the Workers' Party believe that the state has to cover up to 70 pst. of this initiative — against the commitment of the municipalities and counties involved on their side to extensive housing and business development near the traseans and collective nodes. With our alternative budget, the Labour Party believes that we have a credible transport policy, and that we are actually following up our promises in the NTP. Worse is the government party, which is high on the path of public change, but which does not follow its own rhetoric and translate it into practical politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e992	In its draft budget for 2015, the government continues and strengthens its commitment to culture. The initiative comes in all areas and shows that we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left here at Stortinget, are arming Norway for the future. As a starting point, we have a National Transport Plan for 2014-2023, which was adopted in spring 2013. Already after a year in government, we are overfilling it in several areas. Compared to the action plan for the first four years, we are ahead of the form compared to the corresponding period in previous action plans. As the Right Railway Policy Spokesman, it's nice to be able to see that this applies to the railway, where we're in total at 53.4 pst. by NTP after two years. If we look at investment items 30 and 31, we're at 56.8 pst. by NTP. The goal of the railway operation is two-sided. On the one hand, we must contribute to the growth of the number of working trips in and around large cities by means of collective transport. On the other hand, we must transport goods over medium and long distances on the road. This has proved to be partly conflicting interests. In order to take passenger transport first: strong population growth — especially in cities — significantly increases the need for public transport. In addition, a more attractive offer is provided so that more people want to travel collectively. This means that the growth in the number of collective journeys is increasing more than the population growth would suggest. One of the main handles is increased frequency. In Oslo this is called ‘rolling pavement’. That means six to ten departures per hour for bus, tram and T-Bahn. When NSB provides for more frequent take-offs into and out of the major cities, it is important to make the train offer more attractive so that cities are not choked by cars and buses. We also note that there is now full progress on the railway projects under construction, while increased planning resources allow for even greater investment later on. I would also like to show that the government is facilitating more people to choose to use trains around the big cities by increasing the number of flights, among others. on the east, on the Trønderbanen and Sørlandsbanen, and that this could also release capacity on the roads to the pleasure of those who depend on the car in their working day. It is clear that the change in government has changed pace in the transport sector, and I am pleased that the government has used the first year well by facilitating continued growth and increased efficiency across the sector. The strong growth and increase in passenger traffic rates are a challenge for freight trains. Passenger trains have been given priority and freight trains have to wait – often for a long time – to move forward. The Right Party and the Advance Party of Stortinget have held several meetings with key players – carriers and customers – and have received clear feedback that can be summarised as follows: Customers are most concerned about whether the goods arrive at the agreed time. Carriers therefore need: The offer must operate 24 hours a day freight trains must also be released on the track during the day when freight terminals have to be upgraded, and it is necessary to facilitate competition at the terminals of the Alnabru freight terminal, which is the hub of freight transport, needs to be expanded and modernised – now. It is good to note that the government has addressed these issues. Common to both freight and passenger transport is the need for capacity and regularity. Some important grips were made at the end of the period of the red-green government with, among other things. The Oslo Tunnel, but we're far from the finish line. Maintenance seat drivage of 17.7 billion. kr must be taken again. This has increased by about 1 billion. kr per year from 2005, and one can really be amazed that the red-greens in the government parked themselves on a siding on these questions for eight years. So despite the fact that they had historical opportunities to do something about it, the maintenance run was doubled. The state budget for 2015 signals that we can now get on the offensive here as well. Now the trend is reversed by reducing the maintenance run by 1.1 pst. in 2015. But there is a lot that needs to be taken again, and more can be added. The climate impacts of floods and outbursts have made the need for maintenance and preventive reinforcements of train lines more urgent and visible to all. The need for contingency plans, including for freight transport, is identified as an important emergency by industry actors. Train bus does not work for freight. From 2008 onwards, the railway has lost in competition with the car. This is not just a matter of railway policy. The car often beats the train on time and price. Wagons are getting bigger and getting an increasingly large number of foreign operators. In addition, road standards have also improved. If we're going to reverse this trend, we're going to have to apply the tools we have. And the feedback we have received from the actors shows that it is possible – if we take new grips. We still have a lot of goods on some sections of the track. This concerns Bergensbanen, Dovrebanen and Arctic Rail Express through Sweden to North Norway, but on one of the main transport corridors for cross-border goods, Oslo – Gothenburg, we are now down in a share of 7 pst. on track. Continuity is important — if the rail cannot provide transport services due to frequent incidents on the track, the railway loses in competition with the car. The lack of priority issue for freight trains on a lack of capacity network has been addressed in the Government Platform. Here it says that you have to «facilitate the prioritisation of freight trains and long-distance trains on the network between 18:00 and 05:00». This may be an important immediate measure. For several years we have witnessed an unforeseeable commitment to maintenance, where the frames have risen one year and down the next. The government's new infrastructure fund reduces this unforeseeableness. The handles show a new political will to move both people and goods onto the track. In the Government Platform, the Right Party and the Advance Party have argued that a larger part of the oil fund should be invested in infrastructure and a separate fund of a total of 100 billion. kr shall be established. That fund is from 2015 to 70 billion. kr and contributes to the procurement of the infrastructure maintenance seat drivage in 2015 by 871 million. NOK 305 million. kr on the railway. A central point of the Government Declaration is the implementation of a major reform of the railway sector, reorganising the railway system and the NSB to achieve an appropriate governance structure, a commercial organisation and clear objectives. Already during the Bondevik II government, a reform work was started, but it was stopped by the Stoltenberg II government. However, it was not long after the government change last year that the actors themselves resumed the thread from 2005. I want to commend both the NSB, the Railway Agency and the Fly train for taking an active role in this work – and look forward to the further process. The aim of the transport effort is to build regions closer together and create competitive housing and labour regions. The intercity sections of the East are an example of this. Here, the eight Eastern states have joined forces on a common initiative. Rail is an important instrument here to distribute the strong growth in the metropolitan region. By reducing travel time, the housing and labour market will increase, and the pressure on Oslo and Akershus is expected to decrease somewhat. Similarly, the railway could have a role around Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim. With the large investments in capacity-enhancing infrastructure such as a railway, urban development is expected to build up under a node development. If we're going to overcomply with NTP, we're going to have to build more than what is foreseen in the plan proposal. This requires both that we do something with the planning processes, and that we make funds available. The 2015 budget includes 741 million. kr for railway planning. This is necessary to maintain the pace of the development of the intercity bet and of the other routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1057	It's a pleasure for me that the Progress Party, together with the Right and the Cooperation Parties Christian People's Party and the Left, is now presenting a very good budget for transport, not to say the best over time. The railway is a government's bet area. This year's budget shows that we're at a crossroads. From 2005 to 2013, the red-green decay on the rail increased by 1 billion. kr per year. The right-hand party government writes history, for this year it is the first transport budget that reduces the maintenance run – not only on track but also on the road. It is no use, as the red-greens do, to boast that an increased railway budget when the decay on the track nevertheless increased significantly under the previous red-green, government. We know that there is a strong link between the appropriations for operation and maintenance and the operational stability of train traffic. When the track is better maintained, there will be fewer errors and the train will arrive at its destination without the delays with which we are used. With the commitment to maintenance that the government is now implementing, this will benefit rail customers. And with customers, I mean both passenger and freight traffic. So – in 2015 – we're reducing the red-green decay. By using railway near the cities, we want to turn as much of the travel business as possible into public transport. The new timetable for the NSB in the eastern region, which enters into force on 15 December, shows that we are serious. With this, you can just throw the timetable, because with a few minutes between the train departures in the rush hour, the old quote ‘There is always a train running’ comes into place. Appropriations for passenger transport will include, inter alia: also leads to the following: the southern lane from Stavanger to Oslo, in which I am especially pleased because my grandfather was with it and built it, gets an approximate totimer frequency. There will be an extension of localogens on the Tronderbahn to Melhus, such as: improves the life of commuters. The salt pendulum is given increased capacity and the Bratsberg track is still being operated by train. We also see that goods by rail have been considerably reduced since the best year, the top year 2008. I think it comes from the red-green decay that we see on the railway. With the railway's red-green decay, competition from car transport has increased. In addition, track priorities or competition for the track on passenger services could also play a major role. It is important that the goods are presented when they are intended, in particular in the case of foodstuffs. Then a well upgraded railway is needed. So maintenance is alpha and omega, and it's good that today's government is doing something about this, so we can turn the trend and get more goods across from road to path. The red-green maturities have been built up over several years, but with the government's draft budget plus additional appropriations under the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left will be reduced for the first time in the railway sector for many years. This is good news, and everyone who's happy in the railroad should be happy. I would like to repeat my claim from my reply to SV: It must be very bad for SV to see that with the Progress Party in the government, more money is spent on the railway than they ever got into a majority government – both on investment and maintenance. So to something else: lately, there have been other taxi offers to the country, called Haxi and Uber. The government is fundamentally in favour of innovations, including in the taxi market, but they must always be related to current regulation. Taxis are part of public transport but are subject to the Professional Transport Act in order to operate passenger transport services in return for payment. I.e. if a passenger car is used, one must either have taxi licenses or be allowed to carry a company car. Of course, for safety reasons, the driver is required, in addition to driving licences, to have a driving licence issued by the police. The driving licence is granted on the basis of the assessment of good repute and the health certificate submitted and local driver may also be required to have a familiar test. If someone violates the provisions of the Professional Transport Act, they may be punished by fines. And so can those who contribute to it. So until a regulation has been amended, everyone who transports people has to deal with the legislation in force. Then we'll see if the law changes in the future, but the security of the customers will always come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1087	There is a lot of good in the transport budget for next year. We disagree on a part, but we certainly agree on a very much. In most areas of next year’s budget, there is a continuation, or perhaps a follow-up, of the Storting’s adopted national transport plan, although the appropriations are actually slightly below what has been agreed on in the transport plan. With the 2015 budget we are two years in the first four-year period in the transport plan, but the appropriations are actually less than 50 pst. halfway through the period, 48,7 pst. it is stated in the budget proposal. It will increase slightly when the department is fine-tuned to it after the budgetary agreement, but it will still be less than half. It might be interesting to hear if the Minister of Transport and the Government are satisfied with the level of transport investment in 2014 and 2015, which we are now dealing with. Will the level in adopted national transport plan be followed? Or is it going to be a change of pace and massive bet on traffic in the last two years of the planning period, as promised in the election campaign last year? I'm almost a little proud that everyone talks about the red-green national transport plan. That had to be a very good document. I understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party are talking about it, and not about their own national transport plan. But with the budget for year two out of four in the first planning period, we have to measure the government at its own transport level and its own promises, and then it is really going to falter. The government talks about the appropriations in the 2015 budget compared to previous years, and then of course there will be an increase, a good increase – it should be lacking only, and it is fully in line with the adopted national transport plan. But one has to measure the current government against what they promised themselves in the treatment of the national transport plan last year. Of course they won't. The future growth of traffic in metropolitan areas must be taken by collective means of transport. The metropolitan areas are facing large investments in public transport infrastructure, even so large that local and county municipalities do not alone power these investments. Therefore, the State must contribute, and, in the view of the Workers' Party, the State must contribute up to 70 pst. of investments in large projects. That's why the Workers' Party wants to spend 1 billion. more to climate and collective action in the metropolitan areas of next year's budget, and in addition to just over 500 million. kr more in railway investments. Current projects in the metropolitan areas where the state should contribute to investment are Fornebubanen, Akershu University Hospital, Aarhus, and on to Lillestrøm and Kjeller, hereinafter referred to as the Rome Railway, I hope, the urban railway in Bergen, the bus road project in Stavanger, the new T-Bahn tunnel through Oslo inner city, cross-connection in Groruddalen and the superbus project in Trondheim. This is absolutely crucial if we are to succeed in climate, collective and urban policy. Intercity bet takes a lot of the railway investment in the years to come. It is therefore very gratifying that at Follobanen the works are in full swing. And let's remind each other that the goal The Great Council has set is that double tracks will be completed to Hamar, Fredrikstad and Tønsberg in 2024, and to Lillehammer, Halden and Ski in 2030. It should not be anything less offensive. It's also a pleasure what's now happening to the Ringerix Railway, and that the Ringerix Railway is going to be the fourth of the intercity sections. Let me also say that it's very joyful what happens to a new tunnel through Ulriken. The next major project at Bergensbanen must be Voss-Arna. There are also great potentials on the Railway and the Trunder Railway, so that further bets are needed. I would also like to say that the Kongswingerbahn and Gjøvikbanen are two important sections of the East which, with relatively limited investment, can take considerably more traffic than today, both passenger and freight transport. Railways are future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1106	The appropriations for the maintenance and renewal of our roads have increased significantly with the Right and Advance Party in government, and this results. In 2015, the decay on the highways will finally stop, and we will start the job of reducing the aftermath. It's historic, since it's the first time in decades that it happens. What surprises me is why the red-green government, which had a majority in the UK, did not have the ability to prioritise enough funds for the maintenance of the road network. For us, it is important to reduce the maturity, and we will continue to prioritise maintenance and renewal high in the future budgets. Efficient road planning and construction is about more than just money. Therefore, we are well in the process of establishing a separate road company that will be operational during 2015. The carrier will have a clear funding and therefore the company can plan longer distances more fully. It also means that the uncertainty of annual budgeting is no longer present and that projects will be launched when they are planned. Public-private cooperation, OPS, is another tool that has been shown to deliver good results by the faster and at a predictable cost and risk to the public. An example of this is the project that was carried out between Kristiansand and Grimstad. The contractor went on a click, and the project got a serious cost excess. I am not particularly happy that the contractor does not make money – on the contrary. But it shows the security we have in an OPS project so that the public cost does not exceed what we believe in advance. It has a great value, because that means that overruns do not shift or push out other projects that should start. Public-private cooperation puts investment and operation and maintenance in context. It provides smart and cost-effective solutions in a lifetime perspective. There are many good examples of both small and large improvements. In the Trondelags-OPS, for example, the contractor's cost of installing LED lights in the tunnels, because it was seen to provide better lighting, and it saved operating costs in the long term. The 2015 budget has taken the initiative to establish three OPS projects. It's a good start, but we're going to do a lot more. Therefore, we need to put in place a framework and strategy for the use of OPS that can provide predictability for the industry. In this way, these projects can become more interesting for both Norwegian and foreign actors, and we can achieve good and healthy competition, increased efficiency and lower costs over time. It is not acceptable that it should take 10 years on average to plan a road project. This is why the government is working specifically to reduce planning time. One of the things that takes the most time is the treatment of all the objections. The attempt by the State to coordinate all state objections has been shown to produce good results. The government therefore extends this scheme to twelve counties. State level is another instrument that is suitable for longer distances with many complex considerations to take care of, and where there may be different conflicts of interest. So far, the state plan has been used only five times earlier, and then it says a little bit that the government has already announced that they will use it on two new European road sections, to ensure rapid and effective planning. Conceptual selection studies, or KVUs, have been used to clarify complex trajectory choices and to plan longer distances. In many cases this is a good tool, which provides the necessary clarification and predictability in the further planning. A good example of this is the clarification of the concept and trasé selection on the E39. Where the red-green government had a decision-making refusal and had not made difficult choices, we have now cut through and decided – to a great deal of joy for both residents and businesses. In other cases, which may be less complicated, KVUs can contribute to increased planning time. The fact that we have cut 13 KVUs means that those projects, covering everything from urban solutions in Larvik to large parts of Rv.13 and E6 from Fauske to Alta, get at least two years shorter planning time. The government also made an important effort when it joined, which may not get so much attention. The coastal works and the management of the port and fairway were moved to the Ministry of Transport. It's more than an administrative grip. It facilitates a completely different coordination between modes of transport. If we are to succeed in getting more goods across from road to sea, it is absolutely essential that there is a link between the infrastructure on land, the port structure and a competitive maritime transport. That is why we have come a long way in developing our own port strategy, a comprehensive freight analysis and a maritime strategy, and the Stortinget adopted a new Los law. All these are measures to contribute to a more competitive maritime transport, lower charges, more efficient ports and more environmentally friendly transport of goods. With a new government and a new growth majority, we can state that we have had a change of pace in Norwegian transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1134	During the first year of government life, the new population has spent a lot of resources on necessary work that will take us further in a new direction, as shown in this budget. The three main points of today's transport budget are: We're going to take care of what we have. We have to plan for the future. We are engaged in important and necessary reform work. I was a little inspired by the representative from SV, who pulled out Bob Dylan, for the ‘Slow train’ she referred to, is what is the consequence of SV’s lack of priority for maintenance. As a result, there will be many delays and ‘Slow train’. We could also use the title 'Not dark yet', but when we look at what opportunities they had, I'd rather use the title 'I three it all away'. The representative Sund is also trying on some Bob Dylan when she says "It ain't me, babe." She's trying to say that it's the bulk of the population that's to blame for the maintenance run, while saying that it's not the organization's fault. I agree with her that it is not the organisation’s fault – it is the fault of the Workers’ Party, the Center Party and the SV that it is such a big maintenance run. Maintenance has been strongly downgraded – or, as Bob Dylan would say, ‘Nothing was delivered’. After eight years of what can be called a red-green decay, it now becomes a change. So it took just one year to give us enough money to reduce the maintenance run on both the road and the railway. While the red-green in the last two years they crashed, granted 2 pst. for maintenance, we grant 74 pst. To say what Bob Dylan would say, ‘The times they are a-changen’. I mentioned three main areas that I believe are left in the budget. Maintenance is one, and the next is planning: the Progress Party has always been offensive in transport, and we're going to expand more infrastructure. We are committed to linking housing and working areas, increasing capacity and reducing travel time on several routes, which will be socio-economically profitable. To overfill the NTP, we need to plan more. We are dedicated to getting a more comprehensive planning, including, among other things. longer distances, better trajectory and last, but not least shorter planning time. In the Advance Party we are impatient to build more roads, but no matter how much we want, we have to have the construction drawings in place before the excavators can start. In the past year, however, we have accelerated 12 different road projects, while simplifying the planning period of 13 other road projects. In the 2015 budget, we double the appropriations for road planning, which obliges an offensive investment in road construction in the years to come. Within the railway, the red-green 46 million was granted. SEK for planning in 2012, while we grant SEK 750 million. kr for planning in 2015. This large increase shows that transport will be a high priority area in the coming years. When we combine it with the third point that I want to raise, we're well on track to overfill the NTP. The third point is reform work, and I have to say that I am pleased to see that among the representatives who voted against the proposals of the Progress Party on their own road development company in the previous enlargement period, we now find bourgeois representatives who are eager to put it in place, while we find red-green representatives who demand that it be put in place. That's good, because I'm concerned that we're not just going to discuss how many dollars we're going to give, but also how we're going to get more money back. According to the annual reports of the State Road Administration, 10.7 km of motorway was opened in 2006, while only 10.6 km of motorway was opened in 2013. One of the reasons for this is that in 2005 it cost 82,000 kroner per metre of highway we built, while in 2014 it costs 213 000 kroner per metre of motorway. This includes, inter alia: a result of long road construction in Norway, the need for contractors to deal with annual appropriations and the fact that most road sections are split into small sections. The new growth rate has understood that there are not only increased appropriations that need to be made if we want more. We have to think new when it comes to planning, when it comes to design, and when it comes to implementation. A road development company, with a more predictable, sufficient and long-term funding base, will make sure that we get more way for every krona that gets invested, and it will be a pleasure to sit in the car when this is in place, the roads have arrived and we can start humming on Bob Dylan’s song “On the road again”.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1172	I'm not going to follow up with Bob Dylan-quote – my music references usually originate in the trombone coat, and there's a strofe that reads like this: ‘Awake this morning with sand paper in your mouth [[...]] So I shouldn't keep going, because it doesn't fit from this pulpit. The transport budget that we are about to adopt today shows that there are some unique opportunities in this country. The comparison that the previous speakers and other representatives of the government parties have made with previous year’s appropriations is quite difficult to recognise. If it had been so that we could still have seen the alternative state budgets of the Progress Party – because they are, after what I have from information, removed from the website of the Progress Party – we would also have seen that it was not exactly the railway maintenance that was at the top of the priority list when you were in opposition. The fact that you've been very concerned about it in position, I think it's great, and it gives opportunities for the way forward. After almost a decade with the Labour Party in government, it is actually that you have good financial management, you have low unemployment, and you have unique opportunities – which I started with. Norway shall be a country with small differences and great opportunities also in terms of infrastructure and mobility. With the budget harvest we've set behind us, you can sometimes experience that you've been a little bit in the fairy tale of the emperor's new clothes, to imagine an overfilled national transport plan after just one year and a reinforced climate settlement is currently a view with, to put it mildly, a rather thick cloud cover. I now heard from the chairman of the committee, Hofstad Helleland, that they already believe that they have over-filled the NTP. The government parties promised 2 billion, respectively. kr more a year in its alternative national transport plan, while the Progress Party promised 45,5 billion. kr more annually. For the first time, the Labour Party has presented its overall alternative budget, where transport and climate have had a clear priority, while ensuring well-being. The red-green government introduced a shift in the pace of transport policy. We increased by 64 pst in our eight years in the government budget for transport. Bondevik II increased by 10 pst. It will be exciting to see what the phase says in 2017 about over-fulfilling the national transport plan and delivering on an enhanced climate settlement. And it might be tempting a little bit rhetorical to ask if that's the level at which you start, which gives you the power to act, or if that's the small addition you get in a new number of large-scale operations, which shows the power of action behind the implementation. There is a logical flaw in the intervention of the government parties in this debate today. When we had a hearing after the budget proposal, there was massive feedback that the maintenance pot for the railway was too low. So good comrades in the Left and Christian People's Party negotiate with the government, and you come back with an addition. That's very good. It's less than the Workers' Party would have added, but it's good. Then there's a logical flaw in the fact that you claim that the starting point you started with is the level you took from the previous government, and then you decorate a little on top with an increase. Then it's very interesting for me to know if it's the total level that makes you able to do more, or if it's the little sugar syrup on top that really is the rate change it's referred to. The working party suggests using 1 billion kr to urban environmental agreements in major cities, and up to 100 million. The kr of them shall go to the bike. The government's bicycle bet was too bad. First, they cut off the previous budget by 55 million. kr. Here the support parties had to renegotiate the reversal of the cut, and there will not be much increase in the bet to reverse the cut suggestions. In addition to being very climate-friendly, bicycles are a way of getting along with good public health, as several speakers have said in this debate. It's important for the future that we can keep healthy. But then it's like, in addition, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, Road renewal was cut by 245 million. kr – several comments have also been made. We need to take full action in the field of transport policy, and the national transport plan is based on such an integrated approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1199	We now have a budget that we can be proud of, with a huge effort in several areas of transport and communication. We'll equip Norway for the future. Among other things, the expiration of the national road network has been halted, and the aftermath is obtained for the first time in several decades. The maturity of the network will be halted, including for the first time in more than 10 years. In addition, new solutions will be put in place to achieve the ambition of getting more money. Simplification measures for road construction have been implemented and in 2015 it will be opened for three different projects to be planned and implemented as a OPS project. It has also signaled a reorganization and streamlining of the financing and collection system that we have for road construction here in Norway – our tolling system. It's important that there's a good basis for decision here, and that the right grips are taken, so that we can ensure that a maximum amount of their money goes to improve the accessibility and construction of roads. We are facing a number of challenges in the transport sector. We need more healing, and we need to use all the good tools. In some areas, we have great faith that technology could actually have good solutions, both in the short term and in the long term. However, it needs to be made possible for it to be used, and in Norway we are at the forefront of research and education when it comes to intelligent transport systems. But the incentive for this to be used has our flawed ones. We now have a government that wants to facilitate increased use of ITS in order to achieve our overarching objectives of reducing climate change and increasing visibility. But better coordination, as well as the standardisation and development of laws and regulations, is very important in order to make it possible to take out the enormous benefits that ITS can give us in practice. So I want to focus on what's going to lay the foundation for us to make use of future technology – that's when it comes to digital infrastructure. Digital infrastructure is essential for good communication and growth throughout the country. I'm glad that this area has been developed as a bet area with clear targets on the high-speed broadband for all parts of the country. The broadband debate is too important to be intrigued to deal with the level of subsidies. We have a job to do at authority level to ensure effective development. The government is doing well to ensure simpler and more uniform legislation and better organisation. Finally, I want to learn about air transport. In fact, an important part of passenger transport in this long-distance country is operated by aircraft. We are concerned that there is a need to facilitate the efficient provision of air routes to ensure good air transport links between the population and industry. Large investments are in progress, both on the Gardermoen and on Flesland. But many smaller airports have high costs and low resource utilisation. It is therefore important that action is now taken to improve the efficiency of operations, and it is also positive that the distribution of air route services will be implemented to help improve the competitive situation. Norway has all the means to solve our transport challenges. But we need action, and we must dare to take action. The budget for 2015 is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1218	The working party is pleased that the government is following our NTP very closely. But it must be a disappointing day for the Advancement Party, which as late as last year actually suggested using 45,5 billion. kr more than us for transportation per year. Yes, I would say so that the realities have also gained the Progress Party. I remember very well all the criticism they had against the red-green transport plan last June. So now I expect the criticism from the Stortinget to be directed towards your own government, or maybe you prefer to put this down, because that's what we've heard all year round: the Progress Party got, after all, only 16.3 p.m. by the votes cast. Then I won't refer to today's poll. I want to say that it was very surprising that you are now in position and have the opportunity to just follow up the NTP, and are satisfied with it. We have heard that many have said today. Yes, in fact, it's 1.584 billion in the budget of the Workers' Party. kr more for transport than in that presented by the Party of Advancement and Right on 8 October. Now the Left and Christian People's Party has improved this government's budget somewhat, but still it is that the Workers' Party has prioritised transport higher than the government and the partners. We can do that because we do not support the direction of the government, which prioritises tax cuts for the few at the expense of welfare for most people. I am therefore very pleased that the Workers' Party has increased the traffic safety post by 22 million. kr. We've increased the pot for research and development by 16 million. kr. We've increased the pot to climate and collective action by a whole billion dollars. DKK, of which 100 million. kr to bicycle. And we have in addition increased by 30 million. kr for the cycling bet. We've increased by 100 million. kr in grants for broadband development. It's like when you build ditches, it's not just about depth, it's also about length. We have also increased the funds for the Railway Agency by a total of 532 million. kr. It must be disappointing for the Minister of Transport not to have achieved in the struggle for funds in the government for overfilling the NTP that they have promised from day one in the government. I also want to mention some of the comments contained in the budget we are going to adopt today. I register that on the road the government does not want to join in locking itself to the Road Package Helgeland and completion as planned in 2020. And then you can wonder if you're already seeing that you're adding up to a race that doesn't reach this timeframe. The working party is also disappointed by the government's lack of commitment to road safety, and it should be noted that the government parties do not agree with the comments on resuming the use of the route ATK on the most accident-affected routes and, in particular, in the tunnels. This is despite the fact that the Transport Economic Institute has presented its study which concludes that the number of fatalities and injuries is halved using the route ATK. We have also taken up the proposal to amend the road law so that tolls can be used for increased emergency measures, such as the purchase of a fire truck and other necessary equipment. So it's positive that a majority in the committee, but then without the government parties, say yes to getting all the school buses in place. So to the railway: here I am disappointed that the government parties and supporting parties on the Stortinget have not supported the comment on upgrading the Nordlandsbahn, the section from Mo in Rana to Ørtfjellet. To rust it up to 30 tons they haven't been on a note about. Finally, I very much regret the fact that there is no continuation of funding schemes for broadband development. It has been repeatedly warned that the lack of broadband capacity can develop a digital class separation. The difference is already big. According to figures from the Ministry of Transport, 90 pst. of households in built-in struts offering high-speed broadband or fibre broadband, while only 25 pst. the same offer is made by households in pig-grown areas. As I said, the working party will spend 100 million. kr more than the broadband extension government. The government cuts its budget the investment in broadband expansion by 110 million. kr. This will affect the digital participation of districts. Luckily, one of the matches in Stortinget has added 60 million to the pot. kr. But still it's 50 million. kr below the current level, i.e. level 2014. When we know that there are applications in excess of 700 million. kr in 2014, everyone understands that this is a little satisfactory. I think it's a social responsibility to give districts equal access to the digital society. The market does not expand broadband where it is not profitable. Therefore, we must take responsibility and have such arrangements as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1250	Good transport policies are good climate and environmental policies. Climate and environment must be a framework for all policies, and this is particularly important in transport. One third of Norway’s total emissions come from the transport sector. Road traffic is the main source of local air pollution. Emissions from road traffic amounted to 19 pst. of national greenhouse gas emissions in 2013. It's about the same level as in 2005. At the same time, emissions from road traffic have decreased since the 1990s, although the number of vehicles has increased due to better technology, which results in lower emissions per kilometre. This trend must continue if we are to achieve our national and global climate targets. In the summer, the Transport Economic Institute presented the report «Road towards climate-friendly transport». It shows us that climate-friendly transport is possible. But it also shows that pure petrol and diesel cars cannot account for more than 23 pst. by the 2050 passenger car park if we are to achieve the target of the low-carbon society within that time. Therefore, we need more hybrid and electric cars, and the fuel used must be more sustainable biofuels. Therefore, the government starts the green tax shift in this budget, a green tax shift the red-green ones called'something strange' when the bourgeois parties proposed it in the previous period. We reinforce the climate agreement by continuing the charging benefits for an electric car, while making it cheaper to buy a plug-in hybrid car. When the Christian People's Party proposed to make it more attractive to buy an environmentally friendly car in 2009, the red-greens voted it down. We, on the other hand, deliver. We're also using carrots in front of the whip. The blending of biofuels into fossil fuels is increased from 3,5 pst. to 5.5 pst. This makes biofuels an effective tool for reducing emissions from road traffic in Norway. This also promised the red-greens to do when they increased their sales obligation in 2010 – but they never delivered it. In addition, a full user charge is introduced for LPG and natural gas, making biogas more competitive. Already now, Håvard Wollan at Biokraft AS in Trondheim says that his company will invest 350 million. kr in a new biogas plant in Forest. This is also a good example of how moving society in a more climate-friendly direction offers new opportunities for economic growth, value creation and new green jobs. Transnova shall be incorporated into Enova. This will ensure a more coordinated use of instruments and a more efficient reduction of CO2 emissions from the transport sector. Enova receives its funds through the Climate Technology Fund. When we wanted to strengthen the fund beyond the climate agreement in the previous period, the red-greens voted it out. This government strengthens the fund, and it will total 62.75 billion. kr in 2016. It also means more money for action in the transport sector. The TØI report also highlights the importance of efficient cities with good public transport. This, too, is an area of commitment in the government's transport policy, which provides good climate policy. For the first time, it is guaranteed that the State will cover 50 pst. by the bill for the development of large-scale collective projects in cities. When we proposed this in the opposition, the red-greens voted it down. Now we deliver, while the Workers' Party in opposition is starting to talk about 70 pst. It's nice to be ambitious, but it helps with some credibility. It doesn't have the Workers' Party here. At the same time, the government delivers the railway budget of the times. Under the red-green government, the decline on rail increased by 1 billion. kr per year. Now this government is turning the trend. The railway undertaking’s investment budget increases to almost 11.3 billion. kr, and for the first time reduced due. This is a significant investment on the railways, which will give us more public travellers and better quality. So there is a lot of good climate policy in the transport policy of this budget. At the same time, it is a budget that facilitates increased value creation and new and secure jobs. We know that there does not have to be any contradiction between economic growth and a climate-friendly and sustainable society. We also received this confirmation in the report ‘New Climate Economy’. I am therefore proud that the government is delivering the greenest state budget of the time and also the greenest budget of the time, which is arming Norway towards the low-carbon society of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1285	In 2005 I entered Stortinget and got involved in the start of the big shift in transport policy that came with Jens Stoltenberg and the red-green government. It was further stepped up in 2009, and for this period a historically good national transport plan is probably at the heart of it. It has also followed up the blue government. They have followed up the national transport plan we adopted before the elections. They have not followed up their own policy of oversupply. Neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party will follow up what they have promised their own voters. That's too bad. It is a shame because it weakens the confidence in politics. In particular, this Party shall apply. They went to the elections on a transport policy that Knut Arild Hareide at the time said it was like believing in the Christmas Eve. Just as we all before or after discover that the daemon does not exist, more and more people discover that Ketil Solvik-Olsen administers a policy that he himself has not opted for. Whether or not the dinislua has come off, is difficult to say, but something has happened. In the diplomat's office, former staging representative Bård Hoksrud was in town. He wrote on Facebook today that he misses being part of the debate here at Stortinget. Now he's the Secretary of State. Perhaps one of the reasons he misses himself in the debate, is that there are no more FrPs who promise to remove tolls overnight or promise more money for transportation. When Åse Michaelsen spoke earlier today about taking the big grips, she was really talking about following up the red-green transport plan. Ketil Solvik-Olsen is also about to become the Minister of Transport who has demanded the most toll ever. In contrast to the Progress Party and the Right, which presented in the budget a proposal that only follows up the NTP from 2013, the Labour Party has realised that the level to which we then posted does not hold. In particular, we see that there are even bigger challenges in the big cities. It also talked about the chairman of the Committee from the Right, but talk doesn't last. Her party has not invested in it in the budget they presented to the Stortinget. Fortunately – again – the Right and Advance Party also have the help of the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is moving a little in the right direction, but not as far as the Workers' Party's proposal, which is 1.5 billion. D on the government's proposals. Today, everyone can see Right and Advance Party politicians boasting money for maintenance on the railways and money for the big cities. The truth is that in their proposal, the draft state budget, they did not add money to this. The working party has added 1 billion. particularly for the major cities through the urban environment packages. Our big cities are growing fast. Transport works so that the investments have to get ahead of the problems they have to solve, a bit like building a house before moving in. If you don't do it, the result can be bad. Oslo needs a lot of things. Some of the projects started under the Workers' Party and the red-green ones, like Oslo-Ski, are in progress and will be important, but we have to go on. We need a new railway tunnel under Oslo, we need a proper upgrade of the T-Bahn, and we need roads with space for proper collective tracks for buses in and out and through the city. The big cities need a real bet on the bike. Oslo is far from other big cities when it comes to cycling. If we are to build a real culture of bicycles that will be important for both climate and public health, we must bet. Several of our major cities also have an under-utilised potential for using the sea as a transport year. Release-free T-Bahns at sea may assist and relieve the existing transport years and facilitate the commuting to Oslo from such places as Hurum, Drøbak and Nesodden. Linda C. Hofstad Helleland from the Right claims that little was done under the red-green. Then the representative of Hofstad Helleland cannot have moved much around the country as chairman of the committee. The Chairman of the Committee is probably aware that the reality is that very much was done during the Working Party and the Red-Greens. She has already admitted today that she has a tendency to be a little pointed. If big cities are to cope with growth and if we are to manage to reduce emissions from the transport sector, the state needs to take more responsibility. The Labour Party takes that responsibility in the budget. We're not just making posts about this in the hall, but we're actually prioritizing it in our own alternative budget, it's not just being forced into place by other parties. It's great to hear Solvik-Olsen and others who are currently busy with the railway and reduced dues. The truth is, they didn't prioritize it when they were going to say whatever they wanted to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1306	The Labour Party wants a Norway with small differences and great opportunities — small differences between people, but also between cities and countries. When we say no to unsocial tax cuts, that means we can run a growth policy across the country. The representative of Wickholm just made a glittering post about the Workers' Party's bet in the cities, so let me take you home to Valdres, or, as Bob Dylan said, 'Winter Wonderland'. In the heart of beautiful, varied Valdres is one of Norway's finest airports. It has given Valdres and Hallingdal unique opportunities, because we can fly charter tourists directly from all over Europe and right into the mountain resort. These tourists have left money in our local shops, in restaurants, in hotels and in ski resorts. This is how the airport has laid the foundation for jobs and growth in a region that really needs it. From Christmas until April, it is scheduled for weekly charter flights both from England and from Germany. Over the course of a few months, 7,500 tourists will be flown straight into the mountain resort, and during the days they are with us, tourists will leave about 42 million. kr. This could have been the beginning of an adventure from the reality of how our airport went incredibly much to two important travel life regions and to the community. But in all adventures there are some who destroy, and who do not understand the best of the community. Unfortunately, this is also the case in this story, because in the state budget, the government proposed to put an end to charter traffic by shutting down the route offer and liquidating the state ownership of the airport. We were many – let me use a term The Advance Party understands – that was “shut”. We were probably prepared that the windiest government we've ever had would cut into district policy instruments, reduce transfers to agriculture and lead a municipal structure that leads to a cut in welfare locally, but that two parties, who have used the entire election campaign roughly to talk about transportation, would put an airport in their first budget, are mildly difficult to understand. It was therefore a great cheer at home when the left went out and said that the airport was rescued, but then unfortunately it would turn out that the left sold the skin before the bear was shot. I could say a lot about Left's handling, but let me say that there is also respect for a party that lies flat and regrets in the local way at home today. We should not forget that these are the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party, and that they are the ones who are being pushed through them in the Great Britain. Let me also say that the warning lights must soon start flashing at the Left and Christian People's Party, because those are the wheels of the bluest government we've had, a government that not only creates greater differences between people but also between city and country. Then I register that the majority say there is to be a searchable support scheme for non-state owned airports. It's not a good solution – it's the second worst solution. For: 1) The aid shall be at approximately the same level, but there shall be more than one aerodrome to apply for. 2) The support is application-based, and we all know that it means unforeseeable. 3) Without route and state ownership, the basis for an important bet is demolished. The budget agreement means that the road will be steeper and heavier, with the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre Party, the charter bet would have security and predictability. But there can be hope in hanging strings. I am sure that Valdres and Hallingdal will continue the good work, and we in the Workers' Party will play on team, but if the charter bet survives, it is despite and not because of the government we have today. And as if this wasn't enough, the budget agreement ended with a cut of 55 million. kr to E16 over the Mountain of File. Starting the route Eye–Eidsbru is deferred. This means that the tunnel that was to eliminate the steep and dangerous turns from Eye to Eidsbru will not be started. The stretch is in itself important for people who live there, but it is also important for an overall expansion of the E16, which I thought there was a broad consensus that we wanted more of in this country. The most striking thing about this debate here today is that the government parties have not followed up their own surrender promises in opposition. But to quote Bob Dylan again, "Seeing the real you at last." Now I think the voters see that the promises are not followed up, and as another famous fine singer says, let's hope that 'the wind from the right will soon turn'.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1325	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1328	I'd like it if people who believe in their own airport were allowed to run it themselves, but we're not going to take that now. If you ask people which route is most important in this country, which train line should be given priority, or in the light of the previous speeches, which airport is most important, the answer from most people will be the road or the train line or the aerodrome they use most themselves. This also marks the debate on transport. Large compromises that should have led to the development of the most socially useful projects first have tended to be compromises where everyone has got a little bit of their way. With this background, the most joyful thing in next year's budget is that the government has taken this seriously. One has already cut through and made difficult choices for the development of the E39. The head of the Transport Committee has been exemplary in its offensive to be cut through on local issues related to large road projects involving the whole country. We are clear that road projects will be more comprehensive. We also open up alternative funding models, such as road companies and OPS, to ensure the implementation of large-scale transport projects. In a short time, the main east-west connections shall be determined. I both hope and believe that the lines that give the most traffic benefit are prioritised. It is an offensive budget for transport which is to be adopted today. For the first time in a long time – until next year – the downturn on road and rail is reduced. The maturity we've seen build up over time is now to be built down. We double the appropriations for planning, so that we are able to increase the rate of expansion later, and we set up a road transport company, which will have predictable funding, and which will be able to implement more comprehensively and coherently. When we have also received an offensive Minister of Transport, everything is at the ready of a new gift in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1343	I had actually prepared a different post from what I'm about to start with, because I've rarely heard such a total lack of understanding of how the budget is set up as in the case of airport at Leirin. If there is something this government is doing now, it is ensuring an airport operation that allows charter traffic to be a future solution and a growth industry for that region. An aerodrome where one is flexible, where one can use persons to handle a charterer from time to time, will be significantly cheaper than having a crew 24 hours a day – or at least the hours a person would have had regular non-serviced scheduled service, where there are two to three passengers seated on the aeroplane each time it goes and which costs the public more than NOK 3000 per passenger. What we are now doing in the budget is to facilitate the possibility of maintaining that aerodrome so that charter traffic can land. We will support this. We want to participate and make state contributions that make this possible. That flexibility I think Leirin needs, and they'll get it. The representative, Wickholm, was also in that one could not understand these grips that were taken by the government, why one does not do as the Workers' Party does and cares for. No, we don't want to dwell on all of the impossible proposals and plans that are old and not organized for the future we're putting up with. We don't want to. And when we're into these old planes, it's quite clear that the big grips that we're taking are just not broken and divided. There are actually four fields and not two fields or two and three fields. Why in all the countries of the world would we spend a lot of dollars on such old plans? No, we want a new way, and we want four fields where it's socio-economically profitable. I myself come from a municipality south of West Agder, and we are concerned that the regions get the promise they need. For us, it's important to get an E39 connecting between Kristiansand and Stavanger. It's important for us when there's no alternative way. It's one of the country's biggest pathways of death. That's important to us, because on this route one of four is on the way, a train. It is important for us to link the most growing regions, which are Rogaland and Agder – and not least to put this in place as quickly as possible, as it now stands in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1352	Many experience isolation and exclusion from social life, most of us take for granted. These are people who, because of their disability, are totally dependent on an adapted transport system in order to live a normal and good life. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to put in place a national TT system that can provide people who cannot use ordinary public transport as an alternative to public travel and their own car – an offer that can enable them to live a normal, active everyday life. This is a matter that the Christian People's Party will continue to follow up this year to help replace the pilot scheme that is now continuing for 2015 with a national scheme from 2016. The framework conditions for electric cars were established by Stortinget through the climate agreement. There has been a broad consensus that incentives for more people to use electric cars are maintained. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to facilitate the use of new technologies, such as electric car, hybrid and hydrogen solutions. It is particularly important that these developments are followed up with the increased development of charging infrastructure. It is therefore necessary for Transnova, after merging with Enova, to continue to provide infrastructure in this area. We are pleased that the budgetary agreement has helped to strengthen this investment by 50 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. For the Christian People's Party, road safety is also about having access to more instruments to reduce the volume of pro-mille driving. The tests carried out on the use of alcohol locks are promising. Alcohol in school buses is an important measure to improve the safety of school pillows. We have noticed that there are different practices in this area in the different states. It is therefore an important matter for the government to intervene in so that all schoolchildren in Norway can enjoy the same level of safety as passengers on the school bus. Studies from TØ this year have shown that distance-ATK can halve the number of fatalities and severe injuries. This is an important security measure, which the Christian People's Party believes the government has to consider using on accident-related road sections to an even greater extent. Urban environment agreements are necessary tools for achieving the objectives of the climate agreement to include all growth in urban passenger traffic in collective, bicycle and gangways. In this way, the major urban regions can plan and implement the necessary measures with the assistance of the State. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that in the urban environment agreements to be negotiated, it is not just the four largest ones that benefit from investment funds from the state. The majority of the Committee emphasises that the other five urban regions are also involved in financing grants under the framework of urban environmental agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1365	I have to start my post a little different than what I thought, because the representative of Stensland said that everyone gets their piece, and he also said, as I perceived it at least, that people could operate their seas at the airport. Then he said something about this with a bit, that everyone has their train distance. But in Valdres they don't have trains, they have a road. We've taken the train from before, now we're going to take the airport as well, and not enough with it, one should actually also cut the allocation to the E16. It's almost like you want to ask, what is the government really got against Valdres? Åse Michaelsen said that what the government is doing is at least ensuring the operation. I haven't found anything about that. Then I just want to ask: how do you think you are going to ensure the operation of Leirin in the future? I would like an answer to that from the government, because I cannot read it from the setting. We're going to get a model that we don't know how to work. The State share shall be removed or the State air route shall not be maintained. That means we're going to operate an aerodrome without daily departures and without a staff member. Maybe it's going to be a call service, I don't know, but it would be very all right if one had been told what this really should be like. Unfortunately, this is how, I think, Leirin is going to be closed from 2016. It will go out of business in Valdres and in Hallingdal, and that's a very bad thing, because in recent years Norwegian skiing has been sold to the rest of the world, and they have actually succeeded in this work. Today, they are flying in to foreign nationals, who choose Norway over the rest of Europe. During this season, a weekly charter plane is waiting for Leirin – 22 people are waiting, as I have been informed. This airport is therefore essential for the further development of travel life in Valdres and Hallingdal. Then there's one more thing too, and that's that Leirin has a very important location in the emergency context. We have heard earlier in the debate on the uncertainty that, in particular, the Left in Uppland has been involved in spreading in the media about further operations. Today we have read that charter traffic may still be maintained through this model, which no one knows how to be, and no one has heard of before. So we're going to take people to a charter airport with no daily departures and no staff. I think, unfortunately, that the airport at Leirin is being closed down, and I think it's also such that both the Left and the Christian People's Party have a little hurt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1376	I can be quite clear that the Left is not hurting today, because this is a very good budget for transport and a budget for transport that is making a significant step towards reducing emissions from the Norwegian transport sector. This is what we do with the changes that lead to us getting cars that are competitive compared to the traditional cars that go on fossil fuels, by strengthening – as we have done in the past – the electric car load by allowing electric cars that are leased to be exempted from VAT even this year. We now have a competitive bet where the loadable hybrid cars get better conditions. Biofuels are made competitive and biogas is also made competitive. In addition to this, there is a charge on air traffic, and we also have a verbal decision asking the government to come back and see how we can make incentives to get biofuels in the aviation fuel. We also – and this is important – impose eco-friendly ferry operations when it comes to tendering. What is absolutely crucial is that we now make good alternatives to reducing emissions and alternatives that can be used across the country. This is an overall budget for transport, where there is also a commitment on the way. In the left we are concerned that there is no good environmental policy with bad roads. Road action is absolutely necessary in a long-range and complex country such as Norway. But the important thing for us is also the railway operation. In the left, we will always insist that we have over time a goal of linking the country closer to a high-speed rail network – throughout Scandinavia, this is strategically important over time. But we also need budgets to take care of the situation where we are today. Last night I took the train from Oslo S to Mysen, and then there was train chaos on Oslo S. It's the legacy left by the previous government. The fact that we now have a budget that reduces the maintenance run for the first time is a good starting point for getting a better offer and a better regularity on the system we have, even today. It is important that we bet on this in order to get a better offer. Then we have the reward scheme. Now we're increasing it by 30 pst. This means that the big cities can manage to take all traffic growth by bike, times and public transport, even next year. Finally, it's quite surprising when I hear representatives, especially from the Workers' Party, who stand here and are very ongoing when it comes to investing in public transport. But as city councillor in Oslo, I remember that for as short a time as just two years ago, the state support was into Oslo and Akershus zero. Now we have a completely different bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1391	We have possibilities if we want. In the transport sector, we have important tools to move forward towards the zero-emission society. Right should be right: there is a lot of good policy here that we have previously also adopted in the national transport plan. I am pleased that the cooperation party has moved on to sums, such as: gives you a little bit more railway maintenance. But in relation to the Right and the Progress Party's budget, SV has found 950 million in our alternative budget. kr more for railway maintenance. When it comes to the reality of the differences between the red-green and blue-blue governments, I think we just have to realize that we're very different from history, and that's why we have so different parties. However, I would like to remind you that we have repeatedly received great thanks and feedback in a positive direction from the important environments that have seen what we have done on the railway in the years we have been in government. It must be remembered that when we took over in 2005, the railway was very hungry. So the starting point of this government is far better than what we had, and of course I'm going to admire them, but I expect more. For the same thing as the Workers' Party, SV plus 1 billion. kr to the reward scheme for public transport and urban environment agreements. It's in and around our biggest cities that we can really take in so it's monars, as we've also been agreed on in this hall before. SV will therefore make the following proposals, proposal No. 7: ‘The Council asks the Government to carry out a professional review of all road development projects in the metropolitan areas of Norway, assessing whether the plans are in line with the Stortinge’s objective of taking all growth in passenger transport in the major cities by bicycles, collectively and by-pass.’ In the end, I would like to say that it is nice that the Progress Party can hit its representatives and SV a little in the skirt, although we are not always in agreement in the view of road betting versus track and bike. And if Bob Dylan had listened to us today, he might have advised us to take a cup of coffee, one more cup of coffee before I go, and see if we got more along to the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1408	The representative of Ingunn Gjerstad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1411	With a government council from the Progress Party, more tolls are required than ever in the country, even if we were guaranteed in the election campaign, without reservation on election results, that if they came to power, there would be zero bombs – and it got the voters with it, for this was the main issue of the Advance Party. It was more important than school, health and kindergarten, to mention something. So I understand that the voters are disappointed today. So according to their own rhetoric, the "land-road robbery" continues, or as Bård Hoksrud would have said, "They're skinning and driving the motorists." According to TV 2's bombers, as it is called, they've soon ran the cars for 10 billion. kr. So it's said that there would have been a lot worse with another government, that is. much more expensive, because they have found a smart solution: pay less, over several years. But if I buy an item and pay $10 a month for five years, or if I pay $5 for ten years, it won't be cheaper for that reason? And if I also have to pay interest, it gets more expensive. The calculations show that E18 is going to be 1.4 billion. It's more expensive for taxpayers, so this is just a fool's game. In my home country, Hedmark, many are disappointed. Majoring representative Tor André Johnsen of the Progress Party promised and guaranteed us in the election campaign a rapid extension of four-field road from Rena to Hamar and the continuous expansion of E6 and E16 from Klöfta to the Swedish border – to mention something. The latter road would be completed in 2017, if I did not remember errors. An example: a week ago I took part in a nice and solemn opening of the route Kongsvinger–Slomarka on E16, but I saw no machines that continued to build the road, as we were promised in the election campaign. Now the representative Tor André Johnsen is currently concerned with the size of the wardrobes in the Ankerskogen swimming pool. That's why I ask the Minister, when are you going to keep building the road? I can also include: When will crossing tracks be built on the Kongswinger track, so that the train from Kongswinger to Oslo can run for less than an hour? The Chairman of the Committee said in his statement that OPS is a good solution, among others. because it guarantees good maintenance. As I understand it, competition is important to the Right. We heard about this today, for example. in the case of rail and passenger services. But when it comes to road maintenance, the situation is different – there is a monopoly. For with OPS, investors are given a gold-plated contract in which the community obligations to pay rent over a period of 25 to 60 years. Investors are granted exclusive operating and maintenance rights throughout the period. It is alarming that the Right is not engaged in competition here. The representative of Helge Place says in his statement that OPS will be cheaper over time. I should like to see that problem. The truth is that the Right and Government want the government to leave the funding of billions of projects to private companies that pay much higher interest than the State. Then the community will pay the entire amount of the payment. We're not just going to carry the high interest rate, but also the profit of the private owners. How this can be good and cheaper politics is a mystery to me. But that there is good right-wing policy here in Norway – we understand that. In the case of the Progress Party’s view of OPS, you mentioned this before the option as ‘heel in the hat’. I agreed, but unfortunately they have also turned the case around.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1426	From landing to landing, the government on the road, line and rail: 54 billion. kr – 5 br. kr and 10 pst. from last year. The numbers are unique. The E18 has been a project that has been on the drawing board for 30 years. Governments have not wanted to relate to the project. This project has received a completely different wind in the sails since the acquisition of the Right-Fremskritspart government. Cows, corks and chaos have been everyday for far too many years both for those who use this road as a local road and for those who use it as a transit route. Now the Storting takes political responsibility in the matter, and that is positive. I have also noticed that the opposition now has an increasing positive will for this project, and the opposition is also going to get credit for it. In fact, the impact of traffic disruption, or the lack of traffic diversion, on E18 is noted in 150 municipalities around the East. This is calculated at 1 billion. kr annually, and if you don't do anything about it, they're going to cost 2 billion in 2030. kr. Too many people in this area, which is actually one of Norway’s most densely populated areas, are exposed to cross-border values both in terms of noise and pollution. Take a trip to Lysaker and stand there for one hour and count buses, you will find that there are 100 buses per hour. In fact, 50 pst is going on. of all public travel in the Western region by bus. This road project is slightly more than a private car project. It is a project that will have a completely different phase-out of public transport and have significant environmental consequences. In fact, Sandvika is one of the most traffic-depleted areas in Norway with most traffic distribution. For many, many years, local development in this area — and to the extent that it is the length of the line — has been hampered by an E18 which has not been taken into account. What is now under way in Stortinget promises well. I look forward to the continuation. Well started is half finished. In the case of Fornebubanen: In 2001, Minister of Transport, Terje Moe Gustavsen, from the Labour Party, promised 600 million. kr to this track – money that never came. The government now has 25 million. kr for the planning and development of the Fornebuban. Finally, it is very gratifying that the government also allocates funds for the redemption of properties and the planning of new E18 in the Lysaker-Ramstadsletta line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1443	In my home country, East-Agder, E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand has been a hot potato in approx. 50 years – a road-hazardous distance of approx. 20 km and with departures so often you go sour in the count when you try. In addition, there are two pedestrian areas on the European road. I have repeatedly stated from this speaker that we must now start work on this important, dangerous stretch. Now my mas is a fairy tale. The Right-wing Party Government has granted money to enable the spade to be put into the ground in 2016. It's a great feeling to know that there had to be a Right Party government to get this in place, while it's cruel to think that the work would have been started many years ago. Had it been, there would have been many fatal accidents and serious accidents that could have been avoided. We know that with good, safe four-field highways with middle parts, there will be fewer accidents. I guess we can also say that now the 50-year-old hot potato is ready to boil, and in a few years we can enjoy the finished four-field highway between Arendal and Tvedestrand. Rv. 9 is an important road for both East Aged and West Aged, and it is the main road between the South and the West. It starts in Kristiansand and goes through both states and the entire Setes Valley before it enters Telemark. It is important to get a yellow middle stripe for those who use the road, both private cars and heavy traffic, but not least it is important for those who live and live along the road. They get a more traffic-proof road with a yellow middle stripe. In spring, the government put down the last unprofitable bomb on Rv. 9 standing in Valle. Money has now been put into the budget for 2015, so that work can continue, and with the leadership that the money will come in the next budgets, a few yellow mid-strips will continue throughout the valley. With regard to the Workers’ Party and the proposal of the Centre Party in this case, they say that there will be an unfortunate accumulation of projects in the last part of the NTP period, despite the opposite in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. I'm really glad they're saying that now. For that to be absolutely correct, I quote from the NTP for the last six-year period: ‘On row 9, the work on repairing sections of Seatsdal is continued.’ Thank you so much for turning this case around! I also commend the seatesdal municipalities and their rapporteurs for their commitment to this road project. They've done that to get a safer way for the population. As far as the railway is concerned, I'm also happy with the increase in the number of take-offs on the Sørlandsbanen, and it's also given an increase in the number of connecting routes on the Arendalsbanen. It will make it easier to take the train to and from my dear Arendal. In addition, I look forward to the KVU that has been ordered to assess the merger of the Southern Railway and the Westfold Railway, an investigation that the Right-Fremskrit Party government has started up, and that the Red-Green government talked a lot about without doing anything about it. Finally, I would like to say that I am also happy for the concession Arendal Airport Goldknob got in ours. We believe that diversity and healthy competition provide customers with a very good offer. Luckily, the Right-Fremskrit Party government has power of action... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1472	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1475	The transport debate is always entertaining, and I noticed that the progress party representative Roy Steffensen boasted that the planning time is substantially down, and even used the left-wing radical Bob Dylan as a truth witness. In response, I will also use Bob Dylan, who in his good left-wing lyrics about community and that everyone should be included, has a song called "The Times They Are A-changing". I refer here to all new toll projects from the Progress Party Councils, and when it comes to time use, I'd like to stay a little bit with it. The training that has taken place with the Pre-package: It took about nine months for one in the department to be able to choose a consultant. This is probably historical. Yes, but historically in time use. There are different times also when it concerns Sogn and Fjordane and the resources we get. Right, we got a 20-metre tunnel, but start-up routes to the E39 line Bjørset – Skei is out, and then there will be no continuous expansion. In opposition, the Progress Party had plenty of means for everything. Then the debate has peaked in the county, since the leadership of the Progress Party from Florø brings down two of the airports, in the neighbouring municipality of Förde and in Sandane. He was supported by the Right Spokesman in Florø, but he was opposed by the Right Spokesman in Gaul and Førde. In general, the E39 will be set up against the coastal road by the same actors. Well, to be a little conciliatory, it's not easy to be a minister with such sprawling advice from your own party colleagues, but I'm wondering if it's this usemya that has led to Sogn and Fjordne being forgotten in the budget. E39 through the county is – and seems to continue to be – a bottleneck. Whenever funds are made available to the county through the interest compensation scheme, this is only for the benefit of the states that are able to borrow. With a government cut proposal of over 250 million. kr within five years for my county it is not possible to raise new loans to our county roads. One must see the soundness, and that's what you do in practice, one must be measured on. In Sogn and Fjordane, we have always had a practice where we rejoice together for everything we can get into the state, no matter who is in government, and who suggests it. It no longer happens - from the Progress Party and the Right. The representative Tingelstad Wøien asked what the government had against Valdres. I would like to add: What is the government against Sogn and Fjordne, which means that we have been balancing item No. 1? The Labour Party warned before choosing what to expect if the Right Party and the Progress Party were allowed to enter government offices. Unfortunately, we got straight at the point after point. The bet that comes, comes in central, and at least not in my state.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1494	I hear that several representatives, from the Right and the Advance Party in particular and in fact also from the Council of State, use the concept that the time of decay is over and that the red-green decay is now to be reversed. I think that even if it is said over and over again, it is not said that it is true. In any case, I think it's a rule to live after knowing the conditions of the past can make you both think wisely and make wise decisions in the future. When the chairman of the Committee from the Right says that the Workers' Party is in opposition, but delivered little in position – and for that matter it is said the same thing from the Advance Party – I would like to remind you that the Right promised 2 billion. kr more than us every year when they sat in opposition. The progress party promised 45 billion. kr more than every year. Then these numbers say a lot about who has behaved in opposition. The council says that now they're going to take this maturity that we kind of didn't grip on. I'm going to admit that last year, in the context of last year's budget, the government spent 1.2 billion. kr more on transport than we in the Workers' Party did. But I still want to ask the Council of State: Is it not that the Workers' Party spends about 1 billion. kr more than the Council of State on Transport in its alternative budget? I also want to ask the Council of State, or the representative Roy Steffensen: if you increase rail investment by 50 pst., as the Red-Greens did from 2005 to 2008, is this an increase on the railway, or is it a decay? When you spend 2 billion. kr on the railway, and increases it to 9 br. kr, is it an increase, or is it a decrease? For this was what was a fact when we were in government. Then I, the Council of State, must be allowed to say something about a quite obvious misunderstanding, because the Council of State stood up here and tried to create the impression that the Workers' Party had intended to take a rematch on the Folloban. Yes, there is a representative here at Stortinget from Oslo who has raised those thoughts, but I was – if the council had read the whole interview – crystal clear that it is not appropriate for the Workers' Party to take a rematch on the Folloban. Now I've said it from this pulpit, so I expect it to be understood. So the state council boasts that he's been to Buskerud in connection with an urban environmental agreement earlier today. Then I want to remind everyone that this is money that is agreed to give, this is money that they get, which is calculated according to criteria. This isn't money that this government is pushing around because it's been working on public transport, but it's because it's an agreement that's at the bottom, which makes you get this money paid out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1507	The government wants to build the country. This is one of the eight bet areas of the government platform. The statement states: «The government will make the necessary investments to realise a high level of infrastructure investment.» This budget shows that the government is serious. It is a budget that takes us one step closer to road and rail, more collective provision, more pedestrian and cycle roads and work on high-speed broadband to all parts of the country. Good transport policy is not just about transport – there is an equal amount of industrial policy and district policy. In meeting with businessmen in the districts, the answer to the question of what is important to them is often: Give us better roads and road links. It is crucial that it be available for goods and services. It is also important for job creation and job creation throughout the country. A priority area for this government is to reduce the planning time for road projects. The Minister for Transport and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation are working together to change the long and comprehensive planning processes we have today. There is a great deal of agreement that the average planning time for a road trip now is ten years, is far too long. In addition, this budget provides for a doubling of resources for planning. In my home municipality, Seljord, we will finally get a long-distance tunnel between Århus in Seljord and Gvammen in the municipality of Hjartdal, the Meelefjell tunnel on E134, which it is starting on these days. The tunnel will short E134 by 11 km and run time by about 20 minutes for heavy transport. There is a project that is estimated to be 2.2 billion. kr, and is 100 pst. State-funded. This project has been working on for almost 25 years, and due to the long planning period, one measure has had several regulatory rounds due to changes in, among others. road width and safety requirements, etc. The costs have also changed since the first time the State Road Administration calculates them. Then they were 800,000 kroner. E134 is, in my opinion and many others, the most important link between east and west. Figures from the Vegvesenet now in the fall also show that E134 is the first choice to be made between the Austland and the West. It's because this is the shortest and the least winter road. It's with tension we're looking at what the Department of Transport will point out as a candidate for the main road between Oslo and Bergen. It is a pleasure that the government is busy thinking holistically about a road section. It is gratifying that the government has undertaken a reform work to ensure more holistic, efficient and coherent development of transport corridors. The establishment of the infrastructure fund and the establishment of a road carrier are an instrument in this context. It is with great expectations we look forward to 2015 and to the sound of many dynamite ointments, excavators in work and the smell of asphalt. We are many who rejoice in car queues – even in the districts – for red lights at roadworks and construction areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1527	At the beginning of today's meeting I was delighted, on behalf of several coastal friends in the Workers' Party's big crowd, to present a proposal for a representative on more goods at sea. We are making more good proposals today in connection with the fact that we are now debating the transport budget, but I can't be quite sure that all of these are getting the required majority when we are going to have voting a little later. The full wording of the proposal for a representative on more goods at sea, which we are therefore allowed to debate more in detail at a later date, is as follows: The government is asking how the short sea shipping strategy can be followed up by concrete measures with more efficient ports, more climate-friendly solutions and changes in fees and charges that can strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. The last Tuesday of this week, the Stortinget Riksrevision debated its report on the State Coastal Administration’s work ‘to increase the share of freight by sea’. And it turns out that the inter-political agreement is not so good at all to achieve the objective of transporting a larger part of the goods along the seaway. Norwegian businesses have higher transport and logistics costs than the countries with which we compete. It must then be an objective in itself to create a more efficient and environmentally friendly transport system. Maritime transport is a mode of transport with low climate emissions per tonne-kilometre, and the transport of goods from road to sea is therefore also an important follow-up to the climate agreement. Nevertheless, not all freight transport is automatically happy and fun climate- and environmental only it is transported by sea. There are many old and impudent ships in the fleet that go along our coast. That is why we also need a stronger commitment to fleet renewal, where the climate and environment side is given a strong emphasis. In this way, it is gratifying to see the increase we have had in the transition from heavy oil to LNG as a fuel on ships. The system of the NOx fund has also been a powerful instrument for cleaner shipping. The fact that we are about to get the first battery-powered car ride in the national road network Lavik – Oppedal, I think is just the beginning of a larger electrification of shipping in our nearby waters. I also believe that this will be brought in when it comes to ships carrying passengers. Even Bob Dylan got new and larger audiences in his time when he went over to electric operation of his guitar!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1549	I often hear that it doesn't have anything to say about who's running, from voters, at home, comrades, or quite ordinary people in the street. On some policy issues, this claim may have a bearing, for Norwegian policies are largely consensus-based, but in many areas there are also differences. It has something to say who controls! That is why I will ensure that I have a copy of the budget for transport adopted here today, in my backpack at all times, so that I can prove to those who say that it has nothing to say who is in charge. Although it may not be what gets the most media attention, the word ‘maintenance’ has been an important part of the debate on transport ever since the post-war period. It is now too, but for the first time in very many years you can now talk about the aftermath with a positive sign, because the aftermath goes down, both on the road and on the track. Everyone knows that if you don't take care of what you own – paint your house, change your oil on the car or brush your shoes regularly – they will eventually fall due. Now I don't know what the scope is like among the red-green politicians, but I hope the care of their shoes is considerably greater than the care they've shown for the roads and the paths they've been responsible for the past few years. Since the beginning of the 1980s, for nearly 30 years, politicians from Central Norway have been arguing about the location of the new logistics hub for the Trondheim region. There has been a typical localization case, where one has not been able to agree, and where one has always pushed the decision ahead, so that the decision has never been taken. It has run on the players in the industry, who have never received a real answer, nor have they ever been able to plan their future. But it has something to say who controls. Now the government has decided that the concept of shared solution south should be taken into account. That means the port of Orkanger, that means the railway terminal at Torgård or Søberg, and that means, not least, that Trondheim's inner file Bratttöra is released for urban development. In a few weeks' time, I'm going to take a train ride that many people have been looking forward to. Then the Thrønderban to Melhus is expanded. ‘85 000 inhabitants between Heimdal and Melhus get a historic boost in the local train offer’, wrote the address a few days ago and followed up with a comment from the Central Party rapporteur in Melhus: ‘Great’. It means who is in charge, and in particular it has come to light in the field of transport policy. That the red-green parts are now starting to come after, is very pleasant – but a little late, that's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1564	I take the floor to talk a little bit about a road system for which Stortinget has only partial direct responsibility, namely the county roads. But I can't fail to give the previous speaker a visit, which is going to go around with this year's budget for transport in the purse to say in the future – hopefully when he's at home in Trøndelag. I think that's very good, because there have been red-green politicians asking to extend the Tronderway to Melhus. It's now being done, and it's very good for many commuters. But this week on the Nord-Trøndelag county council, where I was so lucky to be present, the Progress Party representatives were not so impressed with this, because they thought it would be a worse offer for the North-Trøndelag train commuters. So when Bjørnstad describes how politicians from central Norway have argued, among other things. on the logistical node, which has now been clarified, I would encourage the celebration of one's own door, because there too the Progress Party in the two clusters has quite different responses to the challenges. Having said that, I hope that Sivert Bjørnstad and the government have pressure to find funding for a future logistics hub. The Trondelag region is pleased that after many years you have been given a clarification on how to proceed, but it is still a long time before you have financed it, and there I can promise that the Workers' Party will be a driver. So to what I would say a few words about, most of our public road network, for which the county councils are responsible: it's very good when the government makes great press releases and is very clear and high and dark that they have increased the state subsidies to the county roads. That's good, and it also supports the Workers' Party, but it's a very small part of it that finances our county road network. It is the general economy of the county that determines whether one is able to remedy the maintenance situation on this massive road network. And with the arrangement that the government has put in place for a new income system for county municipalities, there are a number of major challenges for a number of counties. In fact, the challenge is greatest in those states that have the most way, and in the North-Trundellag, the county that I come from, the Transport Councils of the Right put forward a budget and an economic plan that contained a total of 100 million. kr away from the level stated by the State Road Administration in order to remedy the maintenance seat run on the county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1574	It's been a real chaos what the cooperating parties have been thinking about the flight route to Fenerne's Leirin airport lately. The Upland representative of the left has stated everything from the fact that the air route is ‘saved’ to the fact that ‘there has been no further regular service’, and finally, after it was established that the route is to be really shut down, that the left will continue to fight for regular service. With the transport budget adopted today, the route to Leirin will be closed in 2016. And as if that's not enough, the majority will obviously that Leirin will no longer be part of the state and Avinor's grid. This is really a sad day for Valdres. Leirin is part of the runway network and is operated by Avinor, as is the other runway aerodromes. Leirin has a route connection with Oslo and also has a good share of charter traffic, and this includes – the regular service, the operation of the airport and the charter service. Charter traffic has a great potential, especially for ski tourism from Europe to the Beitostølen, Hemsedal and Geilo. The work now done by the travel industry in Valdres and Hallingdal is simply impressive. Charter traffic needs to be further developed and should be supported by the authorities. But that's not what it's about today. Now it's about the flight route and the operations of the airport, but it won't talk about the four cooperating parties. They are just talking about the charter traffic: Abid Raja, Hans Fredrik Grövan and Åse Michaelsen in today's debate and the big business president Olemic Thommessen in Oppland Arbeiderblad yesterday. Everyone agrees to bet on increased charter traffic, but the majority want to cut down on scheduled traffic and remove Leirin from Avinor's network. This is a very good standard high-level short-haul airfield, which Avinor operates very well, and which allows charter flights to land almost at any time. Now Avinor might have to shut down operations. Some others have to take over – whoever it may be – and they can apply for state support. Seeking support! Today, the state stands for the entire operation. Is it so that people from places with short-haul airports around travel to the Ministry of Transport and Stortinget and ask that Avinor no longer operate the airport? I have not registered any such delegation to Oslo – nor from Valdres. Of course it's not like that. This is no bet, this is highway robbery. To present this as a bet is quite frank! I would like to say that it is something like taking away some job and then offering them to apply for unemployment benefit afterwards. I repeat: this is a sad day for Valdres.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1587	This has been a good debate that has made the priorities of the majority to build more roads and railways, bets on the coast, but primarily also to reduce the decline in infrastructure – a decline that has grown over eight red-green years. Then there are some debate themes that I'm going to try to get into. The airport at Leirin: I experience a majority saying very clearly that one should facilitate the possibility of chartering at the airport. But one is pretty little creative if one believes that the only way to have an airport in Valdres is to have an almost empty flight that will fly between Oslo and Valdres to defend the airport's existence. It has to be much better that one facilitates that it can be a good charter airfield, and that's what the majority has said. There is no point in subsidising nearly empty aeroplanes with NOK 10000 per take-off just to have an aerodrome that works. Let's use that money to develop better infrastructure where people actually want to travel, and for example. have a charter aerodrome. One knows one has a good government budget when the opposition does everything it can to take credit for the budget. It's really very positive. Then I also record that the opposition is not united about the direction of what they are proposing. There's a lot of single arms and legs swinging, but there's no common opposition anymore. It's also interesting to notice. In the case of maintenance on the railway, the budget growth under the current government has been 74 pst. In the corresponding period before the government change, it was 2 pst. There is evidence of a shift in bet. I have often praised the Workers' Party for the increase they had in railway appropriations while they were running. But I still think it is reasonable to criticise that nothing was done about the maturity. That you hadn't done anything for a year, I can accept, but when you don't do anything for eight years, it's about you not prioritizing it. This government prioritised it immediately in the budget of last year, and even more in the budget of the year, and the four parties together ensure that the maturity is reduced instead of growing by 1 billion. kr per year. In 2015, the maintenance allowance will be lower than the red-green government provided for its 2014 budget. It's a little strange that the red-green politicians in this room appear to be very concerned about the maintenance run in 2015, which is lower than what they themselves put up for in 2014. It doesn't harmonize with what they did, and the way they criticize the government. So this is actually going to be the most black paint and has little to do with what are real appropriations. So it is also interesting to note that the representative Myrli had a sandwich list that was very long, with all the railway and collective bets he would now have, as they never mentioned in their own national transport plan, while Jan Bøhler has been out saying that he wants a station that the red-greens said was not up to date. Then it's interesting if the Labour Party's leader can say which of the Labour Party's representatives in this Chamber today are actually the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1604	My colleagues from the Workers' Party have given us an excellent report on another good budget for society, as we have done over the past eight years. Welcome after, to the government: you are on your way, but have yet another long way to go. Railways have got a lot of space in the debate so far, but I can say that the double-track railway is not a hot topic around the café tables in Finnmark. Roads, fairways and airports, on the other hand, are important. In recent years, the conditions for cycling and walking have also been widened in many Finnish cities. The Council of State said in its statement that billions of money will be set aside for road maintenance this year. That's good, but I'm not as convinced that he thinks the whole country when he distributes money around. We saw the drawing last year, and it continues this year. In 2014, the government re-prioritized well over 40 million. kr from regional development funds for Finnmark, on the grounds that they were to be used on a better road network in the county. But the fact is that Finnmark was left with half of the 40 million for road use. Where the remaining money is gone, a riddle is too many. If we look at this year's grant to county roads, there's a total of seven million set aside. kr in fresh funds for county roads. The fact that the Finnish market is being reduced is certainly to take a hard time – to put it a little cautiously. In addition, Finnmark has received 7 million. kr for interest compensation for loans that the county has the opportunity to raise for road use. The tragic thing is that this loan option included in the government's billion bill on transport is only theoretical, because the county economy was severely reduced in the budget decision of the year, Monday this week. When it is claimed that this loan scheme is free, it is well to take a little hard on it; the instalments should be paid as well. Governments are aware of the debate on compensation for the employer’s pay in Finnmark. It was to be compensated for crowns. That's not happening. In addition, we see that the state chooses to use this money for its own roads, which are already inside the NTP. Municipal roads are not prioritised in this context, and that is a very bad thing. Alta has an aerodrome which, under weather conditions, causes some aircraft types to be restricted by weight reduction. Alta municipality wants to do something about this, using excess mass from the E6 extension west of Alta to expand the airport by approx. 200 meters. It will improve security at Alta Airport. But then we experience the incredible fact that Avinor, of all people, is turning his back on this project. They say they don't want to be part of such an extension. Unfortunately, in response to me and the local media, the Council of State has agreed with Avinor. First, it costs billions of taxpayers' money to build up E6, but when the big community can get some of this money back for social purposes, state authorities and Avinor say: no thanks, dumping the masses in the sea. It's not to believe!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1619	I record that in the debate the red-greens are very concerned that they fulfilled the previous NTP. It was a much less ambitious NTP than it is now. They should be entitled to spend as much money as was allocated to the NTP, but 22 projects were postponed – 22 fewer projects than they had promised – because the projects were more expensive than planned. In addition, there was a stagnant cycling effort and maintenance increased sharply. We have discussed that very much today. Yet they perform to boast of this. It's like when you've been shopping at the store, you come home, and then you say you were able to use all the money you've got, but you didn't get all the goods. I don't think that's something to brag about. Otherwise, I am very happy that in this debate we are constantly repeating that we are a more offensive party to travel than what the red-greens are. We have shown that we are not only offensive in opposition, but also that we are more offensive when we are in position. We increased the appropriations last autumn as a result of a change of government, and we are well disposed to overfill the NTP, not only in money, as with the red-green ones, but also in projects. We have started a necessary reform work, we have accelerated planning, and we are taking action to reduce planning time. So I don't think of this as a problem for the red-greens. It's actually an advantage for the country, because now we're here and can do the grip that makes sure we can overfill the NTP. It's a problem for the legacy of the previous government. I understand that they can't have much to complain about when what they basically say when we come up with the NTP or with our budget, is that they also wanted to do that. I think the red-green soon have to decide what to criticize us for. That's no more than approx. Six months ago they wanted a revision of the NTP because we made so many changes, so big changes, while they are now criticizing us for doing too little. It's like the Council of State said: the red-green cracks in every direction. Jens Stoltenberg would have said: it is a socialist chaos. But if the NTP was as good as the red-green would have it for, it's nice that we can read daily demands from both local politicians for the red-green parties, and also from people in this landfill, who want new projects all the way in. It is obvious that the NTP adopted by the Workers' Party one year ago is far too poor now when they are in opposition. Therefore, they should be happy that there is a new majority working to overfulfill NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1630	I was inspired by the representative Kjerkol – she should be so happy about that. After eight years of red-green rule, I see that the representative Kjerkol thinks we had the best starting point we could have to continue to pursue our transport policy. I would like to ask you a question: we have a maintenance run of 45–75 billion. kr on our county road network, we have a follow-up of 30-45 billion. kr on the national road network, and we have a aftermath of about 17 billion. kr on the network. Is that a good starting point? In my head, the heirs are the red-greens have delivered from themselves, not a good starting point at all. It's just a bad starting point, because we have to start with the big lag before we can actually get to the big stakes. We're good at both. I understand, of the discussion we have had today, why the red-greens in this room rather want to compare with their alternative budget than what they have actually accomplished over the eight years they had the chance. There is almost no other government after the war that has had a better starting point than the red-green government. They had a clean majority, they could do exactly what they wanted, but what we see is that the lag and the decay has increased in all areas. So an NTP follow-up. We're doing the big NTP, and we're doing improvements on it – and it's just supposed to be missing. If we continue today's level of commitment to what is at stake in the 2015 budget, we are already well on track to meet the NTP. If we keep doing what we've been thinking about, that's, if we're going to increase our bet in the future, we're going to overfill NTP. And that's the goal. But it's not just about spending money. It's also about how we spend the money. It's about organisation, it's about faster planning, and it's about new ways to build and organise the construction of both road and rail. That is why we are well in the process of establishing a road company. For this reason, we will implement public–private cooperation. I'm not going to argue for that anymore, because I think we've given up making the Workers' Party understand the benefits of OPS. Therefore, we will also organise the railway sector differently in order to put in place more competition and other corporate organisation that will provide more targeted management of the railway sector. We are already well under way and have implemented several measures to shorten the planning period. That's what we're talking about when we're talking about a shift in Norwegian transport policy. We're betting more, we're investing more, and we're starting to reverse the decay. We'll take the maintenance run that's there. We organize ourselves smarter and plan faster. It's a change of pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1645	The Transport Budget is an important building block in the work of government and cooperation parties to solve important tasks today and equip Norway for the years to come. Transport, goods transport and infrastructure are the very lifeblood of social development. We are a perilous people, in a long-distance country, with extensive trade with the outside world. That is why roads are important, and therefore rail, maritime transport and aviation are important, in order to strengthen contact between people and in order to create values. The financial envelope for NTP has been overfilled by nearly 7 billion. kr, with steady escalation added to the ground forward. The budget makes use of public–private cooperation that provides more effective implementation. The results are for us the most important, not red-green dogmatic approach to solving important societal tasks. The Government and the Cooperation Parties establish a road carrier that will have predictable funding and will be able to implement the development of transport projects more comprehensively and coherently in the future. And we're reforming the rail sector to get a more business-oriented and customer-oriented structure. The reform is fuelled by the whole sector. In particular, we stop and reduce the expiration of the national road network by approx. Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bn, Bnt, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, For the first time as far back as we have reliable figures, the maturity on the road and rail will be reduced in 2015. For my home country, Buskerud, this is a significant boost: with 0.5 billion dollars. kr to E134 Damåsen–Saggrenda in Kongsberg and Obere Eiker, for rv. 7 and Rv. 52 in Hallingdal, for rv. 7 Sokna-Örgenvika in Ringerike and Krødsherad municipalities, for the temporary extension of the Fosskol tunnel at E18 in Lier, funds for the planning of projects E16 Skaret-Hønefoss and E16 Eggemoen-Jevnaker-Olum, funds for the planning of the project rv. 35 Hokksund – Against, and not least, funding has been allocated to the planning of the project. 23 in the municipality of Lier. In addition, several bets come on the railway. I mentioned these projects because there are many of us who have worked for many years to take these a step further. With this budget, we see that this work has succeeded. We're going a step further. It's gonna lift Buskerud up in the future. It's good news for the county, it connects the population more closely, and it gives business growth impulses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1662	There were several who were inspired by Kjerkol. She said something about it being the first overall budget the Labour Party is presenting in opposition. But it was actually the Labour Party that put forward an overall budget last year, which was the main basis for the budget we have this year. Also in that budget, the maintenance allowance increased by 1 billion. kr. But it didn't get a majority, so we now have an increase of 400 million. kr. From the next year on, it starts going down. But there is also something else that has come up. It is the Workers' Party's commitment to urban environmental agreements and the major allocations – this billion. I was the county rapporteur in Akershus and was going to meet the red-green government to get a reward arrangement for Oslo and Akershus. We asked for a meeting with the Council of State – we got a meeting with the Council of State's personal adviser. It ended up with zero, just like it always did. Now there's a lot of money coming to our area. Thank you for that! But I'm going to be a little stunned when you now frame up a whole series of measures that are not planned at all. They're at the thought stage, they might be in a KVU. It's really just the Fornebuban that's ready for pots. And even not on it is going to spend a lot of money in the current year, it comes only from next year. I think in the case of urban environmental agreements, there will be a rush of payments at the end of this four-year period. Then it's not urgent to grant 1 billion. kr. Now. This can be done at the end of the period – to take in what is needed. I think the Right is going to fulfill its promises in the NTP, because we're already almost up to the level that we're going to be, by 2 billion. extra kr per year. Here I am optimistic. Then I want to say that there are also some other things going on, which was adopted last June. Then was the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party together on a series of proposals for Roman number decisions, which it is interesting to see. I recognize them. The proposal for a Roman Numeral Decision I was that the return on the State pension fund abroad should go to investment in roads, railways and other transport structures. IV was about the conversion of the signalling systems to ERTMS. We're doing that on the Eastfold line, and there's no doubt that it's going to spread gradually. We have said that in new projects it should be implemented. Enable ‘re-dispatch of baggage to the final destinations where customs processing is available at the aerodrome’ — X — we are in the process of doing so. To ‘open up to competition in the carriage of passengers by train’ – XV – we have done something about that. A ‘competitively neutral ownership structure of all public freight terminals’ — XIX — iodine; we also meet NTP beyond what was adopted. We're dealing with many of our own suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1673	New and better solutions, equip us for the future, robust – these are the emperor's new clothes. This is the seventh and last concrete act that counts. And can you also call it concrete action when you cut? So for the cooperative parties, they're cutting the road again, and no one's saying what's going to be cut, and what that means for the users. You also cut the E16 over the Philesian. What that means for those who are going to use the road, we have not received an answer. After the Council of State round, it obviously means nothing. National tourist roads are being cut. Is that a good thing for the travel industry? It's cut on broadband. This means that there will still be many people who have poor broadband solutions. Whether you want to challenge the players to build up cheaper, there are still many who will have far too poor solutions in the future. It means a still digital class distinction. It is cut in districts collectively, the short sea shipping strategy in the national transport plan is not followed up, other than 10 million. kr to more cooperation between the ports, Ferensen Airport Leirin is put down in practice, and I ask myself: is this just the beginning of the closure of the short-distance network? The centre party has noticed that it is the Christian People's Party and the Left who have drawn the appropriations to the railway on both maintenance and investment in the right direction. The government does not follow up the need for racial protection funds on either national or county roads, when one sees the need for continued racial protection. The county councils clearly say that they have large projects they can't start with, because you don't get the appropriations you need. There is no response to the need for funding for county roads. Increased interest compensation to county councils is not good enough. Both the KS and the county authorities say that the debt burden is high enough as it is. The centre party has supported the maintenance of interest compensation, but sees that it alone will not meet the needs of county municipalities. That's why we've put more money on the table in our option. And all of these cuts and the lack of follow-up happen to finance tax credits for a few. The NHO clearly says there's a need for 2.7 billion. kr to follow up on NTP. The council says they've granted 7 billion. kr above, but recognizes a follow-up of 48,7 pst, or after the comparison 48,9 pst. In its alternative budget, the Central Party proposed an overall commitment for infrastructure and road users of 2.6 billion. kr. It includes county roads and tax havens for work trips. It's about priority, it's actually about where we want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1692	In my role as a prime minister in the Business Committee, I often meet the business actors when I'm visiting around the country. The theme is, of course, industrial policy and how to create competitiveness. All of them, most of them in the business world, are very concerned about transport policy to create competitiveness. The government is being commended for its willingness to bet on taking hold of the maturity we have seen on the national road network. There's no doubt there's a gigantic maintenance drag after the red-green government. The maturities are over 1 billion. kr a year, but this is now being included again in the new budget that is now here. There is also a large maintenance run after the previous government transferred much of the national road network to the county councils. It has created major challenges for the county councils. But this work done by the government is noticed, and I thought it was greedy fun to praise this when I'm around the country and visit different companies. So I hear there are a lot of people here who are critical of OPS. I'm actually really excited that I'm in Prop. 1 S for 2014-2015 can see that the Sotra connection is a OPS project. I come from the region that gets this extension of the connection in place as an OPS project, as well as both the business community and the inhabitants there are eager to get us finally able to figure out the course for this project that is very important not only for the region but for the whole of society. It is a large and important business in the region, with a significant export value. Magne Rommetvet mentions that there was a Document 8 proposal to get more goods from land to sea. The theme is very important, but I have been told that the Council of State and the government are doing such work, and I am excited that the government itself has seen speed in this matter and in this important work. This will work with both the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Industry, where a new maritime strategy will be developed in this field. I am excited that several departments support this work and chisel a new course for it. There is a significant decline in competitiveness both for the merchant fleet and for the coastal fleet. The fact that one focuses on this, I thought it was very, very good. This will allow us to obtain more goods from the road – road along the West, which has a significant lag in maintenance – and across the sea. So it's focused well here, and we're very much appreciated along the coast -- a new maritime strategy, and the effort being made to get more goods from land to sea, it's seen us as living along the coast, very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1710	I note that both the Right and the Advance Party representatives are very pleased with the budget that was presented today. That's good. It's like we've said several times: it's good, but you can't try to sell it in for more than that, you're actually following NTP. And then you get equal or different that the NTP was adopted by the red-green ones, and that you had completely different suggestions a year ago than what you have today. That's the reality, and you can't talk away from it, even though I understand very well that you want it. I also notice that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party are standing on this platform today and strongly boast that they have stopped the maintenance work both on the railway and on the road. It's also in line with NTP. And then we're criticized for referring to it, but that's also the facts. Do you want to talk away from it? What is not the facts is that it is actually not the Right Party and the Advance Party that are stopping the maintenance launch. The proposal that was presented on rail from today's government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, is less than the amount that we have in the budget today. If there were anyone who had reason to stand here on the pulpit today and be satisfied, it would have been the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, who in the committee have intervened to increase the amount of railway maintenance. Then you stand here and you have to take credit for it. You can do that, but the reality is that we all know what was presented on October 8, and that was below both what was average in NTP, and what was to count in terms of maintenance. The correctness shall be correct. In the case of roads, it is said that one ‘overfills’ on the road as well. Then you're very good at dealing with the positions where you're actually on the line or across the NTP. What you choose not to mention is the points where you're far behind. We're going to spend less money on the road next year, you're actually only 45 pst. by NTP. That's because you haven't started the toll projects, that's one of the reasons. It is also striking – this has been mentioned by several – that when you kiss, where do you kiss? Well, then it's exactly the county roads. The example there is a sliding protection of the county roads, which you cut on. Who are they? It is the same as the losers in the budget that we adopted on Monday. Why are they losers? Well, tax cuts have been chosen for the rich instead of building well-being and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1720	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1723	Ferry-free E39 from Kristiansand to Trondheim is a project that connects regional centres in a completely new way. There are many individual projects that you can draw up, but let me just mention three very briefly: firstly, we are very pleased that the department has now announced to the State Road Administration that the four-field motorway between Kristiansand and Stavanger will be planned. The volume of traffic you have, including freight, is absolutely necessary. Secondly, we are very pleased that Anda-Lote now receives a 20-minute frequency, it is an important ferry service that connects two growth centres and provides the basis for further value creation. Thirdly, the route Bjørset – Skei along the E39 is a bottleneck, and it is essential to achieve a realization and start-up as quickly as possible. In the Christian People's Party we are also happy about the railway operation: the connection between Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen, that one has now received two hours of frequency from December 2014 – we are very pleased that the department has given a clear signal to – and that we are now at the beginning of an opportunity to offer a completely different offer on the railway along the Oslo–Stavanger route than the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1730	When Jonas Gahr Støre was elected head of the Workers' Party, one of the first things he did in the interview was to announce a new climate policy. He wanted Norway emission-free. The promises of the Workers' Party to make Norway emission-free are not entirely faithful when we hear the Workers' Party's argument about the route to Leirin, which is to be shut down. It is a flight that has three passengers per take-off – three passengers per flight! To maintain it, we cannot call it a forward-looking and green transport policy. Today's route gets NOK 3290 per seat in state grants, and TØI has calculated that we get one penny back per grant crown. It surprises me that the Workers' Party today is jumping completely away from its climate promises. Today they mean nothing. They also fail to tell the truth. Workers' party representatives stand on this platform and claim that the aerodrome is to be closed. That is not true, and the representatives of the Workers' Party should come up and clarify. It's like the air route is shut down, but the cooperation parties have worked hard and thoroughly over the past two weeks to ensure future operations at the airport, to ensure that charter traffic is stowed. It is also the challenge we have faced at Stortinget – to ensure that charter traffic continues to operate. We do, and I look forward to following Leirin and the offer they will give to passengers who will benefit from ski tourism in Valdres and Hallingdal in the future. I have often praised the Workers' Party for the good they have done for the railway, but the right should be right. They chose not to prioritize maintenance when they were in government. It's a fact. The working party was given the chance to prioritize maintenance for eight years. The maintenance run was not prioritised in the first year – yes, it might be a forgotten one. But the Workers' Party chose not to prioritize maintenance for eight years, and it is not said to be a forgetfulness. I record that the Labour Party in this debate is trying to decorate the truth, trying to jump from the fact that the Stortinget only today, with a new Right-Fremskritspart-government, will stop the red-green decay. I have to say that it is probably not a parade for the Labour Party politicians who have stood here today and tried to tell a story that the decay did not occur during the reign of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1741	In the last few years, Norway has had a government that is committed to solving important tasks today and to equip Norway for the years to come. The transport area illustrates this very clearly. Shopping and allocations provide rapid results for roads and roads, as people, businesses and the environment notice quickly. At the same time, strengthening infrastructure is essential to equip Norwegian businesses and society for the future. The infrastructure of the country shall be a priority for the nation. It is important for citizens, for industry, for road safety, for the environment and for country interconnection. This is why the government is pursuing a policy that gives significant impetus to new major projects and that takes better care of what we have already built. So the budget agreement in Stortinget is going to be 7.4 billion. More on the budget of the Ministry of Transport than on the last draft budget of Stoltenberg II. After the country got a new government, there has been a lot of fun around the country for everyone who is busy with transportation, and that's most. In my home area, we finally get – after more than 20 years of waiting – a clarification of the location of new freight terminal for the Trondheim region, south of Trondheim, with port solution on Orkanger. This is an example of a case in which we have received an impatient and effective government, which does not push matters ahead. Decision refusal has been replaced by enforcement. The train offer around Trondheim on Trønderbanen improves a great deal, with several departures, which facilitates considerably more train passengers and simpler and more environmentally friendly commuting – yes, actually also a flight offer from Melhus South of Trondheim to Værnes. I would like to repeat that: the power of action and the ability to implement it. We are told that we will finally realize the development of a safe and good E6 from Trondheim to Ulsberg, with a rational and efficient continuous development. A little has been more elongated in the South-Trøndelag and Trondheim area. As was not enough, the funds for collective action in the big cities are greatly increased, including Trondheim. Our growth areas must be able to avoid traffic growth with public transport and it contributes the Right Party Government to more than any government before. So I repeat, it's a lot to enjoy, both in the South-Trande Team and the rest of the country. But this government does more than give important money. Simplifications are needed in planning to speed up the implementation of important projects. Therefore, planning processes need to be simplified and streamlined. The number of objections raised by the Ministry of Local Affairs has already been reduced and the duration of treatment has been shortened, thus speeding up important development projects. The government also simplifies, renews and improves transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1758	The representative Trellevik said that when he traveled around with the nutrition committee, they also spoke a lot of transport from that committee's perspective. I can sign that when the municipal committee is traveling, we talk about local economy, but of course also a lot about transportation. When we read the budget, there's no doubt that transportation is one of the big budget winners, which slips us into the Progress Party very much. Many of us have been involved in politics precisely because of an ardent commitment to trade, and then it is unlikely to be fun to see that a government that we are in provides – to a large extent different from previous governments – better results in the field of trade. A lot of people have been up there talking about the state of theirs getting a lot. My home country, Hordaland, also gets plenty. In 3 minutes, it is difficult to list all the goodies in the 2015 government budget. There's a start-up run for Os-Bergen that's important. There is an important clarification of OPS on the Sotra connection and an advance there that is good. Then it's also nice for me that my home municipality, Austevoll, gets 172 million. kr to a new fishing port, which will create and secure jobs in the district. But in the West and in Hordaland there is one way that is debated the most, e.g. E39. It's been that long, but now there's another kind of discussion. In the past, the discussion went on: What time does it go by for trasé? Does it go on inside, or does it go on in the middle, or what does it go on? And we were waiting for clarifications. When we got a new government, we got the clear lightning rush. Ketil Solvik-Olsen explained in one of his first weeks that it should be middle – a wise choice. Now the discussion of other things, at what time we're going to get started, and how we're going to build this important road between Trondheim and Kristiansand past our area in Hordaland. We are pleased that one has chosen the shortest route and also opened for good connectivity for the municipalities around, but the focus is to have a short distance from a to b and not to enter all possible communities on the road. There has been a lot quoted from the Official Journal of Bergen in this Chamber in the last few days, and I'm going to do it now. The spokesperson in Austevoll came in the Official Journal of Bergen a few days ago with a good suggestion for an E39 link: Renate Mögster Klepsvik then showed a sketch for a floating bridge from Tysnes and over to Austevoll, which, if realized as a connecting road, will make the largest non-residential municipality in Norway, Austevoll with 5,000 inhabitants, be associated with this important main year of travel. The input that came from it is exciting and something that I will of course follow up on in the dialogue with both the Ministry of Transport on the exit and – not least – the County of Hordaland, which is the ones who need to grab the supply routes and make sure that they can be expanded in parallel with the E39 extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1777	Many will take credit for the appropriations in the budget, and that is good. Often this budgetary discussion is about a feeling that there is too little money for different purposes. Now there is very little criticism of it – on the contrary, there is an attempt to take credit because the sums of money were as large as they were. This shows that the government and the majority have made the right priorities. I also record that the Workers' Party will have been asked to be reminded that the maturity grew under their eight-year reign, but it is worth remembering how a prioritized then one had the power – not just how one does it when one can raise taxes theoretically by 13 billion. 16 B.C.E. kr or how many billion dollars the calculator for the Workers' Party showed. It is also an interesting development when the representative Juvik suddenly brings up this debate on tax cuts to the richest. I would like to remind you that in the transport sector, the car charges are the most relevant to compare with, and in this area, the majority proposes to reduce the tax burden by around 2 billion. kr – in contrast to the Workers' Party's alternative budget, where the tax burden on the drivers is proposed to increase by nearly 1 billion. kr. Then I see that what Juvik criticises is that tax cuts to the drivers are tax cuts to the richest. I do not regard the car as a luxury product – as opposed to the Workers' Party. In the case of credibility, one should also have provided in line with the criticism. If you think that a government is too small to deliver, you should at least have delivered in line with it yourself. In the case of a national transport plan, this government delivers around 49 pst. of the frame. That means we've almost halfway allocated almost half of the money that we're going to grant for a four-year period. The Labour Party believes this is far too small. Let me then remind you that halfway in the previous NTP, an NTP that was just about. Half as large, the Workers' Party was able to grant only 47 pst. after two years. This government has granted 49 pst. on a nearly double-sized frame. In the NTP that was before there again, which had an even smaller frame, the Workers' Party granted around 48 pst. So as they increased the frame, they were able to fulfill less. When we've increased the frame, we're doing more at the same time. There is evidence that we are much better off fulfilling – and over-fulfilling – the plans that lie ahead of what the Workers' Party itself did. The working party boasts of how much money they have given – so we are even better placed on the same ranking. Let me also remind you that the Labour Party and the Center Party a few months ago in this Chamber discussed the need to have a new review of the NTP, because this government has so many ambitions and so big stakes that the Storting must be allowed to participate and re-prioritize in the NTP. Now, one of them suddenly says that one just follows the red-green proposal of the NTP, but one has admitted, through attempts at the Storting, that the bets are much larger. We'll show that when we already have 7 billion. kr in front of the form. I remind the Working Party of that, because they haven't made their calculator work: 7 billion. kr in front of the form is as far as we have come. It's not in line with NTP – it's in front of NTP, because we want a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1792	The representative Eirin Sund has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1795	In an earlier speech today, the Council of State was uncertain about the Labour Party's policy. Then I just want to say to the Council of State, since he obviously has not seen it, that everything that is the budget of the Workers' Party is what was in our NTP, with the exception of the Ålgårdbahn. All the sections of the track that we have in our budget, which the Council of State requested instead, are sections of track that are also in our NTP. We've moved some sections of the track forward in relation to the plans, because we have to do it to take account of population growth and to meet the climate challenges. In the case of Folloban – I have to go back to it again – there has never been any uncertainty as to what the Workers' Party believes about it. But it is in the Labour Party that the representative Jan Bøhler, who is concerned with the needs of Oslo and the Oslo people, must be allowed to ask the Council of State and get answers. He got the answer. We've never changed our policy. I am pleased that the government parties are pleased that they are essentially following what is actually the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1804	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1807	I took the word because there were two right-wing people who had noticed me, and that's how you get enthralled. The representative Helge Place said that I had said that the government had taken over the best starting point one could have. It's probably a direct mistake. We have good references, so I think we'll figure that out. But what I said was that you've taken on a good starting point, and I'm standing by that. If that's how the representative Helge Orten and the government think they had a bad starting point, I think it's very strange that you haven't increased any more from last year's budget to today's. I'll hold on to that. As for the description that the red-greens for eight years simply did not do their job – we did not do our job, said Helge Orten – we actually increased the appropriations by 64 pst. The last time the Right was in government, they increased the appropriations by 10 pst. It would have been interesting to hear the characteristics of Right's job in government the last time you sat there, from the representative Helge Orten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1816	I have also been mentioned in the Chamber today, I hear. I'm sorry that I've been involved in committee work in my own committee instead of being able to participate. First of all, I would like to say to the Left that we have been in a transition in the transport sector before. It was then the Minister for Transport of the Left, Toril Skogsholm, who put Gjøvikbanen on a competitive footing. There was no way of raging an offer and what a threat it would be to Norwegian train traffic. During the period of red-green government, it is likely that little has been done to make it a huge success, but the work was done when it was put on the market. It is not difficult to see today that next after the Fly train it has been the biggest success in Norwegian train traffic for the last – probably – 50 years. It is possible to think anew, and in this way I will commend the government parties for the fact that it has been possible to rethink in the course of the fall to ensure the tourism industry in Valdres and Hallingdal in view of the charter traffic on Leirin. In fact, it is possible to have more constructive forces and to get working capital to deliver what is needed as an industry with high incomes. It is clear that three air passengers a day on an air route are not the ones that lower the travel life cycle in Valdres and Hallingdal. Most people come in by car and bus. It is clear that they may miss some future options related to regular services, because it is not possible today to operate regular services outside Avinor’s operating system. Now we have to look at what opportunities open up to a charter-based aerodrome. For the Left part, the fight has been about not taking that box right now. Now we have to find opportunities for charter traffic. Then we think there are also opportunities for regular services in the future, where they can play together. Winter tourism in Europe has challenges related to the vulnerability of the Alps, and Fjell-Norway and Winter Norway have great potential for growth in combination with product development and a more vulnerable market in Europe. It is important that the charter bet in Valdres now be continued. There's no doubt that it's in place. It is also important to develop the operating model and acquire active owners in addition to local owners. I see that the stalls, which are an optimistic folklore, have launched Olav Thon as a current owner, and if we get Charter-Svein on the team, there can be many creative models. I imagine that the cavalry can now take charter flights to Stroemstad and trade tax-free on board and buy cheap liquor in Sweden as a model.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1828	Transport debate in Stortinget has used to be one of the really big days. Then it was not the representative who should have been unsaid here in the hall. We are now about to have one of the shortest debates we've had in a long, long time. I can't read it any other way than that here it's not easy to write home for government parties and supporting parties. If it's not very little to write home about, it's at least a lot less to write home than what they promised their voters before the election campaign. We've been used to active FrPs and right-wing politicians in this room. Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen believes we have some sort of competition here today to take credit. But the Solvik-Olsen also admits that he is now on 48 p.m. of the plan adopted by the red-green before the election, but it is nevertheless in front of the form. That Ketil Solvik-Olsen after such an opinion has nerves to claim that there is something wrong with the red-green calculator, seems quite strange to me. Then we hear very strangely in this debate as well. I from Akershus believe that we do not need money for Oslo and Akershus, that there are no projects to spend the money on. I took a short phone call to the Labour Party City Board in Oslo. They have projects to spend the money on. I am sure that I would have received the same answer if I called the Workers' Party in Akershus. So the right-wing parties don't have projects to spend money on in Oslo and Akershus, almost have to account for the right-wing parties themselves. But there is no doubt that the great shift in the pace of Norwegian transport policy came with Jens Stoltenberg as Prime Minister. It was then for the first time that a government promised money to an NTP that it followed up. It was a new rate change in 2009, and an even stronger rate change in 2013, a rate change that has now been brought to the level of the sitting government. They do not follow up their own promises that Ketil Solvik-Olsen and others have made, an NTP of 500 billion. kr over this NTP. That you can then stand in the Storting and say that it is we who deliver what we promised, we are a government that follows up what we have said, is quite difficult for me to be tested on. I just note: here there are no more so many who are inside the hall, proud and active. There's a debate going on here. I think it's closely related to a labyrinth's social policy on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1841	The President will point out that you should address the President and not individuals in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1844	I am actually proud of the budget that has been presented. If one goes back 50 years in time, to the beginning of the 1960s, it was actually planning to build Norway, build the country as the United States and the rest of Europe did. For the Inland part, the planned continuous four-field motorway from Oslo to Lillehammer was to be completed by 1980. But changing governments failed the drivers, they failed the people, and unfortunately the plans were never realized. The Stoltenberg government also had – consciously or unconsciously, I don't know – a decision-making refusal, which led to many, many, many years of delay in the planning of the E6 through Akersvika in Hamar. Luckily, next Saturday the last part – at least the last parcel for the time being – opens on the project E6 four-field motorway from Gardermoen to Colomoen, but then the project stops for the time being in the middle of the forest in the municipality of Stange. It has been essential for today’s Right Party Government to give priority to transport and provide for a faster deployment of E6, because there is no logic that a national highway should stop in the middle of a forest in the municipality of Stange. As a result, I am very pleased that the Right-Fremskritsparte government has ensured that the budget is now set up next year by funds for the planning and further development of the E6 Colombo in Hedmark to Biri in Uppland. And both the government and I have a clear goal of completing the four-field E6 through Hedmark and beyond to Uppland long before the little ambitious and low-obligatory plans of the former government. As a good relations enthusiast and inland patriot, it is not only faster to develop the E6 that delights me. There are also several good issues in the budget: it is provided with funds for the planning and design of the four-field Løten-Elverum motorway. Funds for various remedial measures have also been allocated to Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox It is also provided with funds for planning the E16 from Klöfta to Kongsvinger. And perhaps the most important thing for many of those who run daily on many poor, holes and miserable maintained county roads, where we only in Hedmark have a follow-up of 2 billion. kr: The government comes with a real lift. We're going to put the entire 3 billion. kr to the interest-rate compensation scheme and 1 billion. kr in fresh funds for new investments. This is a massive uplift, especially in the light of the fact that the Stoltenberg government actually proposed to wind up the entire interest-rate compensation scheme. One last small comment on the railway system: there is also a fantastic uplift – in fact the greatest promise that has been made since the late 1800s – and it is also an advantage for the intercity triangle, which, for Hedmark’s part, with Oslo – Lillehammer, is an important extension to get speeded up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1859	I would first like to support the brilliant contribution of the representative Truls Wickholm, but would like to help me to add that the change of pace before transportation came with a successful combination of a Prime Minister like Jens Stoltenberg from the Workers' Party and steady Ministers for Transport from the Centre Party. In this article I would like to say a little about the TT system, which is about organised transport. Three municipalities have been involved in a pilot project in the period 2012-2014. The project intends to improve the TT system for people who, due to disability, have significant difficulties in travelling collectively. More and Romsdal is one of the states. In the draft budget of the Ministry of Transport, the government proposes that the probationary system be extended by one year, until 2015, and that is excellent. Otherwise, the time is not only to extend the scheme, but also to extend it and gradually make it a permanent arrangement in all states. As I said, we have experience with this current TT project in my home state, More and Romesdal, and one has summed up the experience of presenting some of the contributions that the users themselves have made to the county municipality, and these have been published on the county municipality's website. Here we see the following, and I'm paraphrased on the dialect: Users very much appreciate the coupons. Then they can get out and be social and visit the shops and services they depend on. Users report an unlikely good offer that makes it possible to get into forests and fields and visit friends and family without being dependent on others. A story that the first few days went by to get over the slippery jacket: think I can be on something when I want to. I'm happier, I now have the feeling of living and not just being alive. One should of course further consider how this system should be organised around, but it is not possible to come to this conclusion: the system has been a success and many more should be allowed to participate in it. In the Center Party, we're busy contributing to practical progress for those who don't have the ability to get around, like most of us. So in our alternate budget, we've seen $4 million. kr to extend the scheme to several counties. This is a large increase for a measure that is only funded by 11 million. I already have a kr. Unfortunately, there aren't many for this on Stortinget now, but we're going to work on this goal further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1876	We have long talked about Northern Region bets, and in fact, there have been quite a number of plans to invest in the north to take out the value creation potential that the report Future in the North also points to. Especially in farming, the northern part of the country is a truly potential growth area for the whole of Norway. But in order for us to be able to take this potential out, there's no doubt that we need to have good infrastructure. Then it kind of doesn't just have plans. I have over many years as a politician viewed the ambitions that have been in NTP, the ambitions that lie in county road plans, made by many county municipalities. The problem has been that plans are rarely or never followed up with sufficient appropriations, to great disappointment and irritation for very many who have been politically engaged in the transport sector. I remember very well the first page of the Northern Lights after they presented the state budget from the Red-Greens. It was a quite shocking front page, and it was shocking to more than us in the Right, the Advance Party and the bourgeois parties. I remember very well that I got a lot of angry red-green politicians who would be in the grievances that North Norway, the region with great growth potential, had got under 1 pst. – I think it was zero comma something – of the total bet from the red-green state budget. It was a disastrously poor bet, and it was criticized by many. Today's government is now moving from a word area policy to a north-eastern policy. You go from just talking about that it's going to bet on transportation, to actually doing it. The proposal that is now before us starts to correct the E6 on Helgeland north of the Kvänang mountain in Troms. It's going to start. There will be tunnel construction start through the Mountain in Northern Ireland next year, and in addition, work on the Harstad package and the Urban package Bodø will begin. A total of 3.3 billion is now to be invested. kr on the roads in North Norway, and that's the highest number ever. That means 19 pst. of state investments in the north. The county roads also have a significant share, 16 pst. of the national framework. This shows that we have a government that sees the potential in the north, and that is willing to bet. To quote Torbjørn Naimak, regional chief in the north: ‘The State budget implies a still high level of investment on the roads in North Norway. In addition, we get a level of maintenance that does not increase the maturity’. That's a word for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1890	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1893	It is possible that I quoted the representative Kjerkol incorrectly on the move, but in any case I believe that we have not got a good starting point when we have a aftermath on the county roads of between 45 billion kroner. kr and 75 brd. kr, a aftermath on the highways of between 30 billion kroner. kr and 45 brd kr and a follow-up on the railway on approx. 17 B.C.E. kr. When we know, at the same time, that the lag increased under the red-green government in all the eight years they had the opportunity to do something about it, I believe that there is evidence to suggest that we do not have a good starting point when we now start work, and that there is also a basis for claiming that there are some people who could do a better job when they had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1898	The representative Åse Michaelsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1901	I would say – considering the representative Eirin Sund mentioned those projects – that the Workers' Party delivers on what they have in the NTP. But then the representative Myrli comes and puts on a lot of projects that the representative wants. Does that mean that the representative Eirin Sund is nullifying the representative Myrlis' wish? The representative Truls Wickholm was concerned that there is very little going on in the hall, and that it must be because it is so little to greet home about. No, it's because it's such a good budget that there's so little to complain about. Finally, I was once the head of the trade union when an airport was to be laid down. Then the national leader said, "Michaelsen, remember, there's no point in fighting to maintain the pool boy at the stadium when there's no game. When you fight for it to be up eight hours a day, it doesn't hang out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1910	Twelve road projects were accelerated as soon as the government change was a fact. 13 road projects had simplified planning systems. So 25 projects can be carried out faster just in the first year. In year two, with a new government, the appropriations for planning are increased, so that you get a lot of opportunities accelerated there. One goes from about 200 million. NOK, which was the best piece of labor in government, to SEK 741 million. kr – not because it is in NTP, but because this government has great ambitions. When in 2015 we will reduce the maintenance run for both road and rail, it is not because it is in the NTP, but because this government believes it is important, and because we are ahead of the grant form. While Truls Wickholm has problems with his calculator, it has been a prerequisite for everyone from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left who has mentioned this, that we are laying the foundations of a steady escalation, a steady increase in appropriations. It's a method that the red-green government also chose to use, but they've suddenly forgotten when they're in opposition. In fact, if the budget growth continues as it has for the first two years, we will get well over 100 pst. of NTP achievement. Then we've kept our promise on the government platform, and so we've been able to start a lot of extra projects. It's a little interesting that a member of the Workers' Party first cancels the play that the representative of Bohemia has had in the media, and then cancels the post that the representative of Myrli had in the staging room about everything that the Workers' Party gives the impression that they want, but that obviously doesn't apply. In Railway Station No In 2014, the railway director in the east, Per Herman Sørlie, was quoted. At that time the budget proposal from the red-greens had been presented: he said: ‘The largest draft maintenance budget we received for 2014 was almost catastrophic.’ Then, fortunately, a new government changed it. It shows that even under the new NTP, which the Labour Party boasts of, is theirs, but as the whole of the Stortinget has decided, they made it clear that there was no need to raise any level of maintenance in the budget they provided until they left off. They did not allow the change of pace that you have seen to take place with today's government. One failed to overfill its NTP. One added up to a redemption of about 22 pst. in one year. That would be 88 pst. redemption if one had kept it level over four years. It's when one actually sees that it makes a difference who governs the country. And there's also a difference in the results. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have said that maintenance is important. That's what we give priority to. We have said that it is important to build the country for our common living and working regions. That's why we've increased the appropriations far beyond what was foreseen in the national transport plan, and even more than what the red-green government put up in its last budget before they left off. That's why I think drivers all over the country notice this difference. I actually received complaints from some Labour Party politicians in North Norway that we were asphalting too much way before we were going to drive on the E6. It was just to boast, but it was actually ordered long before the trip was planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1926	The representative Nils Aage Igstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1930	The representative, Wickholm, claimed that he had to call the Workers' Party to see if there were any projects going on in Oslo and Akershus. He didn't have to do that, he could have talked to me, because I know about all the projects that are going on in Oslo and Akershus. My point is, at what point are we actually going to start giving money to this? Point 1: We need an urban environment agreement. That's the first thing that needs to be put in place, and it's now going to be in place in 2015. Point 2: We need projects to be built. The new and joyous thing about this budget is that you actually open up to be able to allocate money for planning. In addition, I think I should remind the Workers' Party that they were not in favour of the development of infrastructure in the major cities in the previous period. It is only now that they have come to the conclusion that they will cover a certain part of the costs. I think that should be an unnecessary explanation round, because there should actually be a certain connection between what you pay and what you plan to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1939	This is a transport budget that takes great and important steps to build our country. It shows a powerful government that delivers what we promised the voters in the election campaign. When I travel around the Northland and talk to business operators and other residents, there is a clear feedback I get: make sure to build infrastructure, give us safe and affordable roads so we can reach the market with our goods. For Northern Ireland, the third or fourth largest exporting country in Norway, the implementing power shown by the government is particularly important by investing in the development of transport. Being in government means taking responsibility. I don't know what kind of responsibility the red-greens felt at the time they sat in the government offices, but at least they didn't sit down without showing the initiative that the current planning processes were involved in leading to more projects being delayed, and that it would be wise to think new. This government also demonstrates action here and will look at other solutions to solve the planning processes, which will both simplify and improve the processes in the future so that we get a faster and more comprehensive deployment of infrastructure. We ensure optimal progress, accelerate and take important decisions to ensure that the country has a necessary infrastructure promise. For Nordland, this means a lot to the budget for transport. It is the county that has the largest maintenance seat drivage on the county roads after the red-green politicians left the highways to the county – a aftermath that last year was estimated at 7.8 billion. kr. For Northern Ireland alone, this direct investment represents 142.3 million. kr to county roads. I am pleased that, with this great effort, we can be'spoiled with' roadwork in several places in our long-term state. I am also pleased that the government maintains and strengthens the system of interest compensation for the states, which the red-greens would remove. Another important project waiting for a solution is a new airport in Mo in Rana. Here the government has decided not to implement KVU and KS1. This will ensure a faster planning process and good progress in the work of a new airport. This initiative will increase road safety and accessibility for citizens and will increase the predictability and accessibility of businesses for their goods. Another project I have to take with me is the E6 Helgeland North. That's where we remove one of the toll stations. Tolls are of course also a tax, and we're reducing it, but then maybe it's also a tax on the rich, as the Workers' Party likes to call it? No, we're betting on the construction of Northland, we're betting on the construction of the country, and we're doing that with both thinking new and building new.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1956	I'll keep talking about Leirin. The traffic and charter bet on Leirin is about to take off. There are increasing traffic figures, and a huge effort has been made by travel lives, by rapporteurs, by regional councils and other fires that have really got involved and done something. This is precisely why it becomes so frustrating that the process somehow stops, and that the job done is not allowed to be completed. You get a sense of being stopped just before the jump edge when you're about to take off, and it's clear that it's frustrating. So a visit to the representative Michaelsen, who accused me of lacking understanding. I can confirm that there is a lot about the blue-blue policy I don't understand at all that you can suggest. It is tempting to return that claim, because I understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party may not listen most to the Workers' Party here in the world. I can live with that. But here there has been cross-political agreement across Uppland. All parties have stood for this, including in Buskerud. There has been a clear requirement that the route be maintained and that the state ownership be there to obtain predictability. I myself was at Leirin a short time ago, perhaps not surprisingly with the representative Myrli, and it was clearly said that it is clear that it is challenging to maintain an aerodrome without routes and state ownership. It's not like there's a lot of wealthy people in Valdres in line to take over ownership of an airport. I also heard that the representative Michaelsen said that Leirin would be given flexibility. Well, we'll give them security. I have some bad experience of the use of the word ‘flexibility’ by the Right People and the Advance Party people – which often means insecurity and unforeseeableness. I also sincerely hope that the charter bet will continue, but we have listened to travel and business that have said that predictability is important. If you are to succeed in attracting tour operators, you need predictability. I can't understand how it's going to be fulfilled when you create an application-based scheme, which many airports can attend and apply for, without that pot – as far as I can see – being thought of increasing. My fear is that the predictability and the security you need are at stake. I think it's to gamble with something that's very important for both Valdres and Hallingdal. We need travel life, it's one of our biggest industries. That's why I think it's a pity that the majority today is going to vote against the very good proposals of the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1971	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1974	I thank you for a good debate. Although it is not as long as it was in the old days, I think it has sometimes been a good debate. I would like to mention a few moments that are mentioned in the note form in the setting. This concerns the need for starting materials on the E39 Schei–Björset, where I hope that it is possible to find a solution, so that it does not fail and that you do not start the effort, which is important. The same thing applies to rv. 70 and a bottleneck a few miles from Tingvoll to Meisingset. I also hope that it is possible to find solutions for it, so that you can get started. It's a bottleneck, as I said, that's important. On the E6 from Grong to Nordland border there is proposed planning. That's very good. I hope that it is possible to speed it up, because, like North Norway, the Namdalen was hit by a differentiated employer's fee. There's a need to do something. Finally, E6 Helgeland: Implement Helgeland South as soon as possible, so that the road package can be completed as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1987	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1990	It was almost a little sweet to hear the representative of Hofstad Helleland use climate as an argument to shut down the flight route to Leirin, a two-day flight route. But it's clear, when you don't have any other arguments, you look for them – I get it. The route to Leirin is dropped, and the majority say that one should assess the state’s ownership of the airport – that is, assess whether the airport should no longer be part of Avinor’s network. Who is it that has asked Avinor to cut out the operation on Leirin? I haven't met anyone. So we can ask ourselves the question: is it going to be easier or more difficult to operate a charter if the airport is taken out of Avinor's network, and there is uncertainty about future operating modes? I understand that we speak for deaf ears, but one may not expect better either. I heard the representative Åse Michaelsen compare the airport with a beer shop, and that basically says everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e1999	When I travel around my home country, Uppland, it strikes me that the urban development that is taking place mainly at Beitostølen and Hafjell. It's shit stations, and they're both car-based. Obviously, there are possibilities here. The possibilities could be further enhanced by regular services on Leirin, but the most important thing is to ensure the development of the charter. When the Red-Greens talk about predictability, I have to draw up yet another victory for the Left in the transport policy, as we see in this budgetary agreement, which can provide opportunities for a solid green rise in Uppland and Hedmark. I am talking about the tax exemption for biodiesel that has now been reintroduced. A biodiesel levy was introduced in the 2010 budget, and there have been five years of decline in the production of alternative fuels in Norway. We have missed out on emission reductions, and we have missed out on a new industry in the interior. For a forest and wood industry that screams at its potential, at least this tax exemption represents opportunities for aviation, and the transport policy we are now developing will provide significant opportunities for inland states and can contribute to lower emissions and more jobs. I look forward to pursuing a predictable transport policy and a predictable charging policy, which means that we transform the fuel policy into more climate friendly by getting more emissions reductions. The car is not the big challenge for us, but in the districts the car is for most people a necessity. This means that fewer people may have a bad conscience to use the car when you are given the opportunity to use fuel that gives lower emissions, including in the districts. As the electric car is designed today, it has the greatest potential in the big cities. Here, it's important to focus on the green possibilities, the green ups and predictability, and that's what we're going to do to help with the bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2010	When I went to the pulpit, Mr. Ketil Solvik-Olsen had demanded NOK 9 185 000 from Norwegian drivers. They probably don't take that as a direct follow-up to the election vows of Solvik-Olsen. Solvik-Olsen accuses the Workers' Party and Eirin Sund of cancelling the promises made to various representatives. That, of course, is not true. Had Solvik-Olsen listened to the debate and not only followed Twitter, he would have noticed. The one who's had his policy canceled is the Solvik-Olsen. He promised Norwegian drivers to eliminate tolls. He has demanded 9 1850 000 kroner. He promised Norwegian drivers that he would use 50 billion kroner. kr more on the road this year. He hasn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2015	In the light of the opposition's posts now this afternoon, I want to go back a little bit to this morning, then it still comes up with almost some sort of lyric exchange. Then I got the idea that ‘it’s all about the money’ – or rather, ‘it’s not’. Because that's actually not necessarily the sum this is about. With the sums we're operating on in a budget as large as this, it's actually the most important way of spending money. Then I want to put the search light on the Ferens-Oslo flight. First of all, the government has not proposed to shut down the airport of Fenders, but we have proposed to shut down the Feners-Oslo flight, and said that it means we can't carry on in the same way as we do today. Passenger numbers have been falling in the last ten years, and there are now an average of three passengers per flight. The state’s incentive to purchase the flight ticket is NOK 3290 per single ticket from the Payers to Oslo. It goes without saying that this is no good administration and no good use of government money. That said, it was previously mentioned here that one couldn't imagine how one had thought this would work out, and that we wanted to meet with the travel life of Valdres. It was previously referred by a central party representative today to the model that no one has heard of before. We have, after all, many other airports around Norway that are driven in ways other than through the Avinor model. So the answer to the representative has to be that it's just to look around. This government has now arranged for operations with State operating intent. In fact, I have great faith that local or private can operate well, and travel life in Valdres has so far shown great creativity and good ability to organize its own region. I have great faith that they will be able to benefit now when the state secures what is most important, simply to facilitate charter traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2030	State Council Solvik-Olsen is trying again today on a bluff about the level of taxation of the Workers' Party and is trying to make it a fun one. He did the same on Monday, in a line change during the financial debate. There I was not given the opportunity to answer him, so I am so glad that he got into it today too, because there is no doubt that the minister needs to get it in again. In fact, this is the way – and now the Minister is following closely – that the Workers' Party is at the tax level that we had in 2013 and that we promised our voters. Despite that, we can afford to spend over 1.5 billion. kr more on the road than the Advance Party. We have also used more for the municipalities and municipalities, so they can also give more priority to roads, yes, we will even compensate for the tax failure in 2014, which will have a major impact on well-being. I rather think the minister should overtake his Party calculator.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2035	I come from Uppland, and Oppland is a state where business is totally dependent on communication. It is a long road, especially from the north of the county to the markets where the goods are to be delivered. The industry in Gudbrandsdalen in particular is struggling, but there is now new optimism in the region. We see with joy that it is being invested and that it is being built. Business shows new willingness to invest, and we see growth. This power of action is joyous. Not only are we building new roads, but we have many other roads that we're running on, which are bad, and now we've got a budget that makes maintenance on many of these roads so big that the decay stops, while building new roads. That's exactly what we need. The railway operation on the Gjøvik Railway is good for that region. The railways in the Norddalen have also received something new that is important for the county – it has been given a loading space for timber. The timber industry, forestry, in the county is important, but there is a marginal industry that is struggling to make the bottom line go up. Much of the forest is inaccessible, it has to be taken down by cableway and then transported down to the road. This is expensive, and it's difficult. With this government we have got a new investment on forest roads, which has been received with great joy. We've been given a transfer place for timber in the Gudbrand valley, which means you get to their markets, to the sawmill, with the timber logging, and it means that the industry will now be investing in taking out the forest that has not been profitable before. The industry is in strong competition with Sweden, and this makes it more optimistic, so that we can also win market shares there. The case users are part of this industry. They also compete with Sweden, especially in the West, so that we get new roads where driving is cheaper is very important for the industry. We're not happy in toll stations, and I talked to someone who runs a case that said that if one toll station on his way to the northwest, it's enough that he can get his bottom line up. So I hope that will happen -- that you reduce the cost of using these new and good roads. But there's new optimism in Uppland, we see that it's bet, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2046	The representative, Roy Steffensen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2049	I record that there are several representatives who are very concerned about discussing tolls, which I am very pleased about, because it gives me another opportunity to explain our primary position. The progress party is opposed to tolls. We have fought against tolls for years without being heard, without getting through and without the drivers having noticed any difference. With the Progress Party in government, we've got tolls cleared. We have removed seven toll projects. We have reduced the tariffs in a further 13, and more people are in the loop when the toll reform and the interest compensation system are in place. Yes, we have to vote for tolls, but these are tolls that would have come anyway. Last summer, the bulk of population adopted an NTP adding up to an increase of 97 billion. kr in tolls for the next ten years – such an increase that the centre party had to ask questions about how much toll they had actually decided for the next ten years, because they had no control. With the Progress Party in the government, we make a difference, we get reduced toll debt to the benefit of Norwegian drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2060	The representative, Magne Rommetvei, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2063	As far as I know, there is now more tolling than ever before, so it's with the Progress Party in government and with the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport. I understand that the state council was a bit indignant when one here in the hall was talking about the ownership of NTP – that this was an NTP that Stortinget had agreed to. It's great that Solvik-Olsen sort of sees it like that, but I was in the hall when we decided he did, and I think that Solvik-Olsen, even if he was behind me, voted against it. The progress party voted for its own, which then had 500 billion. kr more – and the Right also voted for its own. It was the red-green parties that voted in favour of the NTP as a debt, but at the same time I thought it was great that the council said it was the Stortingen's NTP, because it's the one that owes it. So to the extent that one continues to follow it, it's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2070	I would like to thank you for a good debate. We have been given authority when the Storting has made these decisions, to have a very good commitment on the road, on the railways, on the coast, on aviation, on broadband and on telecommunications in general. There are many good opportunities here, but politics is not just about how much money is allocated, although the opposition seems to mean it. It's about what the system uses for the way we organize, how we can get the right incentives to build more roads faster and at a lower cost. The actual implementation of the projects is actually more important than who has given the most money to them. I would rather send some of the farms to buy a given quantity of goods and know that they come home with a change of money, than that they boast that they used everything and come home with only half of the goods from the list. We're in 2014. Therefore, it is worth mentioning, when the Workers' Party is now living in 2013 and says that they have not raised the tax level in its alternative budget, that compared with the budget we have today, and with the budget we are proposing for 2015, the Workers' Party is proposing to increase the tax by between 10 and 13 and 16 billion. kr, depending on how a rains. It would therefore be more expensive for drivers to drive on Norwegian roads, and there would be more toll if the Workers' Party had been given control, than when today's government got control. So it's true that there's never been any more toll than now. That is the consequence of the toll projects launched by the red-green government, of which this government has removed several. In Finnmark there is a toll station in Alta. It will save business and the population of Alta for over 0.5 billion. NOK the next 15 years. It is a significant tax relief that strengthens local business and local economy, similar in many other places. We've accelerated the road project, and we're going to speed up more. It's inside. We've implemented changes that cut in planning time, and it's going to happen more of that. We are increasing the appropriations to plan more road projects, precisely because we are also going to implement more road projects. Much of what we have now discussed, the decay of the red-green government that is now beginning to decrease, was not in the NTP, but it happens because we have a completely different focus than the previous government. NTP is a leading star, and it should be like this when we adopt broad settlements. Then there are some more ambitious parties. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party were more ambitious and are obviously more ambitious. That's why it's going to be realized much more than planned. Then I'm very happy that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party are actually fighting to support the government when we do this. But it's not a matter of course. And we see that from the previous NTP. One had great ambitions relating to bicycle paths, but one carried out 73 pst. of it a promised. One carried out many road projects, but more than 20 of them were severely delayed, and therefore it is not just to say that the plans are there, but it is about implementing them. There is a good start to this government and this majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2085	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2088	The right-hand Party Government stops the maturity of this budget. We'll pick up the lag again, we'll be on track with NTP, and we'll start up all the projects next year. It has been said by a workers' party representative that this was a very short debate on transportation, that it did not use to be so. Then you can have different interpretations about the reason for that. It is not certain that the opposition agrees with me, but I interpret it as that the opposition is muted by admiration for this budget for transport, and that that is why there was no more debate today. I look forward to further and good cooperation in the transport committee also next year. We are facing major and important transport projects that we are going to deal with here at Stortinget. This budget gives us a very good starting point, and then I thank you for a very good debate and participation from many of the big ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2097	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2111	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2120	The representative proposal from representatives Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Bård Vegar Solhjell proposes a new investigation related to the development of the E18 West corridor and its impact on air quality and greenhouse gas emissions. A unanimous committee has rejected the proposal for a representative and requests that the project E18 West Corridor be implemented. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and for its clear speech. While the Committee's conclusion does not mean that the climate aspect is immaterial, the Committee considers that it has already been identified, and the conclusion is that the project has positive elements that make it positive in terms of local climate emissions, especially noise and dust. The Committee stresses that the E18 West Corridor is one of the main routes to Oslo, with annual traffic of 90000. The stretch has the biggest rush time delay in the Oslo area, with the greatest delay towards Oslo in the morning. There are more than 100 buses per hour over the Lysaker River, both morning and afternoon, of which approx. 10 pst. are regional express buses. New E18 is therefore a very important measure both for the promotion of the bus and for a better neighbourhood along one of the country’s most busy road sections. Attention is also paid to the accessibility of commercial transport. The Committee would point out that the new route will provide significant improvements for the local environment in terms of both noise and pollution. The bus gets its own way through the entire corridor, and so do the cyclists. They shall be able to ride safely and safely from Sandvika all the way into Oslo Centre. The proposers make a point of talking about many fields in Bærum. However, it must be borne in mind that Bærum is the country's sixth most populous municipality, with about a quarter of its population. 118 000 inhabitants and a significant number of jobs. It makes the E18 through Bærum a road with high transit traffic and equally a local road. The Committee would point out that the project facilitates traffic on the local roads in Bærum and facilitates urban and urban development on the route between Asker and Bærum. This, together with better accessibility for other public transport, will help more people to travel collectively. It will include, among others: new connection from E18 to Fornebu, where buses and cars today are in line much of the day. The new E18 gets six continuous fields plus its own two-field bus path. Today's E18 has five fields plus one collective field inward towards Oslo. By better distinguishing local and transit traffic, it will provide sufficient capacity and avoid traffic from both E18, which has four fields, and E16, which have four fields. When E18 enters Oslo, traffic will split between Ring 3 and E18. The E18 West Corridor is located within the NTP with a route from Lysaker to Ramstadsletta starting in this four-year period and a proposed 10 billion. SEK, of which SEK 2,2 billion. kr is State resources. But it's worth noting that of the 10 billion. kr is 2 billion. VAT. However, I would like to point out that last year, at the budgetary procedure, the Stortinget requested that the routes both in Bærum and in Asker be planned as a whole. The work is in progress in both municipalities, and the municipal plan through Bærum has been adopted. Ashes are also about to complete their plans. The E18 is one of the main projects in Oslopackakt3, and from 2008 an additional cut-off was made in the Oslo-Bærum border to collect money for the project. That means the drivers from the west are already paying 15 kroner in the bomb section. The major renegotiation of Oslopackak 3 in 2012 agreed to make E18 a stretch project with a contribution of 5.4 billion. kr from Oslopackakt 3 and to establish new bomb sections after the road section has finished. There is therefore a matter for the Stortinget about the organisation and financing of the project. One is concerned about the costs, and they are too big. However, I would like to point out that at a possible cost of 40 billion. So $8 is going to be $8 billion. kr to VAT, plus a calculated interest rate of 6,5 pst. The size decided in 2012 to increase VAT on the road project from 1 January 2013. This in itself increased the cost of this project by 5 billion. kr. We have a proposal for a decision which requires that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes, and I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2146	The traffic growth of the future in the area must be taken collectively. That is why public transport needs to be expanded, and this must be done by the State. For 30 years it has been working to find solutions to traffic challenges in Oslo and Akershus. We got Oslopakket 1, Oslopakket 2 and Oslopakket 3. We got the Mountain Line, and we got a new main road network. We got new T-Bahn lines, new tram lines and new bus routes. We got double tracks from Ski to Moss. We got the Gardermoban and a new double track to Asker. And now comes the Folloban. Oslopackakt 3 is a major plan for the development of road and collective projects in Oslo and Akershus, which brings together a broad political majority in both counties. The growth of traffic in the future must be taken collectively. Therefore, the deployment of the T-Bahn network in Oslo is necessary. A new railway tunnel is needed in Oslo. Fornebubane, a course for Oslo University Hospital, Aarhus and on to Lillestrøm and Kjeller – are necessary to mention something. But it is also necessary to complete important road links in and around the capital. Let me mention the E6 from Minnesund and northwards, where it's now full activity, the E18 through Follo, where there's some left over, rv. 4 in Nittedal, E16 between Klöfta and Kongswinger, get motorway standard on the whole route, E16 direction Ringerijk and E18. Let me make it clear that all the roads I have now mentioned are not new roads to be built. In all of these places it is about building better roads where there is currently too poor capacity and too poor standard, even in the case of E18. E18 is part of Oslopackak 3. Let me also make it clear that the entire Oslopacket 3 has been examined in the draft. The working party is for the new E18. The size should not now do anything that delays the work that is in good hands. It's urgent to build a new road. It should probably have been built already.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2161	The size is good to adopt nice goals. Today we have a situation where we are going to deal with a matter that concerns whether we follow the objectives of concrete matters. Firstly, the Storting has decided that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway should go down significantly. Secondly, I think everyone in this room might agree that breathing should not be dangerous. But that's actually the way it is in the Oslo area. In winter, families with asthmatic infants are advised to stay indoors, and air is harmful to health today – above the limit values in the Air Quality Directive for nitrogen oxides not only in single days but also over time. ESA has warned the government against this earlier this year. I would like to remind you that the desire for safe and non-toxic air is an important reason why we in this Chamber have agreed that the growth of passenger traffic in the metropolitan areas of Norway should include collective, bicycle and gangways. The planned deployment of the E18 West Corridor will provide both more traffic and increased emissions. What we least need in the Oslo area now is six new car fields towards the city. The expansion will have a total of 12 lanes to six today, and the expansion will take place – more than 40 billion. kr. Someone claims the extension will make the bus appear easier. Then I have to say that it will be the most expensive bus file in Norwegian history. I understand that people and party in this hall will end up standing in line and stamping. Then we have to be creative and look at the food package running that is taking place today. But we have to stop thinking that we can solve traffic problems in a metropolitan area by building more and more capacity on the roads. I notice that the Ministry of Transport believes that this does not mean an increase in capacity towards Oslo. In any case, there is no doubt that there is an increase in capacity in the Oslo area. I will site Aud Tennøy at the Transport Economics Institute: ‘With such a violent increase in road capacity, we will have reduced queues for a period of time. Then more people who can choose between cars or collectively choose to drive a car because it is faster». In addition, she says: ‘One of the reasons we haven’t had growth in car traffic is precisely the queues on the roads. It's the best traffic-reducing tool we have, to get people onto bicycles and collectives. I am willing to bet a lot of money on the fact that car traffic in Oslo and Akershus is going to go straight to the weather again if there is a new motorway." In an interview on June 18th this year, the City Council in Oslo says that the E18 project must be considerably slimmed down. The councillor in Akershus has repeatedly called for this. That is what we have tried to follow up on in this draft representative. SV has not been against Oslopackak 3 and against finding good solutions for the road past Sandvika, where the environmental impact is great. But the last overall frame of Oslopackak 3 was signed in 2012, too much for a road package. If we are to achieve our goals in the field of transport policy, the big money has to go to collectives, multiple T-courses and, not least, new railway tunnels rather than greater road capacity. For the E18 we are to find solutions for better noise protection, own bike tracks and related bus fields, where the bus can run faster than today. On the other hand, the size prints for a massive expansion of E18, where there are especially cars that are being prioritised, and that means that SV is turbulent. The Committee writes that they want the buses to be easier to get around, and we in SV are concerned about how competitive the buses are when they cannot run on the E18 but are referred to the new local road. I would also like to point out that Akershus County Municipality has asked the State Road Administration to provide better measures for the emergence of buses and commercial transport in the run-up to the completion of the project, as construction time is estimated at 13-14 years. We're worried about the huge increase in costs for all the tunnels that they're going to give. We think it would be a good idea that in evaluating the new E18 there were also assessments of the contribution that the new Colsåsbanen, the new Fornebubane and other road projects will have to say if this road is really wanted and needed. One thing we're sure about: If you don't want more cars, you can't build more capacity on the road. So when the growth in car traffic comes, all the parties in this hall are asking for responsibility. The measures they adopt are fine words, but they are not followed up by action. The result is that we do not meet our climate targets, and we still want harmful air.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2197	The proposal in this case is about implementing a draft parliamentary inquiry into a case that was dealt with by the previous government, of which the proposers were members, and this is therefore a pure rebuttal of decisions taken by the previous government. I don't think that's necessary. A draft selection inquiry was carried out for Oslopackakt3 in 2007. That KVU was quality-secured through the KS1 system and a final report was completed in the summer of 2008. Details of the KVU and the KS1 in St.meld are given. No 17 for 2008-2009, About Oslopackak 3 steps 2. On this basis, it has been assumed that no new KVU is required for projects within the project portfolio that were investigated in the KVU and KS1 for Oslopackakt 3. In addition, a kind of mini-KVU was carried out in connection with the municipal sub-plan work that was done. So now one has had a big KVU and a mini-KVU, and then at least the department assesses it so that there are no demands that one have to implement another KVU, just because one is dissatisfied with the results. I agree that building roads and infrastructure requires good accessibility, reducing environmental emissions and increasing road safety, which is essential. But one does not necessarily solve future infrastructure challenges and transport challenges by not building infrastructure in fear that people will use it – on the contrary. If one is afraid of emissions, we have to keep working on cutting emissions from the vehicles that use the infrastructure. It's about gripping fuel and engine technology. The previous government did a lot in both areas, and today's government does a lot. These include: to facilitate electric cars and hybrid plug-in cars. It's about facilitating biofuels. In this area, the government – and the majority, not least, with the Christian People's Party and the Left as very good supporters – makes it more profitable to use both biogas and biodiesel. My recommendation is that you do not need a KVU, and that you continue to work on the project. It is true that one has local discussions in local authorities and local communities about what is right and correct dimensioning. You don't have to go to the Storting to hold a debate about. Both municipalities and the counties are members of the Oslopacket 3 Steering Group and will be able to channel their views into it, without either the Council of State or the Stortinget giving them guidance signals for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2214	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2217	It almost feels a little strange, because in this case I do much agree with the Minister of Transport. It costs to build roads in the country's densest populated area. New E18 won't be cheap fun, but it's absolutely necessary to build it. When the State Road Administration presented its plans for the E18 development earlier this year, it was up to 30 pst. contributions from the country in the calculations made. It's going to be $5.5. kr from Oslopakset 3, for which the rapporteur-general explained. The rest shall be paid in the form of tolls by the drivers. It's going to be expensive to drive between Asker and Oslo, but it's clear that it depends on how much the state contributes. So even 30 pst. State contributions will therefore be tolls of more than 100 SEK to drive Asker-Oslo return. Tolls can fall sharply if the state increases its contributions. So my question is, when is it going to be clear what is going to be the state's contribution to the development of the E18?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2226	It is the Stortinget that grants money, so it is finally clarified when the Stortinget makes a decision. But there is no doubt that I would like the state's contribution to be greater in many road projects – that is the approach of the Progress Party. So Stortinget has had a different attitude. I have recorded that we have just had a budget debate in which the Workers' Party has been largely critical every time the government has proposed to reduce the toll share in projects and increase the government's share. It's a little strange first to get criticism from the Workers' Party because we cut and remove tolls, and then, in a new case, it's called for whether we can allocate more money to remove or reduce the toll percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2233	I haven't criticized anyone, I've only related to the figures that the State Road Service provided, and the State Road Service had calculated 30 pst. State contribution. If it gets higher, the toll ratio gets lower. If it gets lower, the toll ratio gets higher. There are three elements: contributions from the State, tolls and contributions from the Oslo Package 3. The contribution from Oslopakket 3 is fixed – approx. 5.5 B.C.E. kr. So there's no criticism of anyone, it was more of a question. I am also aware that it is the Stortinget that grants money in Norway, so that was not really my question. The question was more whether the Council of State could say anything about the timetable — what is the timing, when will the government deal with the matter and present it to the Stortinge, and when can decisions be taken on what to contribute to the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2238	Decisions on what will be the state's contribution will be taken when the Stortinget deals with this. We work to ensure that when we get things for political treatment, we promote them as quickly as possible for the Stortinget. This case has not been completed by the management group and the Vegvesenet. That is why it is not easy for me to give any progress plan here either. But we see in other things that we get, that in terms of trasé choices, we've made fast decisions. Where one had matters that had been lying for several years before the government change, decisions were made a few months after the government change. With regard to the decision to move the freight terminal out of Trondheim and out of Bergen, there were discussions that had been going on for many decades. This government spent a few months deciding that we should go on doing just that. I am prepared to find good and fast solutions. Then one must also be able to make decisions locally that give us something to relate to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2246	Some of us have worked long with Oslopackakt 3, including E18 westward. I would say that the problem westwards is not the environmental consequences. That's the cost -- that it costs so much. What matters to the Left is that the priorities are right. It must not be at the expense of T-Bahn to Fornebu or the necessary railway investments, but it is necessary to look at the costs and possible changes in order to bring them down. It is important that environmental measures, i.e.: what is involved in bicycle paths, collective fields, is not what it is cut down on. My question to the Council of State is then: Will the Council of State ensure that the environmental measures are not modified but that they are maintained at the same level of ambition as in the plans currently in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2251	It is obvious from the media that many parties and many local organisations believe that, as is currently the case, the project appears to be very expensive. I also believe that if you want to have a good project, it is important that costs and benefits are somewhat in line. Therefore, it makes sense to take time locally to find the best possible project design for the drivers, for the local environment and for the business community. I do not intend to interfere in that debate, as I get the matter for political consideration later. But I think it is good that you have the discussion going on to get a solution that is as far as possible behind, and that is feasible when the decision is taken. Then it is important that the collection of measures in terms of road, collective, bus, corridors and cycle path be optimised, so as to facilitate the widest possible desire to travel collectively, want to walk and cycle, and get the best possible accessibility, by choosing land-intensive means of transport – no, opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2258	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2261	Because I am a representative of Akershus and of the Left, Oslopackak 3 is important to me. Oslopacket 3 shall ensure good accessibility for all traffic groups and priority public transport, commercial traffic, cycling and walking. All growth in passenger transport is to be taken by public transport, bicycles and corridors. The last is also the goal of the climate agreement and of the cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. This must be an overall objective of the investments we make in the infrastructure of Oslo and Akershus, and this must also apply to the E18 West Corridor. The left, as one of the cooperation parties in Oslopackakt3, therefore expects the E18 project in both states to be adapted to the objectives set for the project and that costs will not be higher than the start of measures promoting cycling, walking and public transport as planned and preferably as early as possible. That being said, the new E18 Western Corridor must be built and this should be done as quickly as possible. This route has the largest rush time delay in the Oslo area. It is for those who commute in this area, daily queue, cork and chaos, and with over 100 buses per hour above Lysaker River in the rush hour it is important to ensure better availability for the bus. The left has also wanted a separate environmental field reserved for electric cars, interconnectors, etc. to be established. on the route, so that we can limit the growth of passenger transport and take advantage of the new investment to achieve the objectives of Oslopacket 3 and the climate agreement. The idea is that a separate environmental field does not need to be reserved for electric cars, as it is today, it is possible to assume that such an environmental field can be used by both plug-in hybrid cars and other low-emission cars, so as to make better use of road capacity, and not least that those using low-emission cars or zero-emission cars are also promoted. At the same time, we know that the situation on that distance of E18, as it is today, is completely irresponsible. For those who travel by bus, there is quite a bit of prosperity going into Oslo, although there are large bottlenecks here as well. But if you're on your way by bus, it's not your own collective field, so here you have a big need. We know that the cost framework for the E18 over the years has had a formidable growth, and we are committed to being able to minimise costs as much as possible, but the overall cost for the Left is that the costs are no higher than the implementation of measures that promote cycling, walking and public transport as planned and that this is preferably done as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2270	The E18 development, the West Corridor, as it is now planned, is an outstanding example of the wrong answer to an important question. Firstly, as we have had in previous debates today, we really have a clear consensus and a clear commitment through the climate agreement that increased traffic growth to the big cities should be taken with public transport, not with increased road construction. It's not going to get away from the fact that increasing road capacity into Oslo will generate more car traffic. So you get the exact result that there is a broad political consensus that you have to avoid. You get that for a 40-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr, while we have not even started the planning of completely decisive collective solutions in Oslo of the type T-bahntunell, railway tunnel, which has an impact on the whole of the central eastern region, far beyond the meaning of the E18 corridor. The reason for the E18 development is worth considering – it is claimed that this is a delay problem that is not to live with, and the reason for this delay problem is the amount of car generated by road capacity. I took as late as today, as I do very often, the bus through Bærum and along this road into Oslo. The bus's fine, it's fine. The allegations about the problems of public transport on this road are greatly exaggerated. Other considerations that justify this approach are also quite specific, such as: the claims concerning the effect of car traffic on the local roads of Asker and Bærum, which otherwise generate a very large proportion of the traffic on which it operates and which is to enter, E18. It's claimed that an extension of E18 will relieve Asker and Bærum, but the ratio is, of course, the exact opposite. The car traffic that studies the entire Bærum every morning is generated by traffic going to – and from afternoon to – E18, and a larger E18 will generate more traffic on already crowded roads in the municipalities around this city. So it's going to have a real opposite effect of what the Committee has as an important reason for building this path. I hope that this is one of the last times that Stortinget has chosen solutions that are contrary to the long-term objectives that the Stortinget itself has adopted for transport development in Norway, and that this is the last time that we until those degrees use poorly thought out arguments for such an extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2279	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2282	In Oslo and Akershus, it has been possible to agree on the major transport projects. With the exception of Akershus Promskrittsparti, all parties in Oslo and Akershus stood behind Oslopack 3. After the renegotiation two years ago, SV and the Progress Party jumped off, but still there is a large majority for transport policy on both sides of the blocs. It ensures both more public transport and better roads. It's a compromise where everyone has got their most important things done, and where you took a lot of different considerations. The big winner here is, of course, the population, who, in total, got better infrastructure. Many of the projects have already been opened. New routes have arrived, the prices of public transport are frozen, and not least we have been able to open the Colza Railway again a few weeks ago – an important environmental voyage that enables many thousands of people to travel by road and get in and out of town as easily as possible. Much of the policy that has been pursued in the transport sector in Oslo and Akershus has been very successful. There has been no increase in passenger traffic in and out of Oslo since 2007. We shall continue that policy. It is true, as many have already said from this pulpit, that all the growth in traffic through Oslo is going to happen through public transport, and it is going to be a huge increase in the number of people living in Oslo and Akershus. It says something about the enormous amount of effort needed in public transport if all growth is to be made through public transport. This had not been possible without Oslopackack 3, nor had there been any Oslopackak 3 without the E18 being a central part of the package. Now, money from the tolling system also goes to public transport and to bicycle routes. The population of Asker and Bærum would hardly have been willing to participate in financing Oslopackak 3 twice, as they do by paying double tolls, if not E18 was part of the project. It's true, as Sverre Myrli said earlier today, that it's not about any new motorway; it's about a motorway that's already there, and that road is bad. It is among the most trafficked in all of Norway, and it plagues people with noise and local air pollution. This has therefore been one of the most important priorities over many years for both the municipality and the county. A new E18 shall facilitate more public transport. This is the stretch of the country which has the greatest delays in public transport. In the new projects, both the bus and the cyclists will have their own field. It is an important part of facilitating more environmentally friendly commuting trips into and out of Oslo. The project is well planned, it has broad support. If you shake the E18, you rock the whole consensus on the transport policy in Oslo and Akershus, and no one has served it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2295	The inhabitants of Asker and Bærum and everyone else who uses the E18 West corridor are pleased that there is now finally light in the tunnel for the new E18, and that the start of the first construction stage may be possible as early as 2016. SV in Akershus has for a long time tried to rematch this case. They have this year bombarded the locals in the county, and in particular Asker and Bærum Budstikke, with similar readings, where they claim that new E18 will be an expensive giant road that does not solve traffic challenges in the region. It also claims that the road will be an environmental disaster, and that governments will have to turn around and spend money on pedestrian and bicycle routes and public transport. It's true, as SV says, we can never build ourselves completely out of queues, but it's going to be total chaos if we don't do anything. Queue and delay on the E18 West Corridor have great ringing effects for many, not just for those living in the area. In other places in the country, the cost is high when the goods do not arrive in time because of the bottleneck in the capital region. The E18 West Corridor is Norway’s most trafficked road, so it is so important that this route is now finally given priority and that its implementation is not delayed. It must be built for the future in an area of great growth. I feel that the SV in this proposal for a representative is trying to train and postpone the development of E18, when they will again ask for a draft committee inquiry before deciding on the financing of the development. I'm asking, how many investigations are you going to have? Is it strange that it takes a long time to build roads in this country? Conceptal investigations and impact studies have been carried out in the context of Oslopackak 3 and a complete impact assessment has been carried out in connection with the Municipal Plan for E18 in Asker and Bærum, as required by the Planning and Building Act. The State Road Service recommends implementing the long-term extension of E18. They have been working on this project for years, and the plans available are both scientifically and professionally justified. I am pleased that SV will not be able to endorse and support this proposal, that the Committee will follow up on what is contained in Oslopack3 and that there will be no new delays. E18 must be built as soon as possible. We're in a hurry to get a new road. E18 is a prerequisite for meeting the future growth of transport needs. In addition, the new E18 is in fact also an environmental project that ensures the promotion of commercial traffic, reduces environmental disadvantages for those living along the road, and provides the basis for urban development. The Storting climate agreement says that the growth of passenger traffic is to be taken by public transport, corridors and bicycles. The E18 project facilitates this, with its own bus and cycle path throughout the route. Most of us realize that we still have to build roads in both Akershus and elsewhere in the country. Increased population growth increases both the need for movement and the need for transport of benefits. But luckily, we've got more environmentally friendly cars with lower emissions and zero emissions. That's why it's thanks to both the road and the track. Collective action must be strengthened and pedestrian paths and bicycle tracks must be built. And here, Right agrees with SV – more people and more goods have to go on track. Therefore, it is gratifying that we have now received a budget for the transport sector that equips Transport Norway for the future. There is a great boost for collective action, increased appropriations for road and rail and pedestrian and cycle routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2308	The real issue is whether a new KVU should be investigated, and we agree that you do not need to, because this is determined up to several times. There have also been past the municipal sub-plans, and the regulatory plans are now under way. However, I would like to point out that some changes have been made to the project since it was in Oslo and Akershus. There have also been some quality improvements, not least on the collective side, although I'm not so sure whether it helps to reduce the total price. There is a great difference between using collective fields and using a collective path. The disadvantage of collective fields is that they are broken in every cross. The advantage of the bus route is that it can go continuously, independently of any other traffic. But it's probably a cost-effective element to use that variant over the collective field. So it's that in this plan, there's added up to a lot of back-up solutions in case the tunnels were to stop. It's also looked at the Road Service, and you've reduced the number of fields by four in the intersections. There are a lot of fields in the intersections, because you have to connect the local road system with the main road. The E18 has six fields today and will be six fields tomorrow. There's not six new fields that add up to twelve – there's six fields. But it's like today that there's a collective field inwards, and that's why the bus goes so well. Besides, it's not a collective field. This solution is now crunched so well that it should satisfy most needs. About 30 pst. the costs are collective actions. There are 100 buses per hour above the Lysaker River in the rush hour, and the bus is also the largest public transport vehicle in Oslo – we should not forget that. So having adventurism for the bus is incredibly important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2319	Nobody knows the details of this matter better than the representative Igstad, and I fully agree with what he says. The project design is not the problem. It is not the environmental impact of development that is negative — on the contrary, it is positive, because much better measures are being taken for public transport in the area. The problem is with regard to costs, and that's where you have to look at how to find the practical solutions to move on. I think it's a little strange to listen to the rhetoric from both the Greens and the SV, because what is the basis for the entire public transport effort in Oslo and Akershus, from the early 2000s, is Oslopakket 3. There is a broad consensus that has been developed locally in Oslo and Akershus to get a formidable bet on public transport, which is the basis of the successful offer we have today. This has gone against both the SV and the Greens. Without Oslopackakt 3, public transport collapses in Oslo and Akershus. In the next few years there will be 85 pst. the flow of money from bombing in Oslo to collective and environmental action. It is a solid package that is absolutely essential to have the offer you have today, and to drive forward a development in the years to come. This is built on a broad consensus that also includes the upgrade of the E18 westward, which it is necessary to upgrade. It's about getting this funded by toll stations and in such a way that you get an upgrade, and at the same time you get the necessary collective measures. What is crucial is that it does not go at the expense of the large collective efforts that we must have, that is. T-Bahn to Fornebu. In the city there is an upgrade of the tramline network that is a necessity, and of course the railway operation that you have to have in the region. It's not right that there's no plans going on. In the case of planning to look at new railway tunnels and new railway tunnels, work is in progress. There comes the first thing in the spring. It's a good collaboration with local and national authorities, so we have the same thoroughness there to drive the processes forward. Oslopackak 3 is a necessity, that's the very basis for us to make the bet that we have. It is important to maintain the broad consensus that can drive this forward. The E18 westward is part of this, and this is about how we are going to implement it in a way that is economically feasible, and with the environmental objectives that are also in the plans. There is no reason to go back and start with a new KVU.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2332	The representative Aukrust said here that it was a ‘art piece’ that large parts of the Oslo and Akershus politicians were able to become a few about Oslopackak 3. It is true that it is often demanding to make cross-political settlements, but what still characterises Norwegian policy is that we often do it. What turns out to be a real piece of art in Norwegian politics, on the other hand, is to agree on something that actually leads to a sufficient reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to maintain the commitments that this whole hall is behind. The big problem with Oslopackakt 3 is that our best professionals have established that Oslopackakt 3 is not in the vicinity of leading to the decline in emissions and transport in the Oslo region that we are forced to get from environmental concerns, from business considerations and from people's concerns. Urban Analysis, one of our leading transport analysis agencies, delivered a report on this in 2013, where they went through Oslopackak 3 and other urban packages. What is the conclusion? Yes, Oslopackakt 3, as agreed, will lead to an increase in car traffic of about 50 pst. – they listened correctly: about 50 pst. By 2030. But misunderstand me correctly: there is a lot of good in Oslopackakt 3, for one said that without Oslopackakt 3, the traffic will increase by 80 pst. So Oslopack 3 is an improvement. SV participated in Oslopackakt 1, and we participated in the negotiations in Oslopackakt 3, with a view to becoming a few, but at my best discretion Oslopackakt 3 is not good enough when we know today that it will lead to a change in the wrong direction. I respect the fact that the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee sees that there is a lot of good there, but he cannot pretend that Oslopack 3 will solve the transport challenges in the Oslo region, when our best evidence from skilled professionals puts reports on the table that actually say the opposite. So I also think – and it’s a major challenge – that we don’t have a completed KVU for what may be the largest transportation project, the road project, for a very long time – at least one of the biggest, although not all parts are planned – and we had been able to address the cost question, such as. Oslo City Council has addressed better than what we are doing in this room now. I am disappointed that no more are supporting the proposal, but I respect that it is. It is a major challenge for Norway that the sum of many well-intentioned decisions, which often go a little in the right direction in the cities of Norway, is not in the vicinity of following the transport policy that will lead to the necessary conversion. Even if we have started – in 2013 emissions in the transport sector fell for the first time – there is a great deal left to get the transport sector turned around sufficiently in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2342	It was shown to KVU for Oslopackakt 3, of which E18 is a part, which was completed in 2007. At that time, the Ministry of Transport considered that a separate KVU was not necessary only for the West Corridor. Today we have had some major discussions about very small sums in the state budget on the transport side. We've talked a lot about half a billion, we've talked about a few million. Like Elvesuen and Hansson, we in SV are also busy with the great costs of this road as well as air quality, environment and climate. That's why we wanted to try to have a separate KVU for the E18 West Corridor – an arrangement that shows us about 40 billion. NOK for motorways is really well spent money, or if we could get other measures out of this, which would have been better use of so much money. The committee management didn't give us that, and that's what we're disappointed in. The environmental movement and those who have participated in the many popular actions outside the house, who have fought in this fight, are probably also a little disappointed, but I can promise that SV will continue to raise these kinds of things, so that the decisions we make in the individual cases should be similar to the major fundamental decisions we make on what kind of development we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2349	When looking at and assessing the impact of Oslopackakt 3, the representative Solhjell should look at the results. Oslopacket 3 has been in existence for many years now and is the main measure taken to achieve the objective of taking all traffic growth by bicycles, corridors and public transport. And it does. Car traffic in Oslo today is at 2007 level. With the budgets adopted here at Stortinget, you're going to be able to do this in Oslo and Akershus next year as well. We can reduce car traffic and avoid an increase. E18 westward in itself, which is a smaller piece, is not what's going to destroy this. There are good collective actions within the project, as well as many more factors limiting or determining car traffic. As the representative Igstad also says, the same dimension of the road is maintained – it is the other roads that have to be done in addition to this – and it is built with six fields. There are parking rules, there is bombing, and there is an ever-increasing supply of public transport, which must also be improved in the years to come. I am absolutely sure that this – Oslopackak 3 and its contents – is the main thing to do, and that is what SV has done. I find that hard to understand. The E18 westwards is about getting into a central part of the package, and then it is important to look at the costs and dimensioning of the project, so that this does not end up going beyond the collective actions that are also in Oslopacket 3, which will be carried out in the years to come. Here you actually have to move on, and you have to adjust and not take a big step to the side and play the whole Oslopack 3 in a resistance to a single path.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2356	This has actually become a debate for or against the E18, although that is not what the Storting has to deal with. The size has to deal with a proposal from SV to carry out the so-called concept selection investigation of the project. But when I hear the SV's speakers here today, and I've heard the SV's speakers in Oslo and Akershus and others say about the E18, I think in essence that SV has decided what they think about the E18. I really don't think SV is going to change the perception of E18 no matter how many investigations are going to be carried out. I think Rasmus Hansson made a good contribution. I interpret him quite clearly so that he is against building a new E18. It's okay scouring. I disagree with him, but I think it's okay to deal with it. I don't like that we're going to use the investigative tactics in projects that we don't like. The Storting wants to build the E18. A large majority in Oslo and Akershus want to build E18, and then I don't think we should use the mechanism of investigations and new assessments to eventually postpone a project for which there is a large majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2363	There are things that indicate that the representative Myrli may also have decided what he thinks about the E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2368	That's right!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2373	Thanks for the answer. Draft selection is not something to postulate; concept selection is something to be done for all major road projects. I think it's a big problem for the cost of not implementing a separate KVU for the West Corridor and the development of the E18. But what I drew me for, directly, was to replicate to the representative Elvesuen. Yes, it is true and unlikely that it is positive that not only Oslo, but several other Norwegian cities have been able to stabilise – in some cases it has been a few years in some cities – greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector in recent years. This resulted, inter alia, in: in that 2013 total was the first year of emissions from the transport sector to decline. Maybe the same thing will happen next year, as it's been claimed earlier in the fall. But when we're planning what we're going to do by 2030, I think it would be unlikely to be stupid just to look back at 2007 and say that it's been pretty good from 2007 to now, when our best professionals have looked at what they're most likely to think will happen to what we're proposing to adopt by 2030. What are these professionals saying about Oslopackak 3? Well, that she will lead to a significant increase in the amount of transport from car traffic, because she collects views, as she is built up, although there are many good individual measures, driving car traffic in the region. It's a big problem, as long as the goals and ambitions of governments, and Oslo and Akershus themselves, point in a different direction, and one of the drivers is a big project, the West Corridor, which will drive up car traffic, which should therefore be closer, but which also has many cost challenges, which should have a full KVU. It would have been a good climate policy, it would have been a good transport policy. To me, it is surprising, perhaps, that the Left is not more open to it and supports it than they do – they are on the same point of view as the Right and the Advance Party in this matter – but I respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2384	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2398	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2412	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2426	This case of amendments to the Business Act is a follow-up to the Stortinge’s decision of 8 April 2014, Prop. 38 S for 2013–2014. These changes shall lead to fewer administrative burdens on business and public administration shall be strengthened by increasing cooperation between the European Central Registers, the Commercial Registers and the Business Registers, which the Committee considers very positive. The Committee has also noted that this should make it clear that the Business Register can participate in the system of interconnection of registers, thereby making solutions visible and informing traders about where to find information about foreign enterprises. There is a joint committee behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2433	I really took the floor just to point out that we have a lot of things like this where we get EU directives that we praise and that we just take over without having any participation. I think this is a very important directive for Norwegian business. The ambition is very high. Good information on business activities across Europe is to be provided. There will be Norwegian companies taking very good advantage of when the target is reached. I think it was a point to take the floor, because we tend to hang on to the European Union every time there is something that can be perceived as wrong, but most of the decisions in this Chamber that deal with the EU relate precisely to this type of activity where we look positive at what is happening and where we see the benefits of the kind of things that the European Union actually introduces. That, I think, was a point to underline, as we usually just shut up in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2438	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2444	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2452	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Eirin Sund, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 6, by Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Centerpartiet Proposal No. 7, from Ingunn Gjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish its own incentive system for the carriage of goods by sea in order to stimulate the transition of goods by road to sea and designed to provide an ‘ecobonus’ to transport buyers using maritime transport in given transport corridors.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2483	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government to carry out a professional review of all road development projects in the metropolitan areas of Norway, assessing whether the plans are in line with the Stortinge’s objective of taking all growth in passenger transport in the major cities by bicycles, collectively and by-pass.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2502	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a review of the National Road Carrier Regulation with a view to establishing as fair a tariff for different categories of vehicles as possible. The Storting also requests that the government at this review investigate the possibility of the carriage of scheduled buses free of charge.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the Ferens-Oslo flight within the scheme of State purchases of air routes even after 31 March 2016. The flight route is included in the call for tenders for regional air routes launched in 2015.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation by the Government of Fenernes Airport of Leirin as State-owned aerodrome with operational responsibilities assigned to Avinor.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up an action plan for road-parking in the four largest urban regions of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger, in order to improve the exchange between car and public transport.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e2538	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the projects with double tracks to Egersund on Jærbanen.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e4279	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e4412	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e4422	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-04.ana.ud1397e4462	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
