ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e53	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative of Arild Grande shall apply for parental leave from 31 March to 2 April. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative Jorid Holstad Nordmelan is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e71	On behalf of Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself, I will make suggestions to accept several Syrian refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e92	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to seven lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e101	Let me first start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. He's starting from the annexation of Crimea and the dangerous and unexplained situation in Ukraine. In this area, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has had a good dialogue with the Stortinget. This is the strength of the Norwegian foreign policy model, where the Stortinget is consulted on important foreign policy issues. We support the restrictive measures. Russia’s use of military power to change borders is unacceptable. The peace and stability we have had in Europe since World War II have built upon a fundamental respect for the sovereignty of states and the inviolability of borders. It is therefore serious when a European State with power annexes a part of its neighbouring country. This is a power policy that belongs to another time. It is a serious step backwards for Europe's security and stability. The conflict in Ukraine must find a political solution. It is important that Norway joins with its neighbours and allies in condemning violations of international law. Particularly small countries such as Norway must always strive for international law and law. We don't want to live in a world where it's the strongest right. It is particularly worrying that the situation in Ukraine contributes to a weakening of the UN's ability to deal with crises and conflicts in other parts of the world. We need a strong UN to deal with the civil war in Syria and the disaster in South Sudan. The situation in Syria has not improved, although the world's outlook is now directed towards Ukraine. Over 120,000 people are killed. Nine million is on the move. 12 million have been hit by the world's worst war. Norway should play a role in this respect, and I expect a step up in Norway’s contribution. With long-term refugees in neighbouring countries, it is particularly important to support the provision of education for children and young people. The speech to the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not contain a shift in Norwegian foreign policy. That's good because it gives predictability and stability. But it's also hard to see what's the new strategy. I miss the focus on Norway continuing to take a global leadership role for vaccines/mutilation and recognise the results of the work achieved over decades. Because in terms of women’s right to prevention and abortion, this is often a very controversial issue in many international bodies. After restrictions on women’s rights in Norway, it is particularly important that Norway does not reduce its voice in the international arena, because we see a restriction on abortion rights in very many countries. Jonas Gahr Støre and Espen Barth Eide last summer called for education to be our next investment in development policy alongside mother-child health and vaccination. And in the 2014 state budget, we arranged for a stepping up of education aid to 3 billion. kr. It is therefore good that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will present a report on education and training in development policy. When countries like Indonesia spend more money on subsidising fossil fuels than on health and education, and when countries like South Sudan spend half of the state budget on defence, it tells us that we can never build up educational provision in low-income countries without countries taking on significant responsibilities themselves. We have reached a long way in expanding education provision in the world, but there are many countries that do not yet have a good enough offer for girls, for children and young people in rural areas and for people with disabilities. The quality is also very variable. Counting the number of persons vaccinated is easy, but measuring the quality of the training provided is more difficult. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs shows how countries like South Korea have had a much stronger economic growth than Kenya, it is largely due to their own investment in education. The focus of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on trade and the construction of the economy in developing countries is also important in this context. The government says they want to reduce the number of countries receiving assistance, but it is unclear what this really means. The government must therefore clarify what they mean by this. A reduction in the number of countries can be directly opposed to the objectives of increasing efforts for democracy and human rights. There are often grants managed by the embassies for equality, democratic work, human rights organisations and civil society, which can go beyond this. There will be no more democracy and human rights in the world by providing democratic support to fewer countries. Concentration of State-to-State aid may be considered. the advice given by the OECD to Norway, but Norwegian assistance should primarily be organised where we can make a difference. I look forward to the Stortinge being able to discuss this in more detail. Of course, it would have helped if the government had assumed that we still have to give 1 pst. of aided gross national income. This is the broad majority for in the Stortinget. We could then have emerged with an overall voice in international bodies: that Norway, as a rich country, is united to 1 pst. shall be provided with assistance. The North Sea bet must continue and be filled with concrete content. We set out concrete goals such as strengthening universities, research vessels, mineral exploration and BarentsWatch. It's going to be interesting to see what concrete goals government sets itself in this area. We often say that Norwegian foreign policy is firm, but it should not. In a world that changes, we often have to change our policies, but we have to be predictable and stand firm for what are our values. Under the previous government, Norway, under Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre, chose to bring together our efforts in the world. This was done through entirely concrete issues related to the north, peace diplomacy, global health and cluster bombs. It is this programme, this strategy, which I now think is missing. It doesn't help us that the principal lines are the same. If you don't have specific tasks defined, but only general headings, you'll have little content in the bets. But it is still too early in this period to sum up both the direction and the results of the government's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e131	I expect the chairman of the committee to get answers to many of his questions during the debate. I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very timely, concise and visionary presentation. It was topical because it took us into what has shaped the world over the last few weeks. It was a recital because it devoted a great deal of space to perhaps the most serious security policy situation we in Norway have faced since the end of the Cold War. It was visionary because it draws up a new policy — a new policy that alerts more pace shifts in Norway’s development policy. The shifts in pace mean upgrading our economic diplomacy, promoting trade through global trade agreements and responding to increased pressure on human rights. Other speakers of the Right will come up with several of these questions, but I'll spend some time on the historical drama we've witnessed in Ukraine during the last few weeks. I myself was in Kiev under the auspices of NATO Partnership in February and met representatives of the opposition, journalists, researchers and businessmen. The despair of corruption and disorder brought people to the streets. The situation was then at the breaking point. Only days later, grief over the approximately 100 killed demonstrators and a relief over Janukovytsh’s exit. The agreement negotiated with the EU between Janukovytsj and the opposition was never concluded. Instead, Janukovich escaped the country. Then the Ukrainians felt that the land was divided by power. The invasion and annexation of Crimea Peninsula was never the theme of the Maidan Square in February. Shocked that, for the first time since World War II, a European state with power annexed a part of a neighbouring country has since been embossing an entire world. Since the end of the Cold War, we have seen a great deal of positive democratic development in the world. We have become accustomed to living in a peaceful corner, accustomed to the idea that it was the liberal nation state that went victorious out of the cold war. We have seen fewer wars, fewer conflicts and a more coherent international society with the United Nations as the gathering arena. Where countries in former times enriched themselves and became influential through military power, conquest of land, and by creating empires and spheres of influence, we have seen after the Cold War that emerging powers have achieved growth and development through global trade and cooperation. They have achieved growth and influence precisely because of the new existing world order. China and India, for example, have developed within this framework. We had hoped and believed that Russia was on the same track. The actions of the last few weeks question this. So, unfortunately, not all countries have turned their backs on democracy and right-wing ideals. Russia’s aggression testifies to a way of thinking that is not at home in the 21st century, leaving little doubt that countries using an aggressive display are getting more unfriends than friends. The world community has given Russia clear and unison notice: the annexation of the Crimea Peninsula is international law-enforcement. The international legal order – reason, if you like – will finally win, and it is not too late for Russia to turn around. Therefore, sanctions are necessary against Russia, Russian interests and rulers. It is absolutely essential for Norway that we follow the EU and NATO in this. It is also important that we maintain a high level of defence budgets, and that we get other NATO countries on it. The next week's NATO Foreign Minister's meeting will be important in this way. It is precisely in the light of these events that we have to regard institutions as NATO, a defence salliance which is, in essence, a contribution to the guarantee of peaceful cooperation, in what the Foreign Minister in his statement called a 'geopolitical break-up time'. NATO is no anachronism from the Cold War. NATO proves its relevance daily, through its pattern of action and its example. It was just NATO that launched and practised Partnerships for Peace in 28 countries, an important contribution to peace and detachment for nearly 20 years, which unfortunately Russia is now creating uncertainty about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e157	First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good foreign policy presentation. It was quite clear that we got delivered in this room on Tuesday. Foreign policy is not being developed overnight or in a hurry. It is in our interest to maintain continuity and broad consensus, while at the same time we have room for new bets. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has clearly stated that foreign policy is the arena of the long lines and established traditions, while at the same time he was given equal clarity in raising areas where adjustments and changes of pace are being announced as a result of the fact that there are new people at the rudder. It doesn't matter if the cat is black or white, as long as it catches the mouse, was as familiar with the message from Deng Xiaoping. In three decades, China alone has lifted more than 600 million people out of poverty. It's a trick so big that it's almost hard to grasp. Of course, the reasons for this impressive promise are complex, but it is mainly China's embrace and integration into the global economy that is the explanation. The Chinese deserve recognition for the reverse operation they have performed. It doesn't just benefit China, let's not forget it. It is therefore both right and happy that the Foreign Minister stresses that Norway wants a close and good relationship with China. It is in our interest that broad cooperation between China and Norway should be resumed and returned to normal status. In the past, we have often discussed what is put into the concept of ‘Norwegian interests’ in this room, and we may have different opinions on how much real policy and how much ideal policy should be focused on in our foreign policy. What is certain, however, is that foreign policy must be geared to both real and ideal policy. Without real-life policy considerations, it becomes difficult to maneuver on the ground. On the other hand, by leaving the ideals at home when we act outside the borders of Norway, we lose a central part of ourselves, and we also deserve no respect from others. In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs summarised this precisely, stressing that ‘a solid basis of value gives credibility to the policy of interest’. Our fundamental values are heart rate also in our foreign policy, but we become irresponsible if we do not at the same time have the ability to address the geopolitical and real policy challenges that confront us as we travel on the international arena. Nor is Norwegian foreign policy going to be in a vacuum or in the boys' room. Norwegian foreign policy is shaped by both realities and values. Next Friday we celebrate that it is 65 years since NATO was founded. NATO is no longer just a defence pact, but in my opinion the most ingenious, effective and most important international organisation Norway is in it. At the beginning 65 years ago in Washington, D.C., there were 12 member countries. Today, the alliance counts 28 members. NATO is the cornerstone of our security and defence policy and will be it in the foreseeable future. I'm glad. One for everyone, all for one – it sounds like something that could have been put together in the boys' room. It sounds so banal, but it's not. It's simple and brilliant at the same time. I am therefore also very pleased that the Foreign Minister underlines the importance and place of NATO in our security, defence and foreign policy by stressing that Norway will continue to ‘contribute to the preservation of NATO’s defence capabilities and further strengthen the political power of the alliance’. We are now in a very demanding situation. The reactions to Russia’s aggressive and international behaviour in Ukraine have been strong from the EU, NATO, the United States and the Norwegian Government. Russia has received support for its action from Syria and Venezuela, but in addition to the few who defend Russia today. Neither Belarus nor Kazakhstan, which are traditionally Russia's strongest supporters, goes out with support to Russia this time. Not even China has settled on Putin's side. When the UN Security Council was about to deal with a resolution condemning Russia’s violation of international law, 13 countries voted in favour, while China abstained. Russia vetoed. This is probably most about how Russia itself has managed to isolate itself this time. There are no military solutions to the crisis in Ukraine, only politically. It's my hope that Russia too realizes this. It is easy to sympathise with some of the concerns voiced by the Russians — whether it is about the uncertainty surrounding Russian as the other state language in Ukraine, about the uncertainty surrounding the bases of the Black Sea fleet in Crimea, or finally the presence and involvement of extreme nationalist groupings in government and administration in a country that is run on a steep economic footing and that tops the statistics on corrupt countries in Europe. But – and it’s a big but here: it’s not possible to have sympathy for Russia’s way of meeting these concerns. Russia has now effectively and militarily taken a piece of another country, violated international law and created instability and tension in its vicinity. It can't be accepted. To the autumn we celebrate that it is 25 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall, and in a few more years we celebrate that it is 25 years since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Many of us had high expectations of Russia after the collapse of communism. Of course, we are disappointed with developments, and today's crisis brings incorruptible memories. Nevertheless, it is my hope that Russia realises that Russia too has the most benefit of following international rules of play and acting as an integrated player on the arena, and that the time for solo games according to its own rules of play belongs to the past. The Nordic regions are the second most important strategic foreign policy area of this government. The previous government, too, carried this message to the square. But here the Foreign Minister announces that we will now take a new step. This step will go more from word to action when we focus on the north. Right here it is actually so tempting to quote Marve Flexesnes that I dare to do just this: ‘It is easy to shout hallelujah, but to do so.’ I interpret the Minister for Foreign Affairs as he will follow Marve Fleksnes' call and let words become action in the northern regions. Overall investment in the north will have to involve increased investment in infrastructure, such as road and rail, increased presence at all levels, increased organisation of business start-ups, increased people-to-people cooperation, increased efforts to reduce border barriers and further development of good neighbourhoods where domestic policy meets foreign policy. Common challenges are just common challenges, and that means that they also need to be addressed jointly. In ten minutes you can't get into all the important issues of foreign policy, but I'll end up mentioning someone in brief. In Syria, we are still witnessing the greatest humanitarian disaster in modern times. What's happening is simply unintelligible. It's also hard to imagine how this war can be solved. What seems to be certain at the end of the day is that the civilian population of Syria must suffer from the animal-breathed experiences of Iraq and Afghanistan, and that experience has also shown us that unfortunately there can be a choice between plague and cholera in opposition versus position. The warning by Foreign Ministers of their own announcements of increased commitment to education in development policy, of an offensive policy for globalisation and free trade, and of the increased importance of human rights in the formulation of foreign and development policy are all warmly welcomed and clearly show that we have put in place a government capable of making the necessary adjustments and changes in the pace. Finally, there are concerns in several places in the world, not just in our neighbourhoods. That is why I will finally send a thought to those who raise the voice of democracy and human rights, to the authoritarian socialist regime in Venezuela. We're with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e202	Let me first thank Minister of Foreign Affairs Burnde for a very timely and good report. We got a clear speech, not least about Russia's behaviour in Crimea. The Christian People's Party is in complete agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Russia's military invasion and annexation of Ukrainian territory in the Crimea Peninsula are serious violations of the principle of international law and a power policy that is another time. This must be the reaction of the world community. We must call for international legal order and condemn Russia's conduct. We have to react with more than words. Economic sanctions are in place, the attack on Ukraine shall be priced. We must take the events as a reminder of the importance of the NATO alliance as the anchoring of our national defence policy. The spread of weapons of mass destruction is a tack against international security. Last year, the Oslo Conference focused on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. It has renewed the debate on nuclear weapons. The Christian People's Party expects the government to actively follow up the new "momentum" that has thus been created in the work to reduce threats from nuclear weapons. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Foreign Minister warns against human rights being under increasing pressure in several countries. This is a serious danger signal, and we welcome a higher level of ambition in the efforts of democracy and human rights. By 2020, developing countries will need hundreds of millions of new jobs to save large young people from a life of unemployment. This is a huge challenge. Private sector job creation and growth are important and can be promoted through investment and trade. This requires a secure framework for investment and trade, and governance must ensure a good governance, investment and trade legal protection, energy, infrastructure and not least skilled labour. Experience over many decades shows that shortcuts such as the use of aid to subsidise the donor countries’ own enterprises can do as much damage as they can in developing countries. It is not without reason that the OECS Development Committee has warned against tied assistance. Development assistance shall be of assistance to developing countries, not to the business community of the donor country. In this respect, it might be more obvious, as it is alarming that well-informed media, such as today's Leadership Business yesterday, interprets the foreign minister's assistance signal so that several aid crowns are now being used to secure Norwegian business. I take it, of course, that the money in the emergency budget should help the poor and fight poverty in developing countries, not help ourselves. In the Christian People's Party, we expect the reform to make development policy better, for the poor of the world. We will offensively contribute to a renewal that will make Norwegian policy more results-oriented. The Christian People's Party has called for a repatriation of education as a field of action. Now it will be a reality. We expect the government to strengthen the development of civil society, and we lack a clearer signal on that in the distribution. The Christian People's Party wants a reform for the geographical concentration of aid, but such a reform will fail if we do not differentiate the guidelines according to the specific nature of the various aid channels and the tasks they will perform. More of the heavy state-to-state aid can be collected in fewer countries than today. It's also the OECD recommendation. In other countries, state-to-state assistance is difficult due to the regime, but such places can be an alternative. It would also be pointless to say no to provide humanitarian relief in conflict and disaster situations because developing countries are not on the geographical concentration list. Just think of Syria and South Sudan today. Foreign policy is often strongly influenced by national self-interests. Development policy must show that we take responsibility for something more than that. For this reason, the Christian People's Party wants to make active contributions to a transition to improve the quality and strength of the results, to the poor and persecuted in the world – at their best.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e217	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good distribution of important and very topical foreign policy challenges. Several of them are indebted to our neighbourhood. The Norwegian government's approach and management of the situation on the Crimea Peninsula were carefully reviewed, and from the Central Party's side we support the government. We in Norway must be clear about how we perceive the situation, and we must be clear that a country cannot annex parts of another country's territory in violation of international law. It is important that all parties in such a situation think carefully through assessments, actions and word usage that are useful in the public space. All parties must have a political solution and the decisions they make and the assessments they express must be aimed at contributing to it. The Central Party believes that it is right for Norwegian Governing Authorities to conclude on the measures adopted by the EU, as well as that of course we should follow up the decisions of the NATO Alliance. In such a crisis, it is important to stand together and contribute to policy solutions that do not escalate the level of conflict further. I am therefore pleased that NATO has put this on the agenda, as the Foreign Minister pointed out in his statement. Russia has for almost 65 years been bordering NATO in the north. As the Foreign Minister refers to in his speech, this is Russia's most peaceful border. It must also be in the future. We need to further develop cooperation in the north to solve the challenges associated with it. resource management, and we need to maintain and further develop the people-to-people cooperation for which there is a long tradition across the borders of the north. Since 2006, the University of Nordland, through its educational programme in Sevastopol and Simferopol in Ukraine, has contributed to the re-education of officers in Ukraine into the civil profession. The launch was based on a corresponding re-education program in Murmansk for officers in the Russian North Fleet. With our experience of North interaction and development, it's more important than anything that the dialogue with our Russian neighbours is not confused, but is open. Our valuable experience should be able to put Norway in a position that mediates in the conflict between Russia and the Western world in terms of intervention on the Crimea Peninsula and the alarming situation there. The Nordic region is the most important foreign policy area in the country, with rich natural resources, alternative sailing trails and a high potential for development. The Centre Party will facilitate a positive development in the north through an active industrial policy, a commitment to security, competence and infrastructure. We want to use the whole country. It would also be interesting if the Foreign Minister could clarify what is the government's strategy for the development of the North. World-wide economic differences may evolve to become security policy challenges. Several countries are moving from low to middle-income countries, while the gap between poor and rich increases. This can also challenge stability, while we know that great differences in themselves are home to development and to good living conditions. The central party wants a policy that helps to smooth out both the country and the country. The centre party believes Norway should still have a high level of developmental and emergency assistance. International trade policy needs to be developed with resilience and redistribution as a guide. We mean that every country should have the right to produce food for its own people and will stop dumping food. This must be the position of Norway in international trade negotiations. I notice that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is signaling a change of pace in the promotion of global free trade. The central party will warn the new government of a change of line in trade policy based on ideological belief in free movement. The central party does not want further liberalisation of world trade. Not all sectors qualify for liberalisation through international trade agreements. We want to support the interest of the poorest countries in the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e240	That's it. The representative may come back with several points later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e243	We have so many to divide by, so we're going to come back multiple times to different parts of this. I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very solid and good presentation. I am also very pleased that the government is following the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy, even in an enlarged sense. We have a weight in being able as a nation to stand together on important foreign policy interventions, and we should continue to do so. I am also very pleased with the overall message in the presentation, which I think was different from what I have heard in recent years. Firstly, there is a solid value base as a premise for foreign policy. I am very pleased with the human rights focus that the Foreign Minister made several times in his statement, and also to maintain the community of which Norway is part. The events of the last weeks raise our awareness of the importance of this, and how important it will be for a small country like Norway – both the community we have with the United States and Europe, and the fact that we are so firmly rooted in NATO, but also the support for the UN, which despite the many shortcomings of the United Nations, is the multilateral system. I believe that it is important to strengthen the multilateral systems around us, and it is important to develop the most effective international legal order. Then I also want to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for being clear about Ukraine and the crisis – that he was early on the track, that he was present in Maidan Square, and stressed that Ukraine's case is ours as well. Because it is important to be clear to the way Russia has behaved, which is totally unacceptable with blatant violations of international law. I fully share the government's sanction line with Russia, and it is important to follow the EU and NATO when considering further sanctions. It cannot be that we should accept that military power should again be what determines borders in Europe – we thought it was crucial in the last century and the time before that. We in the Left are also very pleased that we have suspended the trade agreement between Norway and Russia via EFTA. We have many times in this Chamber stated that we have been anxious that we are now negotiating an agreement with Europe's last dictatorship, namely Belarus, and that we got it on the purchase. Ola Elvestuen will come back to it later in the debate. Then I am very pleased that we have a foreign minister who has been so clear about human rights. When the Left meets next weekend, the theme is human rights. We meet the human rights message, as promised by the Council of State, with great expectations, and we believe that it is important to emphasise both civil and political rights – the right to, for example. health and education are an important part of it – and assume that it is also discussed in the message, that there will be a particular focus on women and children’s rights, which we still see under pressure, and that we need to ratify the right of complaint to children. When it comes to assistance, I just want to make a few words. We're open to the need to get to a concentration, but we're very excited about what the Council of State really means by concentration. We see that there are many small projects that have major effects, and it is important to maintain the commitment of civil society in terms of reducing state-to-state aid. We think it is important to build up customs and trade, as the Council of State said, and Terje Breivik is going to get more involved in his post. I'll bring you two moments in the end. I am very pleased with all that the Council of State said when it was about climate, and for the understanding of the importance of getting climate policy into foreign policy as well. But he lacked a little bit of a theme on which I would like to challenge him, which is about the understanding of the entire natural resource management as fundamental to poverty reduction and the creation of growth and welfare development. Natural resource management is one of the challenges that we need to address in a good way in the future, both in terms of water resources and other natural resources, which will be demanding. I should also have said a little bit more about the death penalty, where the numbers from Amnesty came today. It's demanding, and there we should have been much clearer both towards Egypt and towards other countries that now seem to be using the death penalty much more. It's one of the things we should fight down, including from a human rights perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e264	Many are familiar: Right hails the euphoric NATO, the Progress Party refers to the Marve Flexenses. But the committee leader of the Labour Party said, to my great delight, that foreign policy should not be determined. That's exactly what they said, because the world isn't fixed. The world is changing, foreign policy must be constantly changing. For example, who had believed that in 2013–2014 a conflict between the Western world and Russia would be the leading theme of foreign policy? The best thing about the foreign minister's distribution was a basically very well-founded defence of international law, and SV supports the condemnation of Russia's intervention in Crimea and praises his handling. But there is also a need for many in the Western world to see themselves in the mirror when it comes to international law. I saw U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry at one of the morning shows, where he looked into the camera and said, ‘You just don’t invad another country’. It was well said and something to bring forward for the United States, but also for the party in this Chamber, because a little over a decade ago, when Iraq was invaded in violation of international law, it set an agenda that was crazy for international policy, which stood for a decade to come and helped to delegate international law. Too many people in the Western world are overreached. If the strong words that defend international law now are to be taken further to the next round, when needed. I thought the Foreign Minister had a good start. He has handled matters professionally and our confidence-giving. But I found it difficult to see a line in foreign policy for the government. I thought the arrangement that was kept here was weak in order to have a clear direction. Everything was safe and sound, but I see the outlines of a government that doesn't have a project beyond one: easy to cut in the theme and country of the assistance. Let me, on behalf of SV, warn against land counting as the leader of development policy in Norway. I would simply like to characterise it as a meaningless goal for a policy that aims to combat poverty – because poverty exists in all regions and countries in the south and in most countries in the world, because small amounts are often part of a larger investment from many countries — for example. When it comes to human rights, it is like this – because our presence in many countries has very different foundations that make us there – from traditional fight against poverty through political foundations, through rainforests to many other humanitarian grounds and to other things, such as human rights – and because it is in Norway’s interest to be heavy in most important regions and areas of the country, and that is what we are, among other things. through our development policy. I have also studied the OECD report. He is mainly a very good critic of Norwegian aid, which says that we are at the top of the world of quality, but that of course we should constantly adjust the state-to-state aid when it is right – end what is not good, but also start a place when we see need it. Combined with fewer countries, a reduction in the number of themes is a policy which can at least be understood to mean that development policy is more likely to affect us. I thought we saw more here the outlines of a reform with less ambition and more self-interest. That's the last thing we need in Norwegian development policy. Let's hope it's wrong when it comes. Finally, let me say that there is an urgent need in the world for Norway to take the lead on large projects together with everyone else. That we are now continuing to do the work of the red-green government in strengthening education aid is very good, and let me mention some others. Taking the lead in establishing a ban on nuclear weapons, the foundation of humanitarian law, which the Christian People's Party praised here, is an enormously important task. It's the most exciting thing that's happened in that field in many decades. Climate and natural disasters will be the major global challenges of this century. I thought there was too little heavy present in relation to how important it is. The climate was up, but the management of natural resources, the loss of natural disasters, must be central, together with climate, in Norwegian aid in the future. We should also have a heavy humanitarian effort. In the most important crises in the world, a leader is called. We can contribute more militarily in South Sudan, we can take the lead in the Central African Republic, and we can receive more refugees from Syria, as SV has proposed here in the morning in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e290	First, I would like to stress how important it has been – and is – that we have united on the responses to Russia's international violations in the heart of Europe. We cannot, in the 21st century, accept that a large country takes a piece of a smaller European country without its consequences. Therefore, the EU, NATO and Norway have clearly stated to Russia that if it was not possible to find and they were not willing to enter into a genuine political dialogue and negotiate agreement through multilateral channels, restrictive measures – economic ones – from Europe and the United States and in a NATO context had to be expected. The broad consensus in the United Kingdom that we have imposed these restrictive measures, including on the part of Norway, has been a strength and has contributed to the feeling of pressure in Russia which, hopefully, will help to ensure that there will be no further escalation of the conflict in Ukraine. Unfortunately, I cannot guarantee that there will be no further feeding in Ukraine in the weeks ahead, but the West has clearly said to Russia about the consequences it will have. There will be further action. I would also like to thank the committee leader, Mr Huitfeldt, for the cooperation we have had around this extraordinary situation that has arisen in Europe – that is the most difficult security policy situation since the Cold War – and Norway's reactions and the way we have dealt with it have been noticed, and it has been greatly appreciated that we have been so clear. It is also nice to note that the SV representative believes that we have followed a safe and good foreign policy so far, with a Right-wing Party government. I'll take that with me. As for the future bets from this government, I was in touch with some of them in my presentation, but repeat briefly: we want to see a much clearer Norwegian voice in the implementation of the so-called Doha Development Round in the WTO. It's good to create the 700 million new jobs we need by 2020, which will lead to extra value creation, and not least it's very good for many poor countries, where access to markets means more than what development aid can ever mean. This government is stepping up economic diplomacy. We are more committed to following Norwegian business into emerging markets. When you create jobs outside, you also create jobs at home. Foreign policy is a policy of interest. The main task of foreign policy is also to safeguard Norway’s interests internationally, with the result that it takes care of our national interests. We can never accept attempts to relativise human rights – it's another field of action. With regard to the death sentences we've seen in Egypt, I've been very clear that they're unacceptable. I've been clear that it doesn't work – in the 21st century, at an ally in Europe – trying to stop social media like Twitter. It's a disturbing development in the field of human rights, because many people are trying to say that because of traditional values we won't deal with what it's been a broad consensus for decades after decades. Norway has an important role to play here. Last week, in the Human Rights Council, Norway had a very clear voice in condemning the negative developments we have seen, for example. in Egypt, in recent times. In the area of development, we have made it quite clear that we want more results-oriented assistance. The fact that people in poor countries will get better and get out of poverty, so that it is no longer a developing country, but becomes a middle-income country, is the purpose of development aid. And then the OECD and many people who have studied Norwegian development aid, say that dividing into 112 countries requires a lot of resources, even when it comes to following up from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – we're going to prevent corruption, we're going to prevent the funds from being used effectively. So over time, we're going to reduce the number of countries, and the number of themes, so we're going to have greater influence and positive impact through aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e312	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e315	In several countries, women die as a result of unsafe abortions. Our foreign minister has previously in many international contexts called for the international community to be clear in the fight for self-determined abortion. In several countries, there have been backsliding, for example. In Spain, and many European countries, women have also been banned from abortion in recent years. A small step backwards in Norwegian abortion legislation has been discussed recently in Norway, but since Norway has such a strong voice internationally, it is particularly important that there is no international silence. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, in which international assemblies has the Minister for Foreign Affairs personally raised the issue of strengthening women's right to self-determined abortion since he took over as Minister for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e322	This also provides a good opportunity to recall the great health effort that the government is carrying out. In the supplementary proposal, we have proposed – and got through to the Stortinget – a greater health effort in the area of development policy than ever in Norwegian history. This is a follow-up to the good work done by the previous government in this area, and there is an important part of what is known as reproductive health in developing countries — what goes on both prevention, women's right to abortion and safe abortion. And I've been raising these questions in many conversations since I joined – barely six months ago – not least with the head of the UN Population Fund, who was in Norway, and I also met him in New York. And in many contexts where we are now engaged in demanding negotiations in terms of population, Norway's voice is very clear on the right to safe abortions, to prevention, which is essential in many developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e327	The Minister of Foreign Affairs will have a greater focus on aid; he will have fewer countries of cooperation and fewer themes. My question will then be: when the Minister for Foreign Affairs wants to concentrate assistance on fewer countries, is this about budgetary cooperation, country-to-country assistance, or is it also about support for basic planning organisations, civil society, to UN organisations in each country? Does that mean that the concentration is then to be 100 percent in less countries, including those that are not state aid? If I were to take some examples, I would mention human rights in some Latin American countries. It may be okay not to have state-to-state assistance to some countries in Latin America, but what about human rights groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e332	The reason why we are now looking at a reduction in the number of countries is that 112 countries are very many countries to manage, and if we are to get more results-oriented and results-based assistance, this is a necessary tool. It's not an end in itself, it's an instrument for us to reach the poorest, and for us to concentrate more on focus countries where we can make a larger partnership. If we look at our neighbouring countries, if we look at other countries that run the aid, they have over time reduced the number of countries something to be able to follow the projects better, make sure that the money comes to those who need it the most, and make sure that they do not disappear in corruption, in poor governance. The goal is more and more better results and a greater concentration around the countries with which we have really entered into partnerships.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e337	For the Christian People's Party, it has been an important mantra to talk about an overall development policy. That is why a government shift has also been liberating, with a focus on the most effective assistance – I'm going to get more into it later – but also pointing to trade and investment and job creation as important instruments. And we are pleased that the Foreign Minister wants the private sector to be more involved in the fight against poverty and that aid can help create jobs. It is important, but the new work must be part of development policy and not aim at promoting Norwegian business abroad. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development and talks about the Norwegian interest in foreign policy. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to clarify that his Minister of Development hat is about promoting the interest of the poor, and that the mandate of development policy is to fight for the poor, and that, for example, the means of assistance are: to promote Norwegian business, to help the poor and not to help Norwegian businesses, until we have other means to use them. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e344	Thank you for an important line, which gives rise to a couple of clarifications. I believe that it is in Norwegian interest to combat poverty. The fact that the number of poor people in the world living in extreme poverty has been halved from 1990 to 2010 has been one of the most important measures to ensure greater peace and stability and has given people a completely different opportunity. So when Norway pays as much as we do on development, it is to provide an opportunity for growing generations that would not get it without our contribution. But it is also to create a greater degree of stability in the world, because poverty leads to war, conflict and dissatisfaction. Norwegian business can be a development aid co-player, that's what I stress, and I don't see any contradiction in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e349	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs took up the climate in his statement. He pointed out that climate change has serious consequences for health, food production and access to clean water. This shows the need to intensify efforts to reduce climate and gas emissions. Can the Foreign Minister give an assessment of how much climate work would be going on internationally on state pension funds abroad withdraws their investment from coal companies and instead invests in future and renewable solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e354	Climate and greenhouse gas emissions reductions are a very important element of a future-oriented development policy. Those who are hit first and hardest by the global temperature rises we face are those who have emitted at least CO2 – those who live by nature in poor countries. Norway must have an offensive position until the Paris Summit in 2015 – not only by reaching a binding international agreement with which all countries are involved, but also by bringing up a package on climate finance, which is necessary to bring with us middle-income countries in this work. Norway has many instruments in this regard: we are offensive in terms of climate finance and the World Bank’s GEF Fund, The Global Environment Facility. We also have a lot of activity through Norfund. When it comes to questions about the state pension fund abroad, it is under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and the question has to be addressed to her.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e366	I want to ask a follow-up question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this very topic, because I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs is responding well in terms of climate. He also had good perspectives on this in the presentation. The challenge of eradicating extreme poverty, which the government has at the top of its agenda, is not only the climate challenge, but also the whole natural diversity challenge, which is about understanding how to manage natural resources such as water, soil and forests – all the natural resources that are linked to the life base of the world's poorest. My question is whether the Council of State can elaborate it more, because it was missing in his statement, and that was something left missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e375	Thank you for that. This is also a matter that lies close to my heart, namely the fight against the great loss of biodiversity that is seen globally. Here too, the biggest losers are the poor in developing countries. They often live in nature and rural areas, and an offensive policy to stop the loss of global biodiversity was one of the things that the previous government took seriously, and that is something that we have carried on in our budgets. The big forest bet, which is the biggest global one, and where you now spend $3 billion. This year, it can be seen as a climate action — it is too — but it is also a hugely important measure to stop biodiversity loss, because there is a lot of it, among other things. in the rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e385	The last one was a good post, but a little bit of detail is that it's less than 3 billion. NOK, because the government reduced the amount – from 3 billion. kr – in 2014. I'm taking the chance of raising two questions, because the first is simple: Will the new human rights message that is coming also hold the economic and social human rights – not just the political and civil ones – covering the whole area of the UN Declaration of Human Rights? I would also like to ask if the 112 countries: I don't think any of them actually have a function in what number is right. We have to develop it all the time. It is probably something that can be done better, removed, or perhaps new things too, but one has made it a central goal. Right said before the election that the number of land should drop to 20–40, preferably concentrated in Africa. Now it's a little bit more diffuse. But if one makes it a central goal, it must be because it's a big problem, and then I wonder: How far down must one before the problem is removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e398	There was one premise and two questions. For the first premise, it's 3 billion. kr. 400 million. kr could be added if needed – if the money is used. The challenge with the rainforest in recent years is that the money that was granted has not been used. It has also been a challenge for the previous government. As far as human rights are concerned, it is clear that economic and social issues are an important part of it and will be addressed. In the case of 112 countries, I think that the representative Solhjell once did not get all the details of what I said, because I underlined in my post that this with greater concentration is just an instrument – not a goal. It has to be an instrument to be able to obtain more results-oriented assistance. There is a lot to follow up on 112 countries, and the challenge in Norway is that the number of countries has increased and has not declined in recent years, while in other countries there has been a broad consensus that there is a need to reduce the number of countries to get more aid back. This is simply a discussion of instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e409	In the case of rainforest, the amount was reduced, but it was announced that it could be used more in the year. It is not correct that your money has not been used. It's because the thinking in the rainforest bet is that a set of money that comes to the payout later, when the results are reached. It's extremely important that one doesn't go away from that idea and over to a thought that if we use the money, it's good. When the money is set aside, it's because it's given clear promises and because it's eventually shown in the results. If that's how the number on land is just a tool, that's exactly what I mean. But the Foreign Minister himself continues to describe it as a major problem that we have 112 countries, because it presents great challenges in the follow-up. Then my question will be: Where is the correct level? Should it not also be that it follows the actual priorities and what we want to achieve in the fight against poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e420	In the case of rainforest, 3 billion could be used. kr this year, if there is a need for it, but the most important thing is that there is a broad political consensus on the rainforest bet, as Erik Solheim initiated, and as I think is a very good and important bet, and as we will continue and where we will take global leadership, in addition to the areas of health and education. With regard to development policy and these 112 countries, I have not said that this is a major problem, but that there is a great opportunity to have more effective and more performance-based development assistance. Today we spread too much. We can have greater influence if we focus more on the countries with which we really cooperate and where we have a partnership. In addition to increasing the number of countries, we have increased the number of themes, and we have spent a little less money on the countries with which we cooperate most, and there has been a development that I don't think contributes to the most effective development aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e429	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e432	I would also like to thank you for a very good presentation, and, like other speakers, let me also give praise and full support to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his handling of the Ukraine crisis. It is important that we show solidarity with our allies in NATO, and that we coordinate with our partners in the EU in terms of measures and penalties. It is also important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that he has addressed the situation of minorities in Ukraine with its President-in-Office. It is also right, as the Foreign Minister said, that the crisis concerns us all. I noticed at the same time that he made it clear that there is no bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia. Let me add that we do not accept Russia's violation of international law, but the conflict must be resolved politically. I would like to support the Foreign Minister in that our NATO membership has been and is the basis for both our good relationship with Russia and the increasing Nordic cooperation on foreign and defence cooperation. It is Nordic cooperation that takes place on the basis of — and I had almost said ‘in spite of’ — the anchoring of security policies and alliances of individual countries. I would also like to stress that Norway's relationship with Russia has been and is stable and even demanding, but that is important in terms of the challenges we face in the northern regions. All Arctic countries are necessary partners to ensure that we have sustainable management of the environment and resources in the north. It is also important to involve the United States more closely in cooperation, and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed, the forthcoming Presidency of the Arctic Council is a good opportunity to do so. In development policy, Norway has for many years taken global leadership in the field of Millennium Goal No. 4 and 5 on better assembly and the fight against infant mortality. I would also like to refer to what the chairman of the committee said. Ensuring women's right to sexual and reproductive health is important. It is also vital for a child to survive the first two years of life. Through, inter alia: The GAVI vaccine alliance, often in cooperation with UNICEF, has helped Norway to prevent infant mortality and rescue millions of children. But then it's a cross of thought. In the middle-income country of India, UNICEF continues to vaccinate 40 pst. of all children. What does that tell us? It tells us something about the challenges we are actually facing with regard to the large, poor groups in large, middle-income countries, among other things. in the emerging economies. I noticed now that the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about the importance of getting more countries into the Middle East Group. Yes, it is, but it's just as important to get the groups at the bottom of those societies to a higher level. Perhaps a part of our foreign and development policy must be to make demands on the middle-income countries for distribution policy internally. We have less differences between countries in the world, but we have increased differences, increased inequalities, among other things. intermediate country of income. When the middle class increases, the poor just stay where they are. It is also important for Norway to maintain or increase core support for UN organisations working in both health and, in particular, education, which are now a Norwegian bet area. In order to take global responsibility for education, Norway should also strengthen funding for the education of girls. But to ensure girls education, I had almost said from preschool to early childhood, there is a lot of infrastructure and many social conditions that need to be looked at. Schools must be arranged for girls. This also applies to sanitary conditions. When girls are taken out of school to look after younger siblings and use the day to sank by cooking the family’s dinner, there are other structures than the school offer that have to be done to ensure that they get that school. I would also like to refer to a previous interpellation debate. It was the representative of Trine Skei Grande who had an interpellation about exactly these conditions. Children’s and girls’ schools must provide a basis for Norwegian education assistance. Child-friendly schools must have as their primary objective universal access to all children. There must be drinking water and toilet facilities, and there should preferably not be so many kilometres of school road. The children must have school materials, and they must have enough teachers to learn effectively. Child-friendly schools must also be girllike. What is perhaps the next major health struggle for women and children in the world society is about nutrition. Nutrition, in fact from the very beginning of Mother's womb, is crucial for the development of children and thus an important part of the Millennium Goals No. Four and five. Ensuring proper nutrition for young children is one of the most important and cost-effective measures available to promote economic growth and development. We have had great success with the GAVI vaccine alliance in the field of vaccines. Perhaps we should also have a global nutrition fund, where both private and public funds can be used to provide both mothers and children with proper nutrition. I believe at least that when we talk about both reproductive and sexual health for women, when we talk about ensuring that kids grow up, that they survive the first and second years of life, nutrition too will increasingly have to be part of the development policy that we are pursuing. This means that we need to work for global health appropriations specifically, including in the field of nutrition. I want to repeat what I asked questions about in my reply, because I feel that I did not receive an answer. We have understood that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that 112 countries are too many, and that results-oriented assistance requires fewer countries, but my question was whether it also includes support for UN organisations, support for human rights groups, support for civil society, only in the countries on which attention is to be given. I think it is important that we get an answer to that, because it is not necessarily the same thing to have bilateral budgetary cooperation with a country and to provide support to other groups in countries that are not a co-operation country for Norwegian development assistance in that sense. Finally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his statement that Afghanistan is facing a crucial stage in its development ahead of the elections on 5 April. Let me underline what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Norway must stand firm on its civil assistance obligations and that we must make clear demands for the recipients. I also welcome the statement on Afghanistan, from the Foreign Minister and from the Minister of Defence, which was announced in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e460	Clear changes and reform of development policy were presented to us by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and nothing less than three major messages have been announced: increased efforts for trade, education, human rights and offensive policies to promote global trade. The statement showed that there is a red thread from development policy to foreign policy, and from developing countries’ interests to Norwegian interests. Priorities such as education, health, energy, equality and good governance are in line with the challenges we face today, not least if the UN’s Millennium Goals are to be met by the deadline of 2015. Education is the cornerstone of achieving the goals of more and faster development. The educational goal is the Millennium Goal the world's society has achieved the longest. Nevertheless, an international political promise is needed to achieve the goal by 2015. The Prime Minister's commitment to the UN Secretary-General's group of drivers for the Millennium Goals shows the seriousness of the government's involvement in this work. It is also important to work towards setting new and ambitious targets after 2015. The challenge will be to ensure that education benefits marginalised groups and girls. Near 90 pst. Of all the world's children now go to school, but often it's reserved for boys. Gender equality in education is of great importance in achieving other objectives, such as better child and parenthood. I would like to say, with the address of the committee chairman, that we have not cut anything in cooperation with, for example. GAVI on vaccine programmes. The Chairman of the Committee Huitfeldt can be absolutely certain that Norwegian positions on women's reproductive health will be continued in cooperation with the WHO, the UN Human Rights Council, or in other UN contexts. At the same time, we need to ensure that the children who grow up receive a high-quality education, that the children actually meet in school for daily use, and that higher education is also offered. I welcome the announcement to the Stortinget that makes concrete the increased effort for education. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also spoke about the importance of industrial development in developing countries. The long-term objectives of combating poverty require a significant boost in the growth of business in developing countries. Profitable enterprises increase value creation, productivity and employment. The tax revenue of international companies contributes in some countries is much greater than the assistance we provide. Therefore, trade and investment are an important component of the development of wealth. Therefore, it is important that countries have good and stable arrangements and that income benefits the population there. It is therefore important that the government has now started work on a communication to the United Kingdom on the importance of an offensive policy on globalisation and free trade. Consent has been one of the demands of Norwegian aid organisations. They have wanted Norway not to pursue its development policy in a way that means that rich countries give with one hand and take with the other. While aid policy often targets the consequences of poverty, development policy should help solve the causes of poverty and inequality. Through the presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs gives clear signals that it is possible to achieve such an agreement. We saw a change of direction already in the additional proportion of the state budget last autumn. At that time, the first steps were taken towards a change in development policy. Tuesday we heard the visions, and in the autumn we get the budget to make the direction changes visible. It is now working non-stop, I understand, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to systematise and review the development projects in order to ensure quality, improve and improve results. I'm impatient even though I understand that work will take time. The notified concentration of assistance in terms of both thematic and geographical scope has not been made overnight. It must be a goal for Norwegian assistance to reach those who need it the most. We also need to set clear requirements for the beneficiaries of Norwegian assistance. There have been several debates this winter on countries that do not comply with human rights. When Uganda adopted its new laws criminalizing homophilis, the Foreign Minister reacted with his Danish colleague. It is important to send out signals that assistance is absent from such gross violations of human dignity. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘We can never accept attempts to relativise human rights. Authorities shall not be able to circumvent human rights by reference to traditional values, national sovereignty and non-interference principles.’;» I fully share this view. We've seen violations of human rights in several countries lately. In Egypt, over 500 people were sentenced to death in a summary trial. Many of them were not even present when the judgments were passed. Tunisia is one of the Arab Spring countries that shows results. After the revolution, the country was thrown into political chaos, but now in January the country was given a new constitution that ensures the distribution of power, fundamental human rights and equality. Many other conflicts could be mentioned. For the first time in 15 years, this spring, the Stortinget will receive a report on the increasing importance of human rights in the formulation of foreign and development policy, and it will be read with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e491	Let me also thank the Foreign Minister for a good foreign policy statement on Tuesday. Nothing combats poverty more effectively than a market economy, and the emphasis of the Foreign Minister on trade as a tool for mutual dependence cannot be overestimated. Aristotle, not Flexible, introduced the expression: «The whole is greater than the sum of its parts», and that is exactly what cross-border trade creates. It obviously requires countries to produce and sell what they do best and cheapest. Trade creates interdependence, it creates respect for each other, and it makes armed conflict very expensive for all parties. Global trade means that each country does not need to produce everything it needs for its own consumption. Each country produces it best, and it has the best assumptions for producing it. That once again means willingness to convert. I'm glad the government has such a starting point. Let me briefly address the role of trade in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Russia’s invasion of Crimea was a violation of international law, and of course it should be condemned, as Norway and most other countries have done. But perhaps so interesting are the reflections that countries have so far made in retrospect, namely that the costs of a total boycott of Russia will be too large for all parties involved. Trade has made Russia and Western countries interdependent. This shows that cross-border trade can itself be anti-conflict. Liberalism and openness work, protectionism does not work, or to quote the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘This crisis concerns us all, but is not a bilateral issue between Norway and Russia. It is in Norway's interest to continue working with Russia on challenges we can only find solutions to jointly, within responsible resource management, environmental protection and the economy. Norway wants to continue the good contact that already exists between our two peoples — the one that has led to more open borders and greater mutual understanding, not least in the north.’ The world is increasingly characterised by interdependence. Increased trade benefits everyone. It is therefore positive that the government will implement a change of pace in promoting Norwegian business interests internationally and that Norway will strengthen its diplomatic presence in these emerging economies. I assume then that we will reduce the presence in other countries. The Foreign Minister's ambitions that, in the future, the EEAS will promote Norwegian business interests in a strategic and more targeted and holistic way are the right way to go. This, as a consequence, strengthens the business life initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by bringing together the work on nutrition promotion, economic diplomacy, energy and a forward-looking development policy is positive. I assume once again that this parallel means less focus on other areas. If you give priority to something, you have to put a different priority down. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also stressed that the government's overall ambition is to contribute to the eradication of all extreme poverty. He pointed out that from 1990 to 2010, the proportion of the extremely poor has been halved. At the same time, we have had a huge population growth. Since 1990 we have become 1.7 billion more people on earth. There are more people in themselves than there were on earth in 1900. So we're able to reduce poverty, while the world's population has increased sharply. According to the UN, by 2050 there will be almost 10 billion people on earth. ‘Sustained poverty reduction requires inclusive economic growth, increased trade, innovation and entrepreneurship — and that we exploit the countless opportunities offered by new technologies. We shall contribute to the achievement of the ambitious goals set by the world society." This was a quote from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In other words, the expected population growth is above – yes, I say from here in the hall – 240,000 people every day until 2050. It's a completely unfathomable number. This means that the world's population is increasing by around the population of Norway every three weeks. All of these should preferably have met basic needs such as food, water and energy. In such a perspective, it is particularly interesting to listen to the Norwegian climate debate, or to say it this way: the world’s climate is not very different from that of an electric car. In this respect, I would recommend both the government and the opposition to listen more to financial investor Øystein Stray Spetalen. In any case, it should not be overlooked that Norway’s focus should be more focused on how Norway can contribute differently to addressing the challenges notified by the United Nations. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for emphasizing human rights in his presentation. As the minister quite correctly put it, human rights can never be relativised. In this context, it's important that we are clear on what these rights actually are. The most important are equivalency, equality, freedom of expression, personal freedom and religious freedom. It's important that we say what they actually are, instead of just talking about 'human rights'.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e522	I want to put myself in line and thank the Foreign Minister for a good and, not least, a daily presentation. It shows that being a world citizen is challenging at times. What happens out there affects us in every way. Climate and war can be the key here. What is happening in Syria and South Sudan shows in all its atrocities how difficult it is for the world community to find solutions that can contribute to peace. But I have great confidence that the United Nations system will be able to find solutions to the major conflicts that we see in the various parts of the world. The hope is that in the end, reason and dialogue will replace the use of advanced weapon systems. We in the Workers' Party share the foreign minister's concern that human rights are being challenged in more and more countries. Every day, millions of people are subjected to human rights violations in some form — from not being allowed to say and think of it as a will in public space or on social media — to being sentenced to death in mass trials, as we have seen in Egypt over the last few days. Today’s news headlines also show that Amnesty’s annual death penalty report is a gloomy reading. The number of public executions has increased by 15 pst. the last year, but the numbers are even worse. Norway has to tell the countries that practise the death penalty that it is totally unacceptable – China, Iraq, Iran or the United States. The Rain Forest Fund has produced a report entitled ‘Human Rights and Resource Conflicts in the Amazon’. The report is a worrying reading because there is an increase in human rights violations in the Amazon region. Here, human rights defenders, environmental protection activists and indigenous people are being attacked and subjected to systematic pressure in respect of rights to natural resources, and not least to participation rights. I mention this in particular, but the struggle for natural resources is germ to conflict in many places – including in Norway, but at a completely different level of conflict. There are many violations of human rights that you could have an opinion about, but personally I cannot help but bring forward the new homologues in Uganda. Imagine risking up to 15 years of prison — and in some cases being killed — to show your love for the one you are happy with! It makes very bad to see that there is that kind of attitude out there in the world. Unfortunately, Uganda is not alone in having such inhuman laws. Many of these countries receive assistance from Norway. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister has said so early and so clearly that there will be changes in our aid policy towards these countries. That the President of Uganda answers that they don't want money from us, we can live with it. The struggle to respect human rights must be waged in many arenas. It's challenging, but it has to be won. There is a cross-political agreement to give full support to the government's reaction to Russia. Jens Stoltenberg said in his speech to the national government meeting on Tuesday: ‘We will not live in a world where there is the strongest right. Small countries such as Norway must also strive for international law to be in force. We are calling about international law.' Wise words – and the same message were also well anchored in the Foreign Minister’s presentation. In the north, people are concerned with the good cooperation that exists between our two nations. But we should not hide the growing fear that people-to-people cooperation could be affected in terms of the good bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia. If we read the BarentsObserver online newspaper from Tuesday, we find that many business actors are concerned that what is happening in the big political arena can have consequences for their activity in the north. I am therefore pleased that the Foreign Minister touches on this challenge – and makes it visible – in his presentation. For the government of Stoltenberg, Northern Region Policy was the most important strategic area of foreign policy, a clear message that I unfortunately did not find as well and clearly formulated in the Foreign Minister's presentation. I note that the government of Solberg in its north-eastern policy is starting from the end of the red-green government, but I am a little surprised at how difficult it is for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other members of the government to recognise the Northern Region policy that has been conducted by the government of Stoltenberg. In this context, I will mention two issues in particular, but many more could have been mentioned – research, education and not least the good work done within the Barents Cooperation and Barents Secretariat. One relates to the part-line agreement, which was signed in 2010, and the other relates to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Both are examples of good foreign-policy craftsmanship in the north, most of which have given the ‘pass’ character. I think it would be a little rusty by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to recognise the important and concrete results achieved in the north by the government of Stoltenberg. That's why I think the representative Norheim of the Progress Party is disrespectful when he uses FLEXES bottles when he wants to describe Stoltenberg's north-eastern policy. I hope the government partner on the right does not get to that level. In the field of security policy too, the government of Stoltenberg took many important political decisions that contributed to a good and predictable relationship with Russia. Although we see a Russia that clearly shows its power status, today there is no reason to fear a change in the threat level in the north. But, of course, we're not going to be naive. I know that a lot of people follow up on what's going on. Nor is there any doubt that Norway exercises its powers in the north in a credible, consistent and predictable manner. Our membership in NATO is the very foundation of our security and defence policy – in the north and in the country, too. I understand that today’s situation requires Norway to respond. On Tuesday, the news came that Norway has decided to suspend all planned bilateral military activities with Russia until the end of May 2014. For this reason, I will end by asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs what his assessment is as to what consequences this can have for security cooperation in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e555	I am very pleased with the broad support the government gets for its foreign policy line and direction. The only exception was SV, which thought that the presentation was weak when it was clear. I disagree. But we have a clear direction away from SV's line, and SV has a clear line away from the red-green government line. In other words, everything is back to normal in the Norwegian foreign policy debate. So to Kåre Simensen, who thought the government should be more out of touch with the North-Green Government's policy. We'd like to be clear, but I think the red-greens should perhaps give the new government more than five months before they judge its northern policy north and down. We go from dialogue to action in the north, and it will be followed up in the months and years to come. In a few months it is 25 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall, a great moment in European history, when the iron carpet between east and west was raised. Next year it is also 70 years since the Yalta Conference, where Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill met, and where the division of Germany was determined. This happened on the Crimean Peninsula, in Yalta. That was the basis, many believe, for the iron carpet, for the sharing of Europe. Then it is no exaggeration that the Foreign Minister describes today's challenges in Ukraine as the greatest we have faced in Europe since World War II. Haven't we come any further? Isn't today's international order developed enough to deal with this type of conflict, or is it still such that the strongest law applies? I really hope not. The government’s foreign policy is therefore based on NATO membership, EEA membership, UN, WTO and other international pillars. Norway is, as a small country with large resources, dependent on this international framework to pursue its foreign policy. The long line is firm, but transatlantic and European cooperation is strongly focused on the government platform. That is why I am pleased with what was stated in the Foreign Minister's statement. The serious situation on the European continent requires the recalibration we have notified on the platform. We find together with our close friends these days. I think it makes sense to talk about the West and Western values. The recent developments in the heart of Europe have shown this, let it be clear. No one is served with a new cold war, no one wants to go back there. We have wanted and continue to want Russia to remain a partner in international cooperation and the good bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia to continue. But the actions of the Russian authorities have recently challenged the entire paradigm after the cold war. The right of independent States to cooperate with whomever they wish must stand firm. Norway has condemned the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia. The use of military power to change national borders must have consequences. The crisis is the result of Russia’s acts of international law in Ukraine. The message from the world community is clear. The vote of the UN Security Council on 15 March shows that Russia is alone. We must be crystal clear in our solidarity with the Ukrainian people and assist economically, together with the EU and the United States, in the future. Norway, like its allies in NATO and the EU, supports the Ukrainian transitional government. With this support, of course, there are demands for reform and settlement with a culture of corruption. In the Foreign Minister's presentation, there was also an important change in pace that was announced, namely to promote economic diplomacy and global trade. This is in line with the government platform’s point that Norwegian foreign service should be an instrument to promote Norwegian business interests abroad. Training and follow-up of Norwegian diplomats is needed. Something was started by the previous government, with Team Norway, but my impression is that it was not followed up well enough. Interaction between trade policy, economic diplomacy, energy policy and development policy is an important step. I now trust that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at home and the outings are now getting the resources and coordination that are needed to carry out the important work to promote Norwegian business interests. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his statement that Statoil's tax payments to Angola represent about 30 billion annually. Kr, i.e. about the total Norwegian aid budget. It says a lot about how much the more than 200,000 Norwegian jobs abroad – i.e. Norwegian jobs abroad – mean. Globalization produces results. Poverty is getting smaller, life is growing, child mortality is falling. Without global trade and open borders, we will not achieve the UN's Millennium Goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e576	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the good presentation, as among others. underlines that this government is taking a step further for the development of our northern regions. We have a government that takes the challenges of going from dialogue to action. The representative Simensen lacks recognition for his own north-eastern policy, and Følling and Huitfeldt are missing concrete measures from this government, but we have committed state councils with power of action that have already implemented several actions in the field of north-eastern action, and that in just a few months. In the State budget for 2014, the government increased the North Region division by 222 million. kr. This must make a difference between increased measures during the year. I am very pleased that the government has invested in increasing security and surveillance of the northern areas, where the Minister of Defense has allocated extra sailing days to the Coast Guard to protect our exposed coast and management and oversight of our valuable marine resources. Norway has the right to have large sea areas with significant responsibilities for maritime safety and preparedness. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has launched a research project on maritime preparedness in the northern regions to ensure that Norway, as an Arctic coastal State, is a driver of environmental protection and maritime safety in the north. In addition, funds are provided for measures to enhance the efficiency and capacity of search and rescue operations in the north. This increased effort brings together increased security and preparedness and helps to ensure the activity, value creation and maritime safety of our marine areas of the North. We have great value creation in North Norway today, especially in fisheries, oil and gas. 30 pst. of the national value added in the marine food industry comes from North Norway. The Minister for Fisheries has a high priority in the development and management of marine resources and industries. There are several exciting, innovative and untapped potentials, and the Minister for Fisheries supports research and stimulates development in the industry. The government is spending a lot on research, because knowledge is the key that gives us the opportunity for new development. I'm sure we'll see increased growth with sustainable measures in the next few years that provide great value creation in several areas of the marine sector. In the context of oil and gas conservation and development, the Minister for Transport has commissioned the Swedish Coastal Agency to look at the possibilities for setting up an environmental and oil protection base in the Lofoten and the West Sea to strengthen technology, product development and oil preparedness capabilities. This work will be completed as early as 2014. The oil and gas industry has made major findings in the north in recent years that have led to increased activity in the Barents Sea. By gradually opening up new areas, we can facilitate increased coastal value creation also in this sector within a sustainable framework. Another industry that also has a high growth potential in North Norway is the mineral industry. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has approved the regulation of Nussir in the municipality of Kvalsund in Finnmark. For a municipality with approx. 1 000 inhabitants are estimated to be mining activities with about 1 000 inhabitants. 150 jobs and an expected annual turnover of 600 to 700 million. kr after the start-up phase a completely invaluable bet. Most of Norway's profitable mineral value is in northern Norway and is estimated at 1 400 billion. kr. With an opening of Nussir and this government's will to bet, this could be the beginning of another adventurous nutrient growth for North Norway. Activities in the north areas have international attention, and the work and importance of Arctic Councils is increasing. Tromsø houses the permanent secretariat of the Arctic Council, and Norway cooperates closely with the Canadian Presidency. It is important that Norway, as an Arctic coastal State, takes ownership and is a driver of the conservation and development of the northern regions. I have great faith that, in the future too, we will continue with performance-oriented north-eastern action and see even more action being taken and providing value creation and growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e594	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e597	Otto von Bismarck is quoted as saying that the great questions of time are not settled by speeches and majority decisions, but by blood and iron. After hearing the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement, I am all the more confident that it is too early to give Bismarck justice. Diplomacy and politics are the relevant forms of conflict resolution. The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave much deserved attention to global trade in his presentation. World trade is fascinating in the sense that it is not a zero-sum game. Analysing one of the least developed countries, non-participation in world trade is a common feature. Market access is not a guarantee of social justice or the development of a liberal democracy, but it is a blow to what Konrad Adenauer called the social market economy. The least developed countries may be assisted by continued duty-free access to the Norwegian market. For a young right-holder, it is important to say that customs freedom must not cease as soon as the MUL countries move out of the deepest need. If we can help the MUL countries find anchor fasts as middle-income countries before changing customs conditions, it is an investment in new markets. Attracting foreign investment is a demanding field but important for creating economic growth in developing countries. It has been raised beyond doubt that, in many cases, private investment is hampered by systematic or unsystematic political risks. Last year, several analysts were able to conclude that risks had decreased in the growth markets after the financial crisis and the Arab spring. If Norway can help to reduce political risk through good governance and against corruption, it will in the long run promote growth. A different perspective on world trade is, of course, the interdependence that is inherently peace-making. The French economist Frédéric Bastiat summed up so succinctly that where people and goods do not cross the borders, soldiers will do it. The centuries that followed were to prove Bastiat's observation with two world wars and then the establishment of a trading community. The current Minister of Foreign Affairs, Halvard Lange, predicted the peace-building of such a community as early as the year before the establishment of the European Coal and Steel Union in 1950. A world cohesive in a market is a more stable and peaceful world. At the same time, stability is at home and out mutually reinforcing. Therefore, it is in Norway’s interest to strengthen our trade cooperation and share experience on good governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e611	One shall be careful to boast of the south-runners – they are easy to take off. I record that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has received a lot of praise, and that is well deserved. This statement was very good. I record that someone does not see any change in the pace and change in the foreign policy of this government, but it is quite clear there. The pace shift of the government will find far more coherent, concentrated policies where foreign policy, aid policy and development policy are increasingly integrated. Foreign policy, aid policy and development policy are not the same – we know that, but it may unfortunately have been influenced by the overall policy so far. Nevertheless, these areas are so closely interrelated that they need to be seen in a wider context: framework conditions, economics and governance. One will affect the other. Development policy is the policy affecting conditions for all people in developing countries. This will therefore include a broad range of policy areas, where the government has pointed to trade and education as the most important part of human rights. Other areas include investment, health, employment, migration and sharing and transfer of new technologies. Global economic growth must be ensured in the future. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘This growth force is necessary to combat poverty and to create all the new 600 million jobs that the International Labour Organisation (ILO) says need to be put in place by 2020. Everyone has to contribute to ensure that we get into the Doha Development Round. Norway, too, must be willing to give in order to achieve something.’ Aid policy is once again part of development policy, but alone cannot be the most important part of development. Assistance must focus on financial assistance aimed at reducing poverty, economic and social progress. Here, too, distribution and, of course, humanitarian crises come into the picture. In addition, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘The government’s development and foreign policy shall contribute to increased democratisation, to the promotion of human rights and to actions that bring people out of poverty. We know that trade, investment and industrial development work together with business. Without a strong private sector with small and medium-sized enterprises there will be no development.» Today, Norwegian aid has spread across many countries, and there are many who wish – even the OECD has pointed out this – that the review needs to be carried out. Foreign policy should take care of Norwegian interests and values – values are becoming more and more globalised. Assistance policies and development policies are important parts of foreign policy with much more. This needs to be coordinated to a much greater extent, and that is how I interpret this statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e636	I will also be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for a good report, which points out that the world is changing, and that from 1990 to 2010, the proportion of extremely poor has been halved. Another funny point is that last year there were seven of the ten economies that grew most, in Africa. In this picture, it is tempting to think of your own interests. I am of those who believe that Africa will be the new China. Many people point to the optimism that actually prevails over the continent – I hope that's right. Using investment, Norwegian trade, private sector to create growth is crucial. That is why I would like to stress, as I did in the exchange of lines with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that our objective in development policy must be job creation, building on further growth, and that growth must benefit the majority of the population. Development policy shall not be mandated to assist Norwegian companies by sponsorship in order to win contracts or enter the market. That's the big difference I think we have to be clear on. Development policy shall have a mandate to fight for the poorest. We have other channels to promote Norwegian interests otherwise. Sometimes I experience that when we discuss the poor, we talk about Africa, Asia or Latin America as if it were one country, but it's continents. We're talking about one group instead of going into the big differences that are there. 112 countries, yes, there are many, but there are enormous differences between countries. This means that we have to rectify the assistance differently. 70 pst. by the poorest in the world living in middle-income countries. I think there is quite a consensus here that bilateral assistance should not necessarily be given to China or India – the major countries that really should meet the poverty challenges themselves. This means that we can use assistance, for example. through civil society to reach the poorest there. It's something completely different. Bilateral aid can also be directed at the poorest countries. We talk quickly about aid as if aid were the same everywhere. I would like to encourage that we are also clear on talking about multilateral assistance, bilateral assistance or assistance through civil society. Then we target the use towards those countries where there is a great difference, and also against the people we want the help to reach. That is why I would also like to make it clear that assistance through civil society is very effective and its use should be increased. In 2005 it was 6 pst. of the aid budget, today it is only 4,5 pst. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs has just lifted up, the concentration of bilateral aid should go to fewer countries, but not to civil society aid, and that we look at what the OECD said, namely that the largest countries will get more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e649	Access to markets globally and locally is crucial for poor countries to develop a viable and profitable business. Fair, global framework conditions that guarantee equal access, and that contribute to poverty and development, are decisive to achieve this. Trade and industrial development is undoubtedly an important part of development policy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs warned that the government wants a shift in the pace of global trade and that the government has started work on a communication to the UK on the importance of a policy for globalisation and free trade. Honor the government of the Left! We look forward to receiving the staging message and managing it. The left also shares the wish of the Foreign Minister that we should come to terms with the Doha Round. There will be a significant contribution to securing economic growth globally in the coming years, which is again needed to fight poverty and to develop new jobs. Of course, a trade regime that takes care of the interests of developing countries and concerns about efficient use of resources is for the Left. It is clear that everyone has to contribute to ensure that we get to the Doha Round – also Norway. The welfare level in Norway would not have been possible without an international legal order and a functioning global trade. Open markets with low barriers to trade and investment are necessary to stimulate economic growth. For Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises, free imports of inputs, new machinery and technological equipment are also important in order to maintain productivity and competitiveness in export markets. Trade and investment contribute to making Norwegian enterprises competitive, open borders provide daily market impulses for conversion and change, and not least to continuous technology and competence enhancement and innovation. Last summer, the United States and the EU launched negotiations on a new and wide free trade agreement – potentially the largest bilateral agreement in history with great significance also for our Norwegian business and value creation. It is important that we do not end up in a situation where Norwegian companies have poorer access to US markets than competing companies in the EU – it is hoped that a government that has prioritised contact and relationship with the EU is unnecessary, but the Left has argued that the government is active in EFTA and can do what can to bring about parallel negotiations to secure Norwegian interests in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e664	The centre party will bring forward a theme related to border control or more precisely – perhaps a risk of missing border control. From May 2012, Norwegian authorities made it easier to cross borders in the Norwegian-Russian border area. This scheme provides the right to an unlimited number of passages up to 15 days for persons residing in a 30 km zone from the Norwegian-Russia border. Checks are carried out such as document checks, personal checks and vehicle checks. Traffic in the last four years has increased by over 100 pst. While the station has a capacity of 175 000 crossings per year, the number in 2013 showed 320000 crossings, and the 2014 forecast is over 400000 crossings. Increased hours of opening and increased traffic have resulted in long queues, few additions, increased labour pressure, and several minor additions have been made. Norway cannot be lit with a border crossing point where the maximum capacity has been exceeded and where one is at risk of not complying with the requirements of the Schengen Agreement to 100 pst. border control. There are plans for a new building in Storskog, but the progress in this project seems to have stopped. There will be a good North Sea effort to support the rate of development, ensure that the work on new construction does not stop and that no new distributions are made, so that this important border action can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e675	I want to thank you for a good debate, although I have to say that Solhjell's contributions provoked me to make a little more comment. Solhell says the government has no projects. Then I have to ask if we have heard the same statement. Did he not get along with the reform of Norwegian development policy, referred to as three pace shifts: promoting global trade and economic diplomacy, global leadership for education as the basis for sustainable development and poverty reduction, and thus getting the first global report on human rights in 15 years? As others have said, the criticism from Solhjell shows that we are on the right track. Then his criticism and comparison with Iraq. What we have witnessed in the Crimean Peninsula and the intervention in Iraq in 2003 is not comparable. In Ukraine, we are dealing with a peaceful population who applied for a different course towards the EU and a government that has been pressured from its large neighbour in the east. In Iraq, we were dealing with a despot. We were dealing with an intervention against a despot who was behind gassing and massive human rights violations against his own people. Today we are dealing with the annexation of parts of a democratic country. And there is no other country in Iraq today. The history of SV is well known. The Socialist People's Party was founded on its resistance to NATO and its sympathies with the Soviet Union. It must be frustrating today to see that NATO has succeeded, not least with its great project of Partnership for Peace. We know the Soviet Union – it failed to do so – and now we see Russia's aggressive annexation of parts of a democratic country. I'm putting this into my liberal interpretation of Solhjell's posts here today. It must be frustrating to see that the values you've stood for have not won, and that what you've fought against has worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e688	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation and also thank you for the debate. I want to bring up some themes. First, I would like to stress that the Left appreciates the weight that was also attached to international climate work, and the work that must be done towards Paris and the conversation in order to get an international agreement in 2015. It is the biggest challenge facing the world, and it must be a central part of Norwegian foreign policy to get an agreement in place. So we want to reduce the emissions by 80 pst. towards 2050 in order to avoid global warming, with its consequences, whether there is a shortage of water, displaced persons from areas, etc. We have to deal with this environmental work, which is a huge task, while at the same time dealing with ongoing crises. In this debate and right now, we are in a crisis in the Crimea Peninsula, in the relationship between Russia and Ukraine and in the relationship between Russia, NATO and the EU. Like many others, we greatly appreciate the determination and firmness that the Foreign Minister has shown until now in the process we are in. But I want to stress that we're still early in this process. We have still only gone a short way with the sanctions imposed on Russia from the West, and for me it is difficult to see how we can get out of the situation we are now in, when we have a military intervention on the Crimea Peninsula and also an annexation of the Crimea Peninsula in a short time. So I think we also have to prepare ourselves for this to be more long-term, that more serious sanctions are needed that will also have economic negative consequences, including for Norway. We also need to be prepared for this to cause damage to the relationship between Norway and Russia during the period we are now entering. Because, after all, this is not just about the relationship between Russia and the West. It is also about the entire position of the West internationally. Of course, other countries are also looking at whether they are willing to impose strong sanctions, whether they are Iran, China or other countries. One thing is to look at the sanctions against Russia. We in the Left are pleased that free trade talks and negotiations have now been suspended, but I would like to stress that it is also important to look at how we can strengthen economic cooperation – not only with Ukraine, but also with Moldova and Georgia, which are also countries with strong Russian pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e699	It's not supposed to pull out the debate, but when you have 3 minutes, you raise one so very little in the post, so I drew it again. I want to raise another dilemma that I sometimes think we simplify a little, in development policy and in particular in aid policy. Because we are really discussing aid policy almost as if it were Norwegian domestic policy. At least we tend to, because we know very well what we think is good about Norway, and we wish that other countries had copied it. I just want to say -- a little bit in the context that I was talking about instead -- that aid should not be about pushing our solutions to the poor, it should be privatisation for the World Bank that some people have their objections to, it should be self-determined abortion that one can also discuss. But that doesn't mean we're going to go away from our values or stop being clear about what we stand for. I think we're more respectful if we're clear on what we stand for. What Uganda did – with changes in laws and possible death penalty for homosexuals – is reprehensible. There's a violation of human rights; we're going to be clear on that. But I also think there are some dilemmas associated with it. The fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was clear about freezing aid to Uganda, I think it was right. But I also see the challenges it can give, against how we can contribute with other instruments we have, to help the poorest in Uganda. After all, the National Association of lesbians, gays, biphiles, and transgenders was clear that it could create challenges for even the gays in Uganda. I sat and listened to Kjell Roland who presented his and Øyvind Egg's book. He drew up an interesting, but a little special example. It was with an American who came to Norway. He saw a lady from the rum people sitting and begging outside the Stortinget, and had to think about how a country like Norway could have poor people sitting there. Then he said, "Let's call some Norwegian politicians, pick up at Soria Moria – at a hotel – and have a seminar on how to help the poor." There are some challenges related to how we meet individual countries. The human rights situation in Russia is challenging, the human rights situation in Uganda is challenging, but we may meet them in a slightly different way. There is hardly any country where there is a greater difference between poor and rich than in the United States. But it wouldn't fall for me to visit Congress in the United States and call a seminar group. But once I have traveled with KRU to Uganda or Kenya and have been allowed to cooperate with politicians there, I have to admit that I have been doing some seminar activities. The dilemma in development policy is that we must listen to the poor. As I said before, Africa is growing crazy, something is happening, they're educating leaders. So we can disagree with much of what they stand for, but having an understanding of religion and culture in this work is incredibly important. If we're going to be involved and make a difference for the poor, we also have to have that perspective with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e712	It's good that the government is able to create enthusiasm because what they think is their projects in their own size groups and size fractions. I see no development policy project, except to cut the number on land, which has been the big debate today – raised as the big one. But what I'm drawing in Halleraker's posts was what I could see as a pretty gross insult, but I think there must only be a limitless lack of historical insight. Yes, the Socialist People's Party was formed on NATO resistance in 1961. But the formation of a defense of the Soviet Union – did I hear correctly? I want to ask for one to come with the smallest kind of documentation on it. I have read more books about SV and SF's history, I have written articles about the problematic aspects in the history of our party and other parties. Never have I found a defense for the Soviet Union anywhere. Socialist People's Party, later SV, was formed on what was the third position. It was the idea that you should have the same standard of policy for all the major acts – violations of human rights when they arrive at invasions in other countries. Therefore, SV criticized both the invasion of Afghanistan and US violations of international law and human rights in Latin America, while others in Norwegian politics saw between fingers with one and criticized the other. That's why we've been critical of the upgrading both east and west throughout our history. The third position is a relevant position today, too, because there is still a need for one to have the same standards for all major powers when they deal with them. Of course, it is true that Iraq and Ukraine are different situations. All wars and conflicts are different. But they have something in common, simply that it was a violation of international law that was behind the US leadership invasion of Iraq, just as it is a violation of international law to invade Crimea. Both should be condemned. But in Norway there were many support players in the Right and the Progress Party to participate in the invasion of Iraq. It's also a comparable thing, that the invasion of Iraq turned out to be built on a lie -- on claims that were not true. Let's call about the defense of international law presented here in the hall from all parties, but let's take it further to also apply to all future situations, not only when it suits one. Representatives, not least from the Right and the Advance Party, should be included. So I thought that the representative Halleraker would get involved in the history of the Socialist People's Party and the SV, if he's going to comment on it in the future, and look for something that reminds me of evidence for a defense for the Soviet Union. Otherwise I put the claim dead and powerless.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e728	We could not allow this debate to end with an insight into SV's history. But I understand that the representative Solhjell and SV have a challenge with the new government, when, to those degrees, a policy that needs to be reformed in order for you to get even more poor out of misery and for you to develop in a number of other countries as well. It is then that the market economy needs to get back into the picture to get even more countries out of it. It became a little hesitant with three minutes in my first post, so I start almost up again at my end to get with the whole. The foreign policy shall primarily take care of Norwegian interests and values. However, the world is becoming more and more globalized. Assistance policies and development policies are important areas and parts of foreign policy — but much more so. That is why it is so important that this government should coordinate much more and see the whole of all these areas. It will be crucial for us to succeed in raising millions more of people out of poverty and social distress through the market economy, trade and education. That's what this government is doing in its pace shift in Norwegian foreign policy. So the representative Solhell doesn't see any major reforms here, except this with the number of countries. But to me, it is the overarching policy of this government, which is important – to see the link between aid, development and foreign policy, which has been individually important and more focused in the past. Now it's going to be much more coordinated. Then it's a little strange that the representative Solhjell also doesn't record that this government has had a strong focus on and given a significant boost to education, especially linked to women and children, as the previous government, in which the representative Solhjell represented, actually reduced and cut. At least that must be positive. So I'll end by saying that human rights can never be relativized. It will be an important area for this government. But in that context, I would say that we should be clear about what the fundamental rights of human rights are actually. It is still, and will continue to be, equivalency, equality, freedom of expression and personal freedom. All these areas are under strong pressure, including in Norway. That is why all fanaticism and intolerant forms of ideology must be strongly combated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e741	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for a very good and constructive debate. In a situation where we in Europe face the most serious security policy challenge since the Cold War, it is good that we in Norway can stand together on both the condemnation of international law violations and a broad consensus that, when an invitation is not accepted to find policy solutions in a multilateral context, as it has been issued to Russia, economic restrictive measures are followed up. We have also made it clear that if we see further aggression in Ukraine and possibly military escalation, there will be new restrictive measures. But I hope that it is now possible to find good political solutions to stabilise Ukraine. The situation in the northern regions was also addressed. Norway wants to continue dialogue and people-to-people cooperation in the north. With this government, there is an offensive north-eastern policy, and I think, with all due respect, that I should be given a few months to show that we are delivering in this field. The Northern Region policy that Jan Petersen started, which was pursued in an active and good way by the previous government, is now going to bring us from dialogue to action. A number of key elements have been identified as a more offensive industrial policy in terms of mineral use, oil, gas, the environment and focusing on knowledge environments. This is coming, and it will be an important bet. Then it has been important to have a debate on development policy that shows many dimensions of it – that trade, the release into our markets of developing countries, can be as important as pure assistance. I have not been told that there has been any disagreement about the change of pace I have made there, I think that is good. The new commitment to economic diplomacy and, not least, the training effort also seems to have widened. We need to increase the educational effort, because it's been falling somewhat for a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e754	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e757	I obviously managed to provoke the representative, Solhjell, to make a counterpost after his little history description. I live well with that. We disagree here, and those who study history will have to assess who gets right. What is certain, in any case, is that the clear and ongoing debate in Sweden and Finland on the security policy of the countries following the Ukraine crisis shows that the reasons for Norway’s membership in NATO and the elections that Norway wisely did have been and will continue to be so. We live with the security that the alliance gives us, and we're going to be happy for that. I would like to remind the representative, Mr Solhjell, that the Bondevik government chose the United Nations track.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e766	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e769	One can't just pull out one claim that another party has formed a defense for the Soviet Union and say it makes the historians decide. The representative, Halleraker, is responsible for the leadership of his party's fraction in the Foreign Affairs Committee. He gets to document it and make contact, or he gets to put the claim dead and powerless – as the senseless nominee was. Then we have an explanation problem in the aid policy, as the representative Sandberg said. I thought we had a lot to be proud of, I thought we got a lot, with 1 pst. to focus on health, equality and climate, which is passed on by this government. We're notifying an escalation of education, as the government has made a big project. Everything is very good. The OECD gives good policy criticism – other evaluations, the same. Is that an improvement potential? Definitely, it always is. But let me say in a conciliatory tone that if this is a sign of a big project that everyone can see – or if it's hard to see a big project, as I said, it's time to show. It's up to the government to prove that, hopefully, it's a big bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e780	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e801	I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is working on the UN's Millennium Goals, and as far as the Millennium Goals and Education are concerned, we have come a long way – much more is now being trained than before. But we see that there are people who systematically fall outside, and that's among other things. disabled persons. We know that nine out of ten disabled people don't get education. My question is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs will do to raise this focus. If we look at discrimination against people with disabilities in the world, it takes many forms. There is direct discrimination, but perhaps the most difficult form of discrimination against people with disabilities to combat is invisibility. That's why I was committed to raising this interpellant debate, because all the political parties have had great goals in this area, but we have evaluation reports that show that we haven't achieved far in terms of results. What we're told is that we need better measurement mechanisms and data acquisition to see if we can achieve the good measurements that we have in this area. We also know that in crises and conflicts – where we provide humanitarian assistance – disabled people are often hit hardest. They receive less education and are also more exposed to violence. UNICEF has produced a report entitled ‘The State of the World’s Children 2013’, which shows that disabled children, especially girls, have less access to education than other children. I am very interested to hear what is the foreign minister's view and focus in this area. Norad has also given us a report, in March 2012, that shows that we are engaged in so-called ‘mainstreaming’ in development policy, but that we have not achieved enough to prioritise this in particular in the beneficiary countries. The Interpellation text states that Norway has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and thus we have also committed ourselves to playing an active role in this area. In addition to focusing heavily on this in the development policy of dialogue with other countries, I believe that this has to do with nutrition and health as well. We know that many people in the world are being misnourished, and this contributes to many being disabled. I also know that the World Health Organisation has 13 areas of activity, and it is also a matter of action. on the prevention and reduction of disability. GAVI is part of this work, but we have to build on this also in the work on the situation of pregnant women. The Atlas Alliance is doing an important job by focusing on this in Norway and internationally. I could also imagine knowing what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing to make the cooperation with the Atlas Alliance concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e818	The starting point for Norway’s international efforts is that all people should have equal rights and opportunities for a good life, regardless of sex, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation and function. 15 pst. of the world’s population — over 1 billion people — live with disabilities. Of these, 80 are alive. in developing countries. I think it is important that Huitfeldt's representative raise a topic about a vulnerable group, and we see that there are children with disabilities, as well as children living in war and conflict areas, who have the greatest risk of not getting education. In addition, there is a question of values and equivalency. Efforts for people with disabilities are necessary in order to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves in a thousand years' time. While respecting the rights of its citizens is the responsibility of each country itself, Norwegian foreign and development policies should focus and support this work. Central areas of activity in our international efforts for people with disabilities are education, humanitarian aid, health and work with women and gender equality. Norway ratified the Convention for Disabled Persons in 2013. In our follow-up to the UN High Level Meeting on People with Disabilities and Development in 2013, we place particular emphasis on facilitating everyone to participate and contribute to societal development. The promotion of human rights is central to the government’s development and foreign policy. We have decided – as I mentioned before for the Stortinget – to present the first communication on human rights to the Storing in 15 years. We are intensifying efforts to promote human rights through more systematic use of our foreign and development policy instruments. The Communication will also focus on how our approach can embrace a wide range of vulnerable and vulnerable groups, including people with disabilities. This government has education as a main field of activity. Support for education has already been increased by 15 pst. this year. The challenge has been that the training effort has fallen in recent years. Norway shall now take a lead in the field of education. Over the last eight years, the proportion of Norwegian education aid has been reduced. I'm going to change this, this is one of this government's important projects. The UNICEF World Children’s Status Report 2013 was dedicated to disabled children. The report clearly shows the challenges we face. Norway addresses issues related to the rights of disabled persons in different multilateral fora. In Norway’s cooperation with UNICEF, efforts for disabled children are very relevant. Norway is the third largest contributor to UNICEF. We are a member of the board and have ongoing dialogue with the organisation on these issues. In the UN Human Rights Council, land hearings, the so-called UPR mechanism, are an important tool for addressing challenges in each country. We would like to receive input from civil society on specific land hearings where Norway should address the rights of people with disabilities. Civil society plays an important role in the promotion of the rights of people with disabilities. Voluntary organisations influence and are responsible for the authorities. Through the cooperation agreement with the Atlas Alliance, which is doing a very good job, and other partners, we support organisations in developing countries. The Atlas Alliance has a multiannual cooperation agreement with Norad, with an annual grant of 79 million. kr, covering projects in Africa and Asia. In 2013, the Atlas Alliance received further support for work on the right of disabled children to education in conflict and disaster situations in Sudan, northern Uganda and Palestine. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also supports the Global Network International Disability Alliance and the MIF to the United Nations Partnership for the Promotion of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Work on disabled persons is an important part of Norway’s humanitarian efforts. Norway has had a leading role in international work for almost two decades, first under the Mines Convention and later under the Classammunition Convention. In recent years, Norway has worked specifically to highlight that the situation of victims of mines and class weapons is a human rights issue. There the previous government made a great effort. The proportion of children with disabilities is higher in conflict and disaster areas. Norway is committed to giving children access to primary schools in these areas. Norway is working to give people with disabilities special attention in setting the new Millennium Goals after 2015 and in developing new sustainability goals. Norway has supported the High Level Panel of the Secretary-General, which, in its report, establishes the ‘leave nobody behinder’ principle. The objectives shall be deemed to be achieved only if they have been achieved for all groups. During the Norad conference on health and education in December, I highlighted the situation of people with disabilities as a special consideration in the work on the Millennium Goals beyond 2015. We also underlined this during the High Level Meeting on Gender Equality at the UN General Assembly. We have close contact with the Atlas Alliance and other partners to discuss how the disabled best can be included in the Millennium Goals and the post-2015 agenda. The right to health for disabled persons must also be ensured in our international efforts. The World Health Organisation has developed a global action plan to ensure better health for people with disabilities. Norway is a significant donor to the WHO. The ongoing dialogue between the Governing Board and the World Health Assembly is also important in order to safeguard the interests of people with disabilities. Norway supports cooperation between the Statistical Central Agency and the WHO on the development of a global questionnaire on the living conditions of people with disabilities. It is essential that our efforts for health, education and human rights include people with disabilities. This is a question of fundamental values and equivalency and how we are to achieve key objectives in foreign and development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e869	I thank you for a good answer. The government is in the process of implementing the human rights and education message. In this context, I would like to say that I have clear expectations that disabled people will be very well integrated into this work. If we don't keep paying attention, it becomes less priority of this work. Although there has been broad political agreement in this Chamber on prioritising the higher, we also have evaluation reports that show that we have not been good enough. When the Minister of Development is now so concerned about the share of education aid, it might be interesting to hear whether he wants to increase the proportion of disabled people in assistance. It would also be a bold political goal if we first measured which part of the development policy we need to strengthen. So my expectations are linked to this with the Millennium Goals, because focusing more on people with disabilities is crucial to our success. I would also like to underline the cooperation with the Atlas Alliance, because they have a very good international network. One thing is to integrate this into development policy, but the human rights cooperation that members of the Atlas Alliance have in very many countries is important to strengthen the voice of civil society in developing countries. I expect a lot of the two major messages. I would also like to receive an answer as to whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs wants to increase the proportion of people with disabilities as part of the assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e882	Again, thank you to the interpellant for raising such an important theme as the right of disabled people to access, among other things. education and – as I added – health. In the big news of human rights, coming to the autumn — the first in 15 years — the situation of people with disabilities will be an essential element. This is not only about rights, but also about values. As I said in my post, it is such that every country has an obligation to care for people with disabilities. We should contribute to good systems that provide the right incentives for countries to take greater responsibility in this area themselves. We will also present our own survey on the place of education in development policy. We need to reverse the trend where we have seen that the share of education in the total assistance over the last eight years has gone from about. 9 pst. down to 7 pst. by the aid budget. There will be a sharp increase, which must come not least because education has been neglected by the government in recent years. Already now we have increased the appropriations by 15 pst. There'll be more. When raising the educational effort, a significant part will also be devoted to the ability of disabled people to receive education. Education becomes a bet area. There will also be the right and the possibility for disabled children to have access to education. I think it's now become a broad consensus on this. However, there is no doubt that the lack of investment in education — not only the lack of investment, but the relative weakening of the training effort to Norway in recent years — in the last eight years — has weakened Norway’s leadership in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e893	Ten months ago – on 14 May 2013 – Laila Gustavsen from the Workers' Party promoted an interaction with almost the same question that Anniken Huitfeldt has raised today. The representative Gustavsen may have felt that disabled people had not been a clear target group for Norwegian policy internationally over the seven and a half years of their own government. It could be tempting to think that the interpellant of today was not satisfied with the response of his government colleague SV-State Council Holmås in the interpellation debate that day, and therefore raises the question again today, a few months later, with greater confidence in the new government. I can understand that, because both a 2012 study from Norad and an ad hoc study from the Atlas Alliance from February this year show that this area has been very quiet. In the period 2000–2012, the budgetary resources allocated to targeted measures for the disabled were reduced from 1 pst. to 0.5 pst. of the total aid budget. To refer to it a minister who was in this room yesterday, said: This government is properly implementing, but it does not have retroactive effect. I am aware that this study involves several uncertainties, including: in the case of multilateral efforts. Following the ratification by Norway of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, there has been a small increase in the efforts of disabled people, including those with disabilities. through the U.D. allocations to UNICEF. Nevertheless, I believe we can say that Norway spent too long – about seven years from we signed until we ratified the UN Convention in 2013. That the promise came last year, doesn't make us exactly a country in the field. This Convention obliges countries in a very ambitious way. The main purpose of the Convention is to ensure equal opportunities for disabled persons to realise their human rights and to reduce obstacles to them. The Convention shall contribute to the fight against discrimination on grounds of disability. Norway has now made itself known to the values described here. But the obligations of the resolution do not stop at the national border. These are standards that we want to apply in our society. Then we can do nothing less than think that there are standards and values that we must also want for the communities of others. It's the interpellant and I agree with the heart. Human rights are central to Norwegian policy, both at home and outside. This government platform has a strong focus on human rights in general and it is important to have an active use of human rights also in development cooperation, in particular with regard to vulnerable groups, such as disabled persons. The Council of State well explained the will to do so in its response to the inter-pellant. All people shall have equal rights and equal opportunities for a good life, regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or functionality. The right to education is fundamental and education is essential for all children to become independent and to obtain employment and the future. But some children are to a greater extent excluded from this possibility. One third of all children without access to primary school live with some form of disability. The world must do something about this, and then it is important to work for children with disabilities to receive schooling, not least in humanitarian crisis areas where the proportion of children with disabilities is higher than elsewhere. That's why it's great that the Prime Minister himself is facing the fact that during this period the aid for education will escalate. In this context, a priority area would just be to contribute to ensuring that disabled persons do not fall outside the education system. Education for all means that marginalised groups need to be given more focus to be lifted. That's why it's great that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is warning a big message about human rights, because the inclusion of disabled people is a human rights issue. It is a challenge that every society must address, and that Norway must at all times make clear, as the Council of State stated. Respect for the existing civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of people with disabilities must be required. Many countries have gone a long way in understanding disability. It shall no longer be ‘only’ a health challenge. It is not primarily a social policy issue of aid, but a question of legal equality — yes, just human rights. For this reason, Norway must give political priority to this issue in relation to the countries with which it engages in development policy. Norway should also require support for the work of the co-workers and the promoters of the organisations of the disabled. The Atlas Alliance has been brought forward earlier today. They're good co-players and good examples, both here at home and out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e916	The Progress Party is pleased that Norwegian foreign and development policies focus and support the work to improve the situation of the weakest in developing countries. Unfortunately, the disabled are the most affected, and therefore need special attention, especially for women with disabilities, as the interpellant has pointed out, which is an even more vulnerable group, not least the victim of violence and sexual assault. For almost 20 years, Norway has played a leading role internationally in this work. The Progress Party is pleased that the government is focusing on those who are injured as a result of acts of war, and the challenges facing disabled people with this background cause. The government has shown that it is following up and further developing policy in this area. It is important that this is a direction that is also followed in the years to come. We have benefited from the contact with the Atlas Alliance – I think most people can sign it here – and others too, to get a good overview of the challenges and the state that are in this field. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has also said that the government has close contact with the Atlas Alliance and other partners, also to discuss how disabled people can best be included in the Millennium Goals and the post-2015 agenda. Norway is a major donor to the World Health Organisation, and through this work we contribute, among other things. to develop a global action plan to ensure better health for people with disabilities. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the responsibility of each country to respect the rights of people with disabilities, but Norwegian foreign and development policies should support this work, and this important work should continue through the organisations of disabled people’s stakeholders. That, I think, is a very clear and important emphasis. Finally, I don't want to hide that it feels a bit special when the Workers' Party is now raising the debate on this important area and pointing out how bad it is to achieve goals in this field. I fully agree with that. But some people have had eight years of pure majoritying to make a bigger difference and get a better goal achievement linked to the field we are discussing today. So a little bit special I'm going to admit that it feels. The promotion of human rights in development and foreign policy shall be a priority under the new government. It's been 15 years since the last time there was a big message about human rights. That has already been pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs today. But it says a little, and I'm glad that the Foreign Minister is now showing the power of action by noticing that there is just such a message now. In addition, a separate notification of training efforts has been notified as part of the development policy. This shows that the government has sorted its priorities correctly. Disability rights are about fundamental human rights, integration of the needs of people with disabilities, and rights related to education and health in development are very important. Therefore it is good that we now stand together in this field. The weakening of support for education in recent years shows quite clearly that we have not always been as united as we are now. I share that confidence in the new government that Huitfeldt's representative today presents through his interpellation, which can also be interpreted as a retrospective criticism of the last few years – eight years – under red-green rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e937	The Christian People's Party believes that we must place greater emphasis on the rights of the disabled in foreign policy. It must be on the agenda of political contact with the governmental powers of other countries. The importance of these disabled people must be included in all relevant development cooperation. Specific projects aimed at disabled people need to be increased, but even more important is the introduction of disability rights into all sectors of society: education, health services, employment policy, etc. Here we must not think small and isolated, but big and integrated. What's the big deal in the poorest countries? Well, in sub-Saharan Africa, there's 90 pst. by disabled children without schooling, and they are most severely affected by both discrimination, stigma, violence and abuse. I have personally learned and seen from my work in South America, in Peru, among other things, that disabled children are being hidden away. They didn't even get to come out and be in contact with other children and have social contacts. The quality of life and the dignity of these children were completely unknown. That's why we need good vigilance in this field in our society. Let me, from the Christian People's Party's side, extend a great thank you to their disabled organisations in Norway, and let me thank the Atlas Alliance and others who have raised the work of disabled people in developing countries. At a time when so much foreign policy is to be targeted against Norwegian interests, it is good to hear clear voices tell that there are values to fight for that not only for our national interests but for poor, persecuted and discriminated against fellow human rights and interests. We have to look at something bigger than what we're looking for out of our own interest, and the name of this "greater" is just right. After the Consolation of the Storting, Norway was able to ratify last June the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and the Convention obliges us. People with disabilities should have a life of independence and be able to participate fully in all areas of life. The Convention shall ensure respect for the current civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of people with disabilities. States are obliged to implement civil and political rights immediately. In practice, this means that people with disabilities in many poor countries have to wait a long time for many of their rights to be met. It is so important for Norway to take responsibility for both political and practical development cooperation. We have to be involved and promote greater justice for our disabled fellow human beings. For the Christian People's Party, this is an important task, and therefore we also highlighted the work of the disabled in the major debate before Christmas on the aid budget for 2014. I would therefore also like to thank the representative, Mr Huitfeldt, for taking up this interpellation, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Burnde, for the constructive and clear contribution he made a little while ago. The debate shows a broad consensus. The challenge is to put this into practice from word to action. Norad’s statistics show that the part of Norwegian assistance specifically for disability interventions has fallen from 1 pst. in the year 2000 to barely 0.5 pst. in the last few years. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' policy document in this area is unknown to many of the ambassadors who would follow up. In practice, this means that too little is done to integrate the concerns of people with disabilities into general development cooperation. I am very pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs acknowledges civil society and the voluntary organisations, who also do important and great work within the theme addressed by this interpellation. A new action plan would be good, where quality of life, dignity and human rights are at the heart and where words become action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e956	I want to commend Anniken Huitfeldt, who now gives us the opportunity to discuss a major issue that receives little attention: inclusion of disabled people in Norwegian development work. Three red-green state councils, Heikki Holmås, Espen Barth Eide and Inga Marte Thorkildsen, were behind in 2013 a policy document that showed a clear willingness to bet more on disabled people in Norwegian development work. The declaration was related to the ratification by Norway of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The question now is how this is being followed up further by Børge Brende and the government. The document underlines the importance of an integrated approach to the rights of people with disabilities, including education, equality, health, humanitarian action and international cooperation. Norway’s assistance to disabled people remains below 0,5 pst. of Norway’s assistance. It's so marginal that it can hardly be called a bet. Disabled people receive so little resources and attention in Norwegian assistance that Norwegian embassies also do not know Norway’s policy in this area. It tells the Atlas Alliance leader, Morten Eriksen, to Aid Current. The SV believes that Norway has to deliver its first report to the UN for the implementation of the Convention in 2015. I hope the Foreign Minister can inform the Storting about how he will follow up Article 32 of the United Nations Convention on International Cooperation in Practice. Disabled persons are overrepresented among the poor and make up 20 pst. by the world's poorest. Disabled people are therefore particularly affected by climate change and natural disasters. We also know that the lack of food safety leads to disability. An estimated 20 pst. disability arises due to misnutrition. Human rights are an important principle of humanitarian action, together with the principles of participation and non-discrimination. How will the government specifically ensure that disabled people are included in Norway's humanitarian efforts, such as emergency plans, operational emergency work and reconstruction, such as universal design of homes, latrines and schools, and food distribution that also reaches disabled people? It's often a sea of goodwill when politicians talk about disabled people. But when you talk about one of the world's largest minorities, who are also some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable in wars and crises, it doesn't help with goodwill as long as it's not followed up in practice. The debate today is a start. SV expects the Minister of Foreign Affairs to give priority to the inclusion of disabled people in the aid work and will follow the matter closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e973	I would like to thank you for a good discussion, which shows a great commitment to this hall for disabled people in the field of assistance. I also believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a very good answer the first time he answered. But there is one thing I have to say I reacted to: When I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he wants to increase the proportion of assistance to disabled people – because it is quite right, as the representative of the Christian People's Party says, that the proportion has fallen from 1 pst. to 0.5 pst. – he responds to a frontal attack on the previous government, not with regard to policies in relation to the disabled, but in an entirely different area, namely the work on education. It underlines my point that the greatest threat to this in development policy is to make it invisible that there is no focus on it. When I asked the foreign minister in this room for help, because I think we should be together on 1 pst., I have been told that it is the quality that plays a role, not the percentage. Now when he wants to give more to education, he thinks it's very important that he should increase his share, even though we know that the number of billions of dollars for education has been the same. But now he's going to have an opportunity to answer my question: he's busy increasing the share of education, but will he increase the share of the disabled? If he believes that the share of education is so important, he should also be concerned about this in the case of disabled persons. Otherwise, I thank him for wanting to incorporate this into a lot of the documents that are submitted to the Stortinget, both in terms of human rights, and a big message about education. But will the Foreign Minister increase assistance to disabled people as a share of the aid budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e984	Once again, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic, namely the rights of disabled people in developing countries. The reason why I connected it very closely to education is that disabled people have more difficulty accessing education in developing countries than other groups. They're marginalized. If you are to succeed in raising people with disabilities in general, and especially in developing countries, you also need to increase your investment in education. I understand that it may be hard for the previous government parties to breast-feed that I remember that in recent years there has been a reduction in the percentage of Norwegian aid going to education, but that is a fact, and this government is going to change that. And I understand the opposition right, we get support for lifting education and for Norway to axis the global leadership trough within that area. When we're going to spend more resources on education in developing countries, especially for girls, and especially for disabled and other marginalised groups, as well as in war and conflict areas, I see there is a broad consensus in the Stortingen on this. I think it is good that we are now turning around a development where the proportion of Norwegian development aid that has gone to disabled people has fallen in recent years. Now I understand that there is agreement that we should work to increase this – after it has fallen, even within education – because there is a close link between what we grant for education and what we get for disabled people. There's nothing better, because both of them I'm going to do, and if we can get a big boost in the Storting to increase the educational effort and increase the bet on the disabled, that's great. The reason why I too became a little engaged – as the committee leader became – was that it is very great about the involvement of the Workers' Party and SV in this matter, but after both the educational effort and the efforts on disabled people have fallen in recent years, as a relative share, I might have been a little softer at the edge when I had promoted this. But leave it. The important thing here is that we can reach a broad consensus on this investment in the future. And again, I think it's good that this is now being addressed. I think it has been a good debate. Then there was also a little temperature towards the end, and it does not damage after several hours of foreign policy debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e998	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1012	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1021	In this case, we handle the Sametinget's Annual Report for 2012. As noted in the comments of a Joint Committee, this matter was adopted at Sametinget on 28 February 2013, and it was submitted by the Stoltenberg II Government. When it comes to the work of the committee, there were many new recordings in the final phase, and comments were made at the very end, and so it was. It may not have been quite after the book, but at least the committee was able to present the matter within the deadlines set. Report. St. 48 for 2012–2013 is the first joint policy case to be dealt with in this Storting, when one ignores the budgetary management last fall. This means that many of the comments from the various parties are based on new positions and governments. The Government Party and the Cooperation Party indicate that it is important and valuable for Norway to take care of Sami language, culture and tradition. Norwegian and Sami are equivalent languages, and these parties will establish cooperation in the case of Sami languages across borders. The same parties also indicate that the government will develop Sami business and travel related to Sami culture and traditional Sami industries. The Government Party and the Cooperation Party will also maintain the Sametinget and the consultation arrangements between the Sametinget, Stortinget and the Government. When it comes to the other committee comments, the parties themselves are allowed to do well for them. I'll use the rest of the post to comment on the theme that's important to the Right in this big message. Right refers to the fact that the state of Norway is originally established on the territory of two peoples, Samaritans and nordics, and that both peoples have the same right to, and the same requirement, to develop their culture and language. Samane is an indigenous people who have a rightful claim to a special cultural protection. Right has noticed that the main objective of the Sameting is to create a strong and versatile business that builds on and takes care of Sami culture, nature and the environment, and that the Sameeting wants to create a business that provides the basis for viable communities where people want to live. The Storting Message indicates that primary industries are the most important industries for employment in the Sami regions, and the reindeer is a decisive part of the Sami culture. The right has noticed that predatory game is a major challenge for reindeer, and that the predatory game challenges in the southern parts of the country can threaten the southern culture of these parts of the country if the total pillage pressure becomes too large. The predatory game agreement, adopted in June 2011, states that predatory game should not represent harmful potential in priority grazing areas and domestic calving areas. Right-wing calls for action to be taken in the field of both predatory game management and reindeer management with a view to ensuring the situation of southern Sami domestic sewage operations, and it is important that these points of the predatory game settlement are properly implemented. The main message shows that knowledge and competence are fundamental to the development and strengthening of Sami society, and that the main objective of the Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi is to have knowledge, competence and skills to develop and strengthen its society. The merger is also in dialogue with central authorities, municipalities, county councils and other actors involved in ensuring the provision of health, social and child protection to the Sami people. All of this is important. It is very positive that the government will continue the main lines of Norwegian common policies, and there is a broad consensus that Sami language, culture and tradition are important for Norway. I would like to close the debate and suggest that you do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1057	The document we are now discussing points to the fact that in working democracy the interests of the minority must also be heard and safeguarded in order to build a society based on equality and respect. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the objective of common policies is for those who grow up to have a real opportunity to express their culture and language without fear of discrimination. The development of rights, institution building and the formalisation of dialogue between the authorities and the community have remained central until now. The Communication also points out that the procedures for consultations between State authorities and the Sameting are one of the main frameworks for ensuring the right of collective international law to participate in matters relating to them. As far as I have brought it to light, the consultation system has been a tool both parties have used and have seen useful when matters relating to Samer are on the agenda. A majority of the Committee points out that in May 2013, the Stortinget adopted an amendment to the Law on Repurchase Operations, which resulted in the liquidation of regional governments, and the tasks were added to Fylkeshan. In this case, the consultation procedure was used, but without the parties agreeing, and that is an honest matter. What we are now seeing is that the government of Solberg does not follow up the consultation system, cf. the most recent changes concerning the aggregation of reindeer management with the State agricultural management. A majority of the Committee considers that this is regrettable and that such a lack of follow-up weakens the consultation procedure. Another majority of the Committee emphasises the importance of a good local economy for the provision of equivalent services to the Sami population, in particular in the management area of Sami languages. The notification also presents challenges in terms of costs for bilingual municipalities. The majority of the committee have comments that mention, and states that the state of Norway is originally established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmen, and that both people have the same right and the same requirement to develop their culture and language. Furthermore, the comments say that cohabitants are indigenous peoples who have the right to special cultural protection under international law. I find it a little strange that a government party that the Progress Party cannot support and support such a remark. Rather, the Government Party will be involved in supporting other comments, such as the primary industries being the main industries for employment in the Sami regions. Now it remains to be seen which policy the Progress Party in the government will actually lead in this area. Announcement, as they have done in this message, does not serve the case, either for one or another party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1076	This message is Sametinget's 2012 Annual Report, so it's a little late to treat it when we see 2014 on the calendar, and I hope that we can handle the annual reports faster in the future, so that they have a little greater relevance. Both the debate, the setting and all of these matters often focus on more than just the year of the Annual Report, so it will also be my contribution. Then I can also allow myself to congratulate the new Sameting which was chosen last year, with the election and with new positions. Elections have been carried out and a shift has also been made in political pluralities in the Sametinget. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate those who have been chosen, with the confidence of those who have spoken. The Progress Party is also represented in Sametinget – this time with two representatives. For the first time in history, we have also cooperated with the other party and are now represented in the control selection in Sametinget. So it's nice to register. The party of progress has a principal attitude to the whole thing. We've got program confirmation that we're against a local government agency to represent a group of people. We have suggested that the ordinary bodies such as magnification, county councils and local government should be able to weigh differences of opinion and deliver good policies in those areas. Although we have the primary point of view, we are nevertheless occupied with Sami culture and Sami language. We view it as an important part of Norway's history, our cultural identity and heritage and are busy preserving it. But we think it can be done in ways other than through a private body that only gives some benefits at the expense of others that the ordinary bodies can take. I don't think anyone will be surprised that the Progress Party thinks it's the same thing today that we meant before. Nevertheless, we have concluded a cooperation agreement and a government platform which determines that the Sameting should continue and that there should be consultation between the Sameting, the Storing and the Government. Of course, it's an agreement that we have, even though our primary position is well known in this room. Of course, we believe that we always meant the same thing, while at the same time being able to have a constructive and good dialogue with our cooperation party on common policies. We read the 2012 Annual Report. It is right, as the Labour Party representative says, that we have gone out of comment. We have chosen to have the approach that we take this for information. But that doesn't mean we're opposed to everything that's in the notes. The representative should have. Not that the non-participating notes are automatic. But we think it's good to be able to take this for information – and nothing more than that. One thing that I have registered with interest in the Annual Report is this with land policy. I note that the Sameting has an extended authority from the time the planning and building laws were amended in 2009, that they now have the possibility to make protests in relation to eight county municipalities and over a hundred primary municipalities. We are registered as a germ for a little conflict and a little irritation among the primary municipalities that receive reprisals. Fortunately, the Council of State was in and contributed to a positive decision for Nussir, so that the municipality of Kvalsund can see new jobs and new value creation, which we are very pleased with. But we think it's a little sad that when the rest of Norway has experienced that the Council of State has sent a letter that the county council should focus on local self-government more strongly, put it over a hundred primary municipalities that ask: Don't blame us – we still have many contradictions and do not have the same freedom in land policy. These are things that we have noticed when we read the annual report.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1095	The merger is and shall be the government's leading premiscuous supplier on Sami issues. For more than 20 years, the Sametinge has played a central role both in the Sami environment and in the general population. It is essential that the forms of cooperation and dialogue between the Federation and the Government function well. We – politicians, journalists, other pedophiles and society – have a responsibility to preserve and further develop Sami culture. The Christian People's Party will have a great diversity in Norwegian society and will participate and secure the right of all together to their own language, culture and society. The specific nature of the joint must be ensured by passing on their way of life, business structure, culture and values to new generations. In order to develop a good policy in this area, there is a need for an understanding of the challenges that exist. At the same time, it is important to point to positive features, such as Sami cultural life, Sami food and Sami travel life. All of this helps to strengthen identity and self-esteem. Common policies require follow-up at all levels of government. State policy premises the development of Sami communities and Sami languages in the big society. State and municipal policies determine a great deal of how the concrete measures reach most people. In Sámi core areas, full bilingualism is assumed in public institutions. However, school life has a challenge in teaching children in and in Sami, and the number of Sami speakers has dropped a lot in recent years. Sami language and cultural centres are also struggling with financial support. The Sami language is a foundation for Sami culture. It is therefore important that the Sami language be preserved and continued. One of the main challenges facing Sami children today is in school. The training situation is worrying, with both the lack of teaching materials in their own language and the lack of teachers to learn away. We see that Sami children do not get what they have the right to, that is, a good Sami language training. There needs to be a conscious effort to train more Sami teachers and pre-school teachers. The process of developing and updating learning materials in Sami needs to be speeded up. The school must contribute more to raising Norwegian children’s awareness of Sami culture and language. Finally, I would like to address the perhaps most serious challenge to the Sami population – the discrimination and harassment that many common people face, in many cases daily. Previous studies have shown discouraging figures. 3.5 pst. of the Norwegian majority population have felt discriminated against, research shows that a total of 35 pst. by the Sami speakers, discrimination is experienced, i.e. ten times more. Worst is beyond the defined Sami language areas. Here, half of the group experience discrimination and state that they have been bullied twice as often as the majority of Norwegians. This testifies to ignorance, disrespect and bad attitudes. We have a responsibility not only to continue the traditions, the Sami language, the nutrient base and the culture, but also to create greater understanding and respect for it. We're not just going to be a conservator, we're going to be an ambassador. We need to ensure that the way of life, culture and values of each other are passed on and respected by new generations, because Norway is best served by a diverse and rich society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1118	In order to have a functioning democracy, it is essential that the interests of the minority also be heard and safeguarded in order to build a society based on equivalency and respect. I refer to the majority comment: our country is established in the territory of two peoples, Northmen and Sami, and both groups should be guaranteed equal opportunities to develop their culture and language. Fortunately, the whole committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, agrees on this. The Centre Party will strengthen the languages, culture, business and social life of other national minorities. Much has been done, but more needs to be done to meet the ambitions. In its language notification, the synthesis has proposed a number of changes in today’s model for the work in Sami language and proposes that the Sameting should be given overall responsibility for the development of Sami language. The Ministry says they will consider the proposal of the Sameting in the context of the planned consultations on the possible revision of the language rules of the Sameting Act. In a comment in the setting, the Center Party, together with other parties, asks that Size be kept informed of the progress of this work. Another issue addressed in the Central Party is the need to strengthen the interpretation of the healthcare services of the Sami population. Should health care have the desired effect, we need more than good doctors. It is equally important that doctors and patients can communicate with each other during the consultations. Fortunately, a majority agree on the importance of ensuring access to Sami interpreters at health institutions. Health Nord is assigned to carry out a better interpretation service. This work must be followed up by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in dialogue with the Sameting. Sami culture and Sami languages are diverse. In the past, I have expressed extra concern about whether we are showing enough attention to the challenges by preserving southern Sami and lulesamic as living languages. As minorities among the Sami minority, language and culture conservation for these groups is particularly demanding. New construction for the Sámi Museum, Saemien Sijte, at Snåsa is finished, but unfortunately not realized. The center party believes it is now time to put the shovel in the ground, and together with the Workers' Party and SV we proposed a start-up grant of 5 million. kr in the budget for 2014. Unfortunately, the majority on Stortinget would not be with us on that. The realisation of this project would provide an important lighthouse for the Southern Sami culture Primary industries are the main industries of employment in the Sami regions. Purity is in a special position both as a source of income and as an important part of the Sami culture. Robbery challenges are great and difficult to overcome even in the reindeer industry. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports a comment that states that the 2011 rapprochement has been confirmed. It is established that predatory game represents a potential for harm in grazing areas and calving areas for tamrein. So they have to be taken out. The agreement also provides for the necessary measures to be put in place to ensure the situation of the South Saami tamrein operation. I am surprised that the Progress Party also does not believe that this is worth noting, and that they are not involved in this comment. The Committee stresses the importance of the effective implementation of these points in the predatory game agreement. The emphasis is necessary, because it is not yet such that the predatory game deal is followed up. We don't control the predatory game challenges in the reindeer areas. This has been underlined time and time again, and last we saw this underlined by the Queen, who expressed great concern during her visit to Finnmark. We expect the government to follow up on Stortingen's predatory game settlement, so that we can soon experience reduced conflict and opportunities to exploit grazing in the outfield. This is important for reindeer management, and also for other livestock farming, and for maintaining a living cultural landscape. For this reason, the Centre Party has also submitted proposals for treatment in Stortinget – to ensure that the rapprochement agreement is followed up and that the level of conflict can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1144	It is a unanimous opinion of the Committee that highlights the importance of culture and language and the importance it has for the individual's experience of his or her own Sami identity. It is also important to point out that indigenous peoples have a requirement of international law in relation to cultural protection. Norwegian and Sami are, as is also stated in the setting, equivalent languages. But it is also important to dwell on the role of the whole thing, which in my view is important, especially in terms of contributing to the development of nutrition, and not least in terms of Sami culture, nature and the environment. What we are also discussing in the vote is that reindeer management is facing a significant challenge in Finnmark – especially with regard to the objectives of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability – through the ongoing reindeer adaptation. Previous talks were in the Saemien Sijte in the Nord-Trøndelag. I have to stay a little bit by it. I agree that the Southern Sami minority is a minority in the minority. But for me it's a little special, after sitting for eight years in government, to take up a start-up grant of five million. kr – when you have actually been sitting at the rudder for so long. I don't know what expression I'm going to use, but I think it's a little strange that you actually promote it in the budget after leaving the government offices. All of this must be due to the need to have respect for the Southern Sami minority in the case of Saemien Sijte, which is planned in Snåsa. I think it's getting a little weird and a little bit hollow – what the previous representative said. After all, you sat here for eight years without doing anything about it. The sum total, I think, is the most important thing in this, is respect for the indigenous population and together. That's something I feel the committee is in favour of. I also think it is good that the Progress Party is moving – it is joyous.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1157	I think I'll first establish that the Sameting is important. The establishment of it has been important for indigenous people far beyond the borders of Norway, because it has shown how to raise and increase participation for indigenous peoples. What is perhaps most eye-catching about this setting is not that it is unanimous – as the representative from the Left said – but how much it cracks in content, and that we now have a government party that is totally disagreeable with the main action we are talking about, namely that we have a merger, and that communities like indigenous peoples are entitled to both legal protection and the need for their own instruments. It is also about what the representative of the Christian People's Party – I think it was – was up and saying that it is an underlying discrimination and a lack of understanding of indigenous peoples behind it. That's what you have to deal with. Then it's quite remarkable that the Progress Party can't even be involved in the comments that tell you how important this actually is. There is a risk of weakening the consultation system, which is an established and very good system that should be developed. Language is important. There's been a lot of people around here. It has to be strengthened, because what we know is that if you learn your mother tongue well, you also get better in other languages. That's how we act as human beings. This does not weaken the ability to communicate in the big community as well. The representative from the Left was in at Saemien Sijte, and he complained that now the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party thought that this had to be started, because it has taken too long. It has taken too much time, but it must be more strange and more problematic for the Left to have joined forces with someone who does not even want the Sameeting and who wants to attack the natural basis of which parts of the Sami population live, for example. fisheries. The government gave a clear signal last week to dump 30 tons of mining sludge in Repparfjord, despite objections from the Sameting, from the district management of the reindeer farm in West Finland and from the Seasamian fishing and fishing association Bivdi. It tells me that there are many things that are important to the Sami population, that should worry the representative from the left more than someone wants to start Saemien Sijte, which I entirely agree that should have been going on a long time ago. What is also important to remember when discussing common policies is that it applies to large parts of the country. I come from Hedmark, and there is also a southern Sami population who have a common area with the South Trondelag, and in those areas too, there are problems associated with predatory game management. I would like to stress that SV is on the predatory game deal, and that we want it to be implemented as it has been agreed. It is absolutely necessary for the southern Sami reindeer to be able to live as well. We have a duty to care for it. That is why we have been opposed when we wanted to expand, for example. The wolf zone northwards, because then you get too close to the border of the southern Sami reindeer. I come right now from a lunch with the control committee in the Sametinget. It's a very important body that I think it was very useful to talk to, and it's important that the Sameting now also takes a sea view of how they want to develop their control committee – the reason I was there, is that I also sit on the Control and Constitutional Committee here in Stortingen – so that they can also develop their own parliamentary control mechanisms in a reassuring way, and that they can provide input from the people who want to go into individual matters that may be uncertain around. This challenge goes, of course, to the Sameting, as the sea must outline how this is to be done, but I am not in doubt that there is a need for the Sameting to develop a control committee that has the resources to carry out good control activities in its area of competence. I am pleased that we are going to come back to the current issues in the future, because it is very important that we now strengthen the Sameting and the democratic bodies that they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1174	The attitude of the Municipal and Administrative Committee shows that there is a broad political consensus that Sami languages, culture and traditions are important and enriching to Norway. The State has overall responsibility for contributing to the preservation and further development of Sami language and culture. The merger is established by the law of union and contributes to compliance with the Constitution § 110a. In this way, the Norwegian authorities have arranged for themselves, through their elected bodies, to be able to secure and develop their language, culture and social life. The Government will continue the main lines of Norwegian co-policy. In the Sundvolden Declaration, we have stated that indigenous peoples and minorities will develop their language, culture and social life. We have also said that we will preserve the Sameting and the consultation system between the Sameting, Stortinget and the government. The experience of the consultation mechanism — established by the previous civil government, when the current Prime Minister was responsible for the common policy — has strengthened the interaction and cooperation between the government and the Sameting. However, the fact that a system works well is not an argument for not making it even better. It is important that we facilitate constructive and effective consultation with the Sameting and, as far as the consultation system is concerned, the possibilities for improvement and simplification should be considered. I have to say that I react to the representative Lauvås questioning whether the government will follow up the consultation system. The Sundvolden Declaration clearly states that the government will follow up the consultation system, and I do not agree that the matter he raised, namely the organisation of the central reindeer management, is an example of a weakening of the consultation system. It was assessed in this context whether there was a basis for consultation. We came to the conclusion that it was not, because this is about two of the central government agencies of the state, and that does not mean that the service provision for the Sami reindeer operation is changing. Norwegian and Sami are equivalent languages in Norway. This means that the Sami population should have the same opportunity as the majority population to use their language in their everyday lives. Viable Sami languages require good structures for the standardisation and development of the Sami languages across borders. It is therefore positive that the compounds in Norway, Sweden and Finland have merged to establish a common Nordic language centre. Such a language centre will provide positive synergies for Sami language work in all three countries. I had the pleasure of spending half a day in Kautokeino at the beginning of this week, and I was impressed by the competence environment in Kautokeino, both linked to the ICR – The International Centre for Reindeer Husbandry – Sami University, Gáldu and several institutions that are good institutions for Norway and for communities. What's interesting is that we have institutions that don't exist on the other sides of the borders in the Nordic countries. I think that is a strength for Norway and for the Sami culture, and we must build on that. Through its instruments of action in the field of economic activity, the Sameting contributes to the growth and development of North Norway. The government is busy developing Sami business. It is therefore positive that the pooling priority should be given to improving the framework conditions for primary industries. The fact that the Sameting with its instruments helps to facilitate a varied business and increased employment in the Sami cultural industries also, in my opinion, harmonizes well with government policy. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government has established that reindeer management is an important industry in parts of the country. The government's aim of the reindeer management policy is to ensure ecologically sustainable reindeer management and to facilitate the long-term reduction of industry's dependence on transfers. It is said that the quality of a society can be measured by looking at how it treats its minorities. A broad political consensus on continuing the protection of indigenous peoples and minorities testifies to the strong desire to take care of and respect the diversity of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1210	It is right that the Council of State concluded its speech by saying that there has been a broad consensus on Norwegian common policies. It is only the Progress Party – one of the government parties – that has been on the outside with a completely different approach. I also noted that the Council of State and the representative of Lødemel were concerned with stressing that they wanted to continue the broad lines of the common policy and of the policies pursued, and that the Council of State was also concerned with the responsibility of the Sametinge to take care of the Sami population. That the Council of State said nothing about was the responsibility of the majority population to maintain and facilitate the development and preservation of their language, society and culture. So when it comes to continuing the broad lines of policy, there is one more question I have to ask the Council of State: which parts of the common policy is what you do not want to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1217	There has been a broad political consensus on common policies, and today there is a broader consensus than has ever been on the main lines of Norwegian co-policy. That should delight the parties that were in government but are now in opposition. Even when the red-green parties were in government, there were representatives from some of the government parties who expressed their primary positions. I believe that in Norwegian democracy we live well with the fact that parties and individuals who have meant something still believe it after coming into government. But the government platform and the government's policy are very clear, and it was also stated by the representative Helge André Njåstad, that the Progress Party in the government has committed itself to standing behind both the Sameting and the consultation system. I believe that all parties should underline the importance of the broad political consensus it is now about Norwegian common policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1222	I record that the Council of State does not respond to the question of which part of the common policy should not be pursued, when it is said to continue the main lines. But to follow up: the Council of State spoke of a broader policy and consensus, but to me it seems very unclear. When State Secretary Amundsen had expressed his personal opinions in an interview, we addressed this with the Council of State in the February Questionnaire. Those opinions have been confirmed by the pulpit of the representative of Njåstad. That is not a personal opinion; it is the opinion of the Government Party, which is contrary to the policy which the Council of State wants to pursue. So if this has become a broader consensus – there is no clear answer to it – and it might be tempting to ask, is it possible that people who are representatives of the government are jumping around and expressing a kind of point of view that is not in line with the policy that the Council of State wants to pursue?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1232	I think it is obvious that the Workers' Party is more concerned with creating conflict than with stressing the broad consensus on Norwegian common policies. Let me remind you that representatives from SV in the previous period expressed different views than the Red-Green government had, without me noticing the same commitment from the Labour Party at the time. When I say we're going to continue the main lines, it's because I also see the need for the development of common policies. It is not that everything should be the way it has once been. There is a need to develop further. In particular, the government has highlighted the need to further develop languages, culture and nutrition. We're going to move on, we're going to develop, we're going to give together greater and better opportunities, not least in terms of the important cooperation between the Nordic countries and between cohabitants across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1241	As I stated in my post, I am particularly concerned about language and culture conservation in the Southern Sami language and culture, because they are a small minority in the Sami minority. The museum building Saemien Sijte, planned in Snåsa, is not only a museum building, but also a cultural institution, a dissemination arena and a travel destination. The Saemi Sijte was planned last year, and during the last year the last lease agreement was in place. It was therefore a natural time to propose a start-up grant. The central party, the Workers' Party and SV therefore proposed a start-up grant in this year's budget, and it also seems that the Left here in the Chamber supports us that the time is now ripe to start. Does the Council share the view that the time is now overdue for building start-ups, and what will the Council of State do to help support rapid follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1253	I must say that I am probably not as concerned as the representative of Mr Greni. Rather, on the contrary: I feel that in the Sami environment there is a strong desire to preserve and further develop the Sami language, and this government has clearly stated that we want to build up during that work. Then I register that the centre party – and then SV – is more impatient in opposition than they were in position. This is the case when Saemien Sijte, where the red-green government did not think it was right to set aside money, but when the centre party put aside funds as soon as they came into opposition. You could say a little bit different about that. It's good to be impatient – after a lot of silence in the last eight years. We'll evaluate that question when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1260	I register that you believe that in this case we should have started a start-up grant before it was planned and before the rental contracts were in place. As for the archive on Tynset, we were criticized on the contrary because we had put in a start-up grant, despite the fact that there were only details left. So my question is still: will the Council of State ensure that there will be a start-up budget in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1265	With the government experience of the Central Party, one would also know that a Council of State cannot answer the kind of questions before the budget has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1270	To the end it is well to say that when Saemien Sijte was finished planning, and there were more money available in the budget, we chose to use them a little different from what the government parties did. I guess it's not harder than that. We prioritised Saemien Sijte over some of the things that the Right and Advance Party prioritized. But when it comes to different opinions, it is quite right that there was an SV representative who had different opinions about this policy in the previous period, or in the earlier periods, but that was not what we wrote in the settings. To put it this way: We heard that – from current government parties – quite loudly and clearly that was not acceptable, and I can also assure you that it was said internally. What's the difference now is that there's a government party that doesn't have the government notes. Will the Council of State accept that it will also be so in future, in future issues to be addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1277	This obviously concerns the representative, Andersen, but I have to admit that I am not being equally stressed about this. I believe that we live well with disagreement, and I believe that the representative Helge André Njåstad explained this very well in his statement, namely that in this case the Progress Party has over time had a different position. But the representative, Mr Njåstad, underlined that the Progress Party of course supports the Government Declaration that the Progress Party has concluded. And the government's policy is very clear in this area: we're going to preserve the Sameting, we're going to maintain the consultation system and we're going to build up under Sami language, culture and nutrition. And then I might rather be glad that there is now broader political consensus behind the common policy than it has ever been, rather than continuing the hack-hack policy that SV is pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1283	I note that there are clearly different rules, even for the Right, when they are in opposition and when they are in position, for the criticism that representatives from SV had slightly different opinions than the government had in the previous period was very harsh and judgmental. So while it is now permissible for a government party to deal with a case in Stortinget, that you have completely different opinions. Therefore, it is completely impossible to understand that there is a “broader” consensus about this now than it was before! No, that consensus isn't there, but someone has bowed down. But what we know is that those who oppose us are going to have a combination, those who are opposed to having a good common policy, are now in government, and that is why I ask the Council of State: Will you still accept that the Progress Party in the Stortinget can have a different opinion than the Advance Party has in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1290	I'm sure that's what the Right Party and the Advance Party will find out. But I listened to what the representative Njåstad said, and what he said was that of course the Progress Party is behind the government statement, and there we have stated that we are going to preserve the Sameting, further develop the consultation system and strengthen the Sami language, culture and business. Then we build on it, and then we live well with a little diversity of opinion in democracy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1295	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1300	This is the first time that this magnification is given the opportunity to discuss common policies in a bit of breadth. It tends to disappear, for example. The budget debate. That's a little bit of a strange show we're witnessing. I understand that the representative Njåstad has a very demanding task: one has gone from a Progress Party which has had extensive comments on how wrong the same policy we are pursuing is now to be concerned about telling you that you are behind the government, which is going to continue the main lines of this policy. State Council Sanner is committed to describing this as a diversity of opinion that we can live with in democracy Norway. Yes, I am a very strong supporter of freedom of expression and a diversity of opinion, but what the representative Njåstad and the Council of State Sanner are trying to do is conceal that there is a fundamental disagreement about and a fundamentally different approach and perspective of common policy. It's trying to describe it as a sense of inadequacy. The representative of Njåstad repeated from this pulpit today that they are against the Sameting. But I'm going to give the representative Njåstad the chance to elaborate on this, since he says they're concerned with Sami culture and language and their ability to further develop. This is the question we have asked to the Progress Party for many years, and to which we have not yet received an answer. If there is now a broader consensus, the question goes to the representative Njåstad: if you are going to do so in another way, in what way has the Progress Party intended to facilitate further development of the Sami language, society and the Sami culture? We never got an answer to that. The right of objection to the reindeer was raised in the debate today. Are we now to expect that the right of objection to the reindeer operation is one of the rights of objection to be removed in the debate on the institution of objection? It would have been okay to get a clarification about that. Or can you expect the government to ignore objections that come from the reindeer, because you think it's in the way of value creation? For me, there's a fundamental contrast between the entries here. All parties other than the Progress Party say and acknowledge that the nation of Norway was established in the territory of two people. This is the basis for our understanding of the common policies, and the Progress Party is in a government that pursues a policy on that basis, but they do not recognise that perspective. It's not contradictions for me. For me, it's a fundamental contradiction. It is difficult for me to understand how the Progress Party can actually live up to the policy they are pursuing in government, when they are so fundamental to the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1319	It is partly a strange debate to witness. Providing Sami culture, language and identity is something that we all agree on. The Progress Party has never said that we are opposed to Sami culture, identity or language – rather the opposite. We want to strengthen this. We want to make it easier for partners to have their legitimate culture and a development of language and identity. There has never been any doubt about that. We've had a principle approach to this with the whole thing. We have meant and believe that in one nation there can only be one national parliament. You can't have two national parliaments in one nation. But also this clear committee leader, Helge André Njåstad of the Progress Party, is very clear and clear, but I would like to do it again: the Progress Party is ruling on a government platform that determines that the Sametinge will continue to exist. We're going to have the consultation system, and we're going to be completely behind it. There's no crack at that point. It is not the case that the Progress Party does not acknowledge the government platform and government policy – rather the opposite. We have said it over and over again, and I say it again: we acknowledge the Sameting, and we also want the consultation arrangements that exist, because it's in the government platform we govern, but we have a different view on this. We mean the same thing now after the election that we meant before the election, but what we rule on, there is no doubt about it. I think that the one that went the longest in this debate was the representative Karin Andersen, who joined the opposition to the Sameting – that is, the principle approach to not having two national assemblies in one nation – against not having respect for the culture of our fellows. I think the representative of the Christian People's Party made a very good contribution, and I share those views. We must combat all forms of discrimination against people in Norway – especially when it comes to minority rights in our society. But to connect it to having a different attitude to this with the Sameting, I find tasteless and unworthy in a debate in the national parliament of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1334	Instead of doing like some others, who use this speaker to problematize that there is broad consensus, I think it is quite gratifying, on the other hand, that there is a broad consensus on common policies, because that is the case. I also think it's a little significant when you take so much time from the pulpit to reconstruct something that's not a disagreement. It's a unanimous attitude, and it's also happy what's coming. At the beginning of the debate, there were many points in the big news, among others. tolerance. You can ask yourself questions about that. It is also interesting to hear about the internal life of SV, but I do not necessarily think it is very exciting. But I think there is almost a limit to having – and I do not know whether it is a parliamentary expression – the gift of fear when representatives Greni and Andersen give such a history description of Saemien Sijte. They actually sat for eight years without doing anything with this museum, and when they're out of government, there's a start-up grant of five million. kr. This is more than alarming. This is to throw blues in the eyes of someone who really doesn't deserve it; a minority. That's what I think is alarming, and it's pointed out by several people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1345	The fact in this case is that we are discussing comments that the Progress Party is not included in the vote. I hear they say that they have now bowed down, but they also say that they have not changed their mind at all. This is the opinion of the Progress Party, and I expect them to work because that vision is going to color the job they do internally in the government. Swallow if they've agreed on some points, they'll sail at all intersections going in the direction they want. That's a fact, and that's what we're pointing out. When individual representatives have been brought forward here, it is not SV who has done so. There were others who chose to mention them, and that's why I needed to answer it, because I realized it was SV. That was also said, and then it must be allowed to answer. As regards Saemien Sijte, the budget adopted after the government change had a larger financial framework than the budget presented in October. Then the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre chose to use that frame differently from the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Within our framework, we were given room for this allocation, and I am pleased about that. I do not think there is any reason for anyone to suspect it or to say that it is something particularly striking – especially since the matter was then resolved. All I want is for the sitting government to find room for this in the future, because it is a very good and important measure, and it should come into place. And when you had a little more money to go with, we got it. I was pleased, and there is no reason for the representative from the Left to mention it in a different way than what is actually the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1356	I must say that I am a little surprised that the debate on the Annual Report for 2012 was largely about the Progress Party. I believe that this debate may have a certain interest in the Sameting and the Sami population, and I do not think they will be particularly satisfied that the internal life of the Progress Party and the SV's internal life in the previous period will be the main theme – not the Sami challenges pointed out by the Annual Report. But when we get direct challenges, of course we have to answer them. There can be no surprise that the Action Programme of the Progress Party tells us what our primary position is, and that the government platform tells us what we, as a compromise, have been some of right-wing control. That we mean what we've always meant, and that we stick to what we've been about, I didn't think I should be surprising to anyone in this room, because that's how democracy works. There was nothing of what neither I nor Keshvari said that indicates that the Progress Party in government will not follow up the government platform and lead a good policy as a compromise with other parties. That's how democracy works. What was the question from the representative Sivertsen was what we will do specifically when it comes to culture and language, which we are busy with. It goes without saying that during this period we will, through the Sameting and in dialogue with the Right, develop a good policy. In the 2013 Annual Report for the Sametinget, which they have already discussed, we note that the Group of the Progress Party in the Sametinget has pointed out that they are not satisfied with the impact they get on language and culture. We would like to have a dialogue with them on what we should do to make things easier to achieve with Sami language and culture, and to be more happy in that area. We have no problem having a good dialogue with our people in the Sameting to try to do so that they are more satisfied with the situation than they have been in 2013. We've already begun to notice the Sametinge's comments on the 2013 Annual Report, which we're going to discuss again in a year's time. I also react to the representative Andersen saying that we do not want to lead a good common policy. We've never said that. We've just said that we have another principle approach. During this period of government it is decided that we should cooperate through consultation, cooperation through the use of the Sameting, but we have never opposed a good common policy. We've always been busy caring for Sami cultural heritage and Sami language, which is an important part of Norway's history. That's what we want to do, regardless of which platform we have to control. Now we're on the government platform and we're 100 percent behind what's in the formulations there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1367	A little summary of the debate: I think it has become very clear that the main lines of Norwegian co-policy are fixed, and that there is a broad consensus that Sami language, culture and tradition are important to Norway. It has also been established that the merger’s role exists, even in the case of the consultation mechanism. Then it's a little strange to right the Labour Party and SV's negative comments to it. But anyway, it's joyous. I share Skelstad's thoughts towards the end of the debate and also what Njåstad said about the firmness of the common policy. There are good answers from the Council of State, which also indicate that. Otherwise it's worth noting what the representative Foss said, that 35 pst. by Sami-speaking people, they feel discriminated against. There's something we can follow up. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that the committee is going to the Nord-Trøndelag this month, and I'm also going to be on the Sametinge seat in June. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1376	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1390	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1406	On 1 January 2007 a regulation on the water management framework became part of the Norwegian law, the so-called water regulation. It took the view that work, prevention or improvement measures should be taken to improve the state of fresh water, groundwater and coastal waters. The purpose of the work is to develop water management plans and to improve the state of the environment. All bodies of water shall achieve or maintain at least what is to be described as good status. In the spring of 2007, the Stortinget adopted the introduction of national salmon fjords and salmon rivers. Today we have 29 national salmon fjords and 52 salmon streams. The environmental status of the Environment Directorate states: ‘The salmon in these rivers and fjords shall be managed in such a way as to preserve the diversity and productivity of nature and to identify and eliminate factors threatening salmon.’ A pre-war approach is being taken into account in the further work. Now we have several major issues with proposals on the landfill of mining waste in or near our designated salmon fjords. It's about mining in Engebøjellet in Fördefjorden, and it's not small landfills we're talking about. In the Fördefjord, there is talk of 6 million tonnes of chemical mixed mining sludge per year for 50 years, which could raise the fjord from 300 metres, as it is today, 100 to 150 metres upwards, and with all the uncertainty that lies in the current and dispersal of the mining sludge. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has just accepted a local regulation plan for landfill in Repparfjorden, Finland. The Repparfjord is from 60 to 90 meters deep. Here the sludge deposit is proposed in the middle of the salmon fjord, and there too is the large number it is about. The fjord is 13 km long. This is about dumping between 1 and 2 million tonnes each year. It equals 240 tonnes of nickel, 588 tonnes of chromium, 1400 tonnes of copper — every year. If we look at the Environmental Directorate's grading of sediments, sediments with copper equals three times what is to be described as very bad. Mining is both land-intensive, requires large quantities of fresh water and produces huge amounts of waste. The left believes that we can manage to find new ways to extract in the future that make us do it better, but with today's technology, very few percent of the mass is actually used. So, as I've already mentioned, we have more projects like this. The prerequisite for the application for new mining operations in Repparfjorden in Finnmark and Engebøfjellet in Fördefjorden is to allow sea dumping of both mass and chemicals, which in its time was also a prerequisite for the iron mine in Kirkenes, with emissions in Bøkfjorden. In most countries in the world today, there is a ban on dumping of mining waste in seas and fjords, in line with, among others. The main international ban on the dumping of industrial waste from countries at sea in the London Convention. Norway is facing a rather dubious number of countries that permit this type of landfill. As I know, today Norway, Turkey, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea are allowing mining landfills in the sea. Unlike Norway, other countries have large landfills, generally down to several thousand metres in depth. So in Norway, in Repparfjord, you will allow a mining landfill of 60 to 90 meters deep. The government rates mining as a new industry for the future in Norway. It could give you a lot of possibilities. That's good, and we're not critical of it, but an uncritical yes to Norwegian mining is also meant to have massive dumping of mining waste and associated toxic chemicals in Norwegian fjords. Both the Marine Research Institute and the Norwegian Fisheries Team have been strongly critical of this dumping. Although the Minister of Industry has said that Norwegian fjords and seas are very deep, so that's a good place, it's an approach I hope the Minister of the Environment does not have. The effects of mining waste in fjord ecosystems can be numerous. It lays down on the seabed, the bottom animals are strangled, and you get an unproductive seabed for many years. For example, in Bøkfjord, the waste is discharged to very shallow water under a strong tidal current, which causes the fine particles to spread over the whole fjord system. In order to achieve a good economy in the projects, mining requires the use of chemicals to achieve the best quality of products – such as Magnafloc of different types and Lilaflot. Researchers do not know what consequences this can have, but there are many concerns about the use of these groups of substances. One is concerned that they will not be broken down, and that they will be found in nature in abundant quantities in the future. Initially, Norwegian fjords have a national and international protection against pollution in addition to the water regulation. Under national laws, the Constitution § 110b, the Law on marine resources, the Law on Natural Diversity and the Law on Pollution shall protect the external environment from pollution, limit pollution and ensure the quality of the environment for all, including those who come after us. The national salmon fjords have a special protection — to take national responsibility and because it is an international responsibility to take care of the transatlantic salmon strain. In a 2010 study by the Ministry of the Environment, entitled ‘Norway without Environmental Pollutants’, criteria are notified and how ‘a more powerful chemical management’, as it is called, must meet the government’s wish to stop emissions of environmental pollutants by 2020. I have mentioned the water regulation, which is the implementation of the EU Water Directive. Action plans are drawn up that are important and I hope they will be followed up. But I believe that there must also be contact between life and learning in relation to these major projects. We believe that our fjords should not be a waste site for the mining industry. The fjords shall be sustainable and used by the community, following good marine ecosystems. Today, fjord landfill is incompatible with environmentally friendly mining. A lot of people point this out. The marine research institute is very clear in its opinions, both on how it can affect salmon in this, which is salmon fjords, and on how it will affect the threatened fjord cod. There is also considerable uncertainty about different nanoparticles — the negative effects they can have on fish and life in the sea. And then there's a lot of uncertainty about how wide it is on the sediments. In Bøkfjorden it has been shown that there is a greater spread than previously foreseen. In Repparfjord – which is a shallow fjord and 13 km long – one of the country’s strongest flows in the Kvalsundet just outside. How this will affect the sludge, and how it spreads, is very uncertain about. It is also true that after the Marine Research Institute gave its negative opinion, much greater quantities of copper have been found, which will lead to even greater emissions in Repparfjord. In Fördefjorden, new studies are being carried out to get a more thorough check around the current conditions there. In its opinion to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the Ministry of Climate and Environment writes that Repparfjorden is a national salmon fjord. The Ministry considers that the protection regime for national salmon fjords and salmon watercourses is not a barrier to the regulatory plan. Consequently, the nature of the wild game must be taken into account in a proper manner. Then I would like to stress that the area that is now regulated as a landfill is 5 km2. It corresponds to emissions from approx. 80 farms — farming facilities strictly prohibited in any salmon fjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1448	Norway has a coastal nature that puts us in a special position in the world. We have some of the world's most beautiful fjords and a long-range coast with a rich and varied diversity of plants and animals. Throughout history, the coast has been an important part of our life base, including: fisheries, timber exports and agriculture. In addition, the coast is important for outdoor life and recreation, and it is not least a good travel product. Most tourists come to Norway to experience fjords and mountains, waterfalls and mighty landscapes. This ‘blue nature’ I am concerned about taking care of, so that in the future it can also provide a basis for value creation. We use several tools to secure our fjords: It is a national objective that all coastal waters should have good ecological and chemical status during 2021. The EU Water Directive has been implemented in Norwegian law in the water legislation and covers the fjords and other coastal waters of Norway. The regulation requires the development of regional water management plans and associated action programmes to meet environmental objectives. The water management plans are under preparation and are to be sent at public consultation by 1 July of this year. Plans covering all water regions in Norway shall be in place by the end of 2015. I would also like to highlight the nature diversity law and, in particular, the provisions on sustainable use. These provisions are important for the management of all nature in Norway, including the fjord tour. Another means of protecting our fjords is marine protection, which is to ensure that a representative sample of marine habitat types and natural resources is preserved for the future. This includes, inter alia: important for reference areas for research and monitoring. Three marine protected areas of the coastal zone have been established so far to ensure unique natural values. I would also like to bring forward the Norwegian wild axis, which is an important part of many Norwegian fjords. In order to preserve wild salmon populations, the Stortinget has adopted a system of national salmon fjords and national salmon streams. As the representative Elvesuen said, 29 national salmon fjords have been established and a separate protection regime has been adopted for these fjords. I am also committed to improving the knowledge base in coastal areas. We are therefore participating in the funding of the research programme The Sea and the coast under the Norwegian Research Council. This research will be useful for policy-making in the future. Interpellant mentions some examples of conditions that threaten the state of the environment in Norwegian fjords. I'd like to mention agriculture first. In agricultural-intensive areas in particular, run-off of nitrogen and phosphorus can lead to problems of over-fertilisation and thus reduced water quality. In order to reduce the risk of erosion and run-off, extensive efforts have been made in recent years to change the timing of tillage from harvest to spring. Work is also underway to revise the regulation governing the storage and spreading of manure. In the case of escaped farmed fish and salmonids, there is a broad consensus that these are the main environmental challenges facing the aquaculture industry. It has been established in the government's political platform that we want to facilitate growth in aquaculture. But this must be done in an environmentally sound manner. The government will therefore strengthen its efforts to combat salmon fever, other disease challenges and escape through binding agreements with the industry. Among other things, this government has increased the appropriations for monitoring escaped farmed fish in rivers with a view to monitoring twice as many rivers as in the past. The government wants to practise the polluter pays principle also in the aquaculture industry. This work is under the direction of the Minister for Fisheries, who is responsible for these areas. Improvements in the knowledge base are also being undertaken, with sustainability indicators for escaped farmed fish and salmonids and with testing of sterile fish. In addition, we see that the aquaculture industry, through its environmental fund, is funding fishing activities in several rivers, which is something both the Minister for Fisheries and I welcome. The interpellant also mentions the risk of oil spills from ships as a threat. The government wants to transfer more freight transport from road to sea. This will bring benefits for both safety and the environment, by reducing the number of heavy vehicles operating on Norwegian roads, while at the same time increasing maritime traffic in coastal areas. In the past, we have had shells with oil spills along the coast, and after these, the clearing operations have required considerable resources. The Government will strengthen oil protection preparedness and provide an update of the Water Safety and Oil Protection Landfill Communication. A sample will also be set up to assess how to strengthen oil protection technologies, product development, industrial construction and competences. Important measures to reduce the risk of accidents are recommended shipping routes leading the large vessels further away from the coast and monitoring of coastal shipping. The government will facilitate mineral nutrition in Norway. The Health Platform says that the mineral industry can use marine landfills, but that we will impose strict requirements and ensure environmental monitoring. This assumes that other developed land for landfill is not a better solution. Yes, it is true that mineral activities can generate large amounts of residues, for which we need to find good disposal solutions. As Minister for Climate and Environment, I am responsible for assessments of emission permits under the pollution law. Both marine and terrestrial landfills have an environmental impact. It's not possible to say in general that one is better than the other. This has to be assessed in detail in each case. I am concerned that the environmental impact should be minimised, and that matters will be thoroughly investigated before decisions are taken. Sea pollution of residues from mining has been practised in Norway and internationally for more than 30 years, and the environmental requirements we set today are strict. It is important that matters are well resolved. Adequate monitoring shall be ensured during the operation of the landfill. We also have a good system of supervision and control of emissions permit activities. In examining an application for an emission permit, attention shall be paid to pollutional disadvantages in conjunction with other benefits and disadvantages. There is a broad composite assessment to be made. One of the environmental challenges of landfilling is the use of chemicals in production. Companies are obliged to replace health and environmental hazardous chemicals unless hazardous alternatives can be provided without undue cost or disadvantage. We have a national target to avoid the release and use of the most dangerous substances — the priority pollutants — while minimising the risk of release and use of other health and environmental harmful chemicals. These targets are followed up in both emission permit requirements and verification and monitoring. Finally, I would like to mention that it is important that we also continue to clean up the old pollution on land and on the seabed. This is mainly emissions from industry and other activities from past times that can cause the spread of health and environmental harmful chemicals in Norwegian fjords. Further cleanup is an important part of the government’s political platform. As can be seen from what I have said, the government is working on several fronts to protect our feathers. Norway is fortunately quiet, with a varied, lush and clean nature that it is important that we take care of. I'm dedicated to preserving the special values that lie in our coastal nature. The key to achieving this is a holistic, knowledge-based and ecosystem-based management.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1494	The last thing I agree with is that it should be ecosystem-based and knowledge-based. I also enjoyed working widely to improve water quality in Norway. This applies to fresh water, to groundwater, and of course to fjords. Water management plans are important, although implementation is far behind. It's basically just plans. You have to do this. Clearly, maintaining and ensuring good water quality does not apply to Repparfjord – that is at least the path you are currently heading for. With the emissions and what you put up to there, you won't be able to maintain the water quality that you have today. As I understand it, both in the case of the Norwegian Water Regulation and in the case of the EU Water Directive, there is no exception to achieving good water quality. That's the direction that's important. Where it's bad, it should get better. The amounts of pollution involved here – only these in themselves – will lie in large areas of fjord and ensure that it is lifeless for many years to come. Similarly, it will be in Fördefjord, just as it is now in Bøkfjorden. It is clear that there is a need to assume that there is a need for stronger measures than just monitoring. Monitoring does not prevent or aid anything, unless there are concrete measures to stop dumping if it goes beyond the authorisations available. I mentioned in my post that, as of today, fjord landfill is not compatible with environmentally friendly mining. It's not my words, it's in a report from the Marine Research Institute that they conclude with it. They write that such landfills “consist of huge amounts of waste mixed with process chemicals” and burden the fjord bed with unnaturally large deposits. The landfills contain residues of heavy metals that ‘can cause toxic conditions in the fjord bed’ and make the most affected areas unproductive. In addition, fine particles of heavy metals may spread far beyond what is defined as the landfill area. That is the problem we are facing, and it is the one that the government must take seriously. We're here to have a mining industry, but you can't choose the easiest way to deposit the waste, which is now proving to be in practice the closest fjord. Nor can it be that you have the big, general words and a government that will well – it must also have consequences in the individual cases. You can't be for the environment, except in individual matters. This is a test for the current government — if it wants to improve water quality in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1513	As I said in my first post, there are great values in our mountains. Mineral nutrition is important to the government, but we don't say an uncritical yes. We will impose strict environmental requirements and ensure environmental monitoring of any new mineral activity. We know that new mining operations with landfill needs raise professionally demanding questions. The minimum environmental impact shall be minimised. The cases must therefore be thoroughly investigated before a decision is taken. There is no professional basis for claiming that landfill on land is environmentally better than landfill at sea. Landfill also has an environmental impact. It is therefore necessary to consider each case in concrete terms. Allowing sea landfill is nothing new. The Directorate for the Environment assesses the sound practice of landfills, based on input from different professional environments. In Norway, we have more than 30 years of experience in maritime landfilling. Experience also shows that new bilge fauna is formed within five to ten years of the end of the deposit. Good monitoring is necessary to regulate the emission of residues and minimise environmental impacts. The regulation plan for the Nussir ASA deposit in Repparfjord was recently confirmed by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The Ministry of Climate and Environment stated in the plan that no further investigations were needed to decide on land use. In the context of the plan, the Environment Directorate carried out a technical assessment of whether the water legislation prevented a landfill in Repparfjorden and concluded that this was not the case. The emissions request has been being consulted, and it has now been in the hands of the Environment Directorate. Now this is being addressed, and I would like to add that information that has also emerged since the emissions request was being consulted will normally be listened to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1531	The representative of Elvesuen addresses an important issue concerning the exploitation of large mineral resources, and he specifically mentions the mining projects in Repparfjord and Fördefjorden. Both of these projects are now for government management, and the regulation plan for the mining project in Repparfjorden was recently approved in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. I note that the representative Elvesuen has a broad focus on possible environmental impacts, and that he does not have a greater focus on the great positive effects these projects will have on both industrial development, value creation and bustage. Exploitation of natural resources, such as: minerals, will have both positive and negative consequences. We see the same thing when it comes to power resources, oil, gas, etc. I'm glad that the government has the goal of facilitating increased growth in the mineral industry. The planned Mining Project in Nussir and Ulveryggen is one of the largest mineral projects in Norway for a long time and will provide major positive ringing effects both in the municipality and in the region. The municipality of Kvalsund has approx. 1 000 inhabitants, and opportunities for other activities are very limited. It goes without saying that the creation of around 150 jobs and an annual turnover of between 600 and 700 million jobs. kr after the start-up phase will be very important for both the municipality and the whole part of the country. When it comes to environmental impacts, these are well-lit in the work on the regulatory plan, and the contradictions that have arisen are also well addressed. Both the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries recommend that the plan be approved, and the Ministry of Climate and Environment believe that there is sufficient knowledge of maritime landfill to enable the cause to be dealt with. In the case of the objections to the regulation plan of the Sametinget and the district council for reindeer management in West Finnmark with regard to reindeer management in the area, the County of Finnmark has recommended that no account be taken of these objections. All in all, this is a good and informative management and a good decision from the Department. The interpellant also refers to sea deposits in Fördefjorden in my home state, Sogn and Fjordane. There has been extensive work on the regulation plan in the two municipalities of Naustdal and Askvoll. Both municipalities are positive for mining in Engebøjellet, and so are Sogn and Fjordane County. The County of Sogn and Fjordane also recommended in a letter to the Ministry of the Environment on 23 June 2011 that the Ministry approve the regulatory plan for the extraction of rutile in Engebøfjellet. Action sharks are Nordic Mining, which together with Naustdal and Askvoll municipalities are now doing well in carrying out the imposed flow measurement in Førdefjorden under the direction of the Norske Veritas. This measurement is considered to be very comprehensive and thorough with the highest requirements for professional implementation. It has been informed of findings made during the measurement period, where the conclusion of the trade union body was that all findings are within the limits set in the concession application. New reports on the same subject were expected on an ongoing basis until the end of the measurement programme. Developing a modern and environmentally sound mineral effort is a strategic objective. Extensive control and security measures are envisaged to ensure that the requirements set out in emission loops and in regulatory plans are documented and complied with. Continuous monitoring of emissions will also ensure that the environmental aspects are properly addressed. In Report. St. 39 for 2012–2013 on industrial policy towards 2020, as the red-green government presented to the Stortinget in 2013, but which has not been addressed, they have contributed to an increase in the focus on mineral industry. This includes: expressed by the following objectives: «A valuable and profitable high-growth mineral industry.» And on the other hand, ‘Norwegian mineral industries must be among the most environmentally friendly and actively seeking future-oriented solutions.’ In the same message, it is also made clear that marine landfills are allowed in Norway, and the government platform says that the government will open up for mineral nutrition to benefit from marine landfills, but will impose strict requirements and ensure environmental monitoring. What we see in Repparfjord is consistent with all of this, and it is also good within the objectives of the Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The mining process in the Engebøjellet in Naustdal will, in the same way as in Nussir, create major and positive ring-effects in the whole region and in the whole region, and it will also have to be measured here against the possible negative environmental impacts. I hope that the representative Elvestuen will be able to put in place good and constructive solutions that are conducive to both environmental and economic development, value creation and busteting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1571	The interpellant asks questions about several current and controversial projects that threaten the state of the environment in Norwegian fjords. He sees the activity of the aquaculture industry, in agriculture and, not least, emissions from mining, where the issue of landfill in Repparfjord and Fördefjord is highly topical. These are important district industries for value creation, food production and building. The importance of these industries for environmental considerations and measures to combat agricultural pollution have been put in place. It has been done in aquaculture, where there is active research and development in sustainable farming. In many places the threat from agriculture to the environment is decreasing, but the threat to agriculture when it comes to closure is increasing. The centre party is busy using nature in a resilient way in both agriculture, the aquaculture industry and the potential of Norway for mineral nutrients. We're busy finding good solutions that take care of the environment in rivers and fjords. At the same time, we will use natural resources to produce food and create growth and jobs in the districts. Minerals in Norwegian mountains represent values up to 1500 billion. kr. In the strategy for mineral nutrition presented in March 2013, the red-green government is opening up to maritime landfills. The aim of the government was that Norwegian mineral industry should be among the world's most environmentally friendly, active search for future-oriented solutions and a good balance between environmental considerations, economic considerations and other interests. We are concerned that the knowledge base on such matters should be as good as possible before decisions are taken, and knowledge acquisition will be important contributions to making good decisions. The interpellant refers in particular to Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden. I have firsthand knowledge of the Fördefjord. The distribution of Engebo in Fördefjorden has taken six to seven years. This has been a long-standing regulatory planning process with several impact assessments. The plan is signed by the municipality of Förde and the municipality of Naustdal and approved by the county council and the county council, and now there is a regulation plan with emission permits for treatment in the Ministry of the Environment because of a counterpart from the Directorate of Fisheries. There is an extensive program in progress to monitor the currents in the spring, so the issues will be dealt with very carefully and seriously. In Naustdal, the mineral is rutile, as in others. is used in medicine for artificial hips, knee joints and for attaching dental prostheses. It is a light mineral that can be used for space travel, submarines and aircraft, environmental and nanotechnologies, for the manufacture of electrodes for welding equipment, as colour pigments in total from ice cream to sunscreen and to paint product and resistant building coverings. It is a mineral that has great social benefits and will provide great local and regional value creation. The centre party does not agree with all types of intervention, but the projects that are sufficiently well distributed, and where the impact assessments show that it is environmentally sound, the centre party says yes. We want jobs because we want growth in the districts, in the whole country. It is very important then that the projects are well distributed, but when the distribution is done, the decisions have to be taken. This is important for stakeholders to bet, it is important for municipalities, and it is important for local communities. The center party wants to use nature in a resilient way to create activity and jobs, and we want a resilient exploitation and value creation that ensures future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1586	Let me first thank the representative Ola Elvesuen for giving us an opportunity to discuss this situation that engages many in Finnmark, in Sogn and Fjordane and elsewhere in the country right now. It is quite timely that it comes on the Stortinge agenda, and I fully share the views and concerns of the inter-pellant. It is a situation that brings associations to the 1980s when we now discuss the dumping of toxic waste in Norwegian fjords. At that time the environmental battle was largely about excavating barrels with waste that had been dumped in Norwegian nature. I find it interesting that the Minister for Climate and Environment is talking about cleaning up old sins. It's quite in place, but the question is whether this government is not in the Council of State, is about to commit new sins, which others have to clean up later on. What we are facing in Finnmark in Repparfjord is a situation where we can get two million tonnes of waste dumped in the spring annually – waste containing chemicals: toxic copper, cadmium, mercury and nickel. We are in a situation where the environmental movement strongly advises not to allow waste to be dumped in the fjord, an overall fishing industry says the same thing, and where the researchers at the Marine Research Institute have not been able to recommend this, because the uncertainty about the consequences of life in the fjord is so great. It is a great paradox that we have a system of national salmon fjords, which imposes strong restrictions on the aquaculture industry because it has to take account of the wild species, and so we feel that another industry is allowed to take chances with the environment in the same fjord, that is, the mining industry. Of course, it is part of undermining the full respect for the system of national salmon fjords. I think what distinguishes environmental parties from those who are not environmental parties is whether one is willing not only to talk about the environment but also to put the environment ahead of other interests when necessary. It sometimes means choosing the environmental and nature interests in front of things we can make a lot of money on. The lots which are not environmental parties are characterised by the fact that each time such choices are made, they put the food and money interests first. I believe it is essential that we use the precautionary principle in these cases. This applies both in Repparfjord and in Fördefjorden. The uncertainty surrounding the environmental impact is too great to make it advisable to initiate dumping of mining sludge. I would like to say that when we discuss nutrition not least in the north, it is bold of the Right to launch a debate on who it is that wants to contribute to the development of nutrition in that part of the country, because we know that we have just had a coastal uprising because of the government's plans to privatise the coastal people's right to fishing resources, when we have seen deep cuts in regional development funds to North Norway and there is strong concern in the Nordic business community about the effects of the new regime for differentiated employers' fees. It is these questions that will really determine what kind of value creation and industrial development we get in North Norway in the future – not if we say yes to one application for mining. There are three countries other than Norway in the world that practise seabeds for mining sludge: Indonesia, Turkey and Papua New Guinea. It should be a cross of thought for everyone that while Norway is about to say yes to establishing a new one, Papua New Guinea is about to close one of its own. The struggle for Repparfjord and Fördefjorden is about to become the big environmental battle of the year. I think there are good reasons for that. There's going to be a mobilization right outside here on Saturday. It's a test of whether we get more of what we've seen all this winter, that this government, once again, when the environment stands up for other reasons, chooses to give priority to the environment. It is the great challenge of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment. She will soon have to show that she is able to get an impact on behalf of the environment in a single case where different interests are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1607	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic, and for the response from the Minister for Climate and Environment with many important elements. The management of marine resources outside our fjords is one of the major environmental issues in decades to come. It's about how we're going to manage the marine environment in general and the resources in it, and how we're going to manage and develop the natural disaster. We don't know much about it in many places, but we also have a lot of knowledge about it in some areas after a while, as well as the environment in the fjords where important things appear. I believe, and as I thought the Minister for Climate and Environment said, that setting up an ecosystem-based management, and that a starting point for environmental considerations when a manager – whether it is fjords or large seas – is the most important thing. That is what must define the limits of the nutritional activity, the petroleum industry and mining or other things. So one of the challenges is that the new government that has now come, itself has chosen, both in word and action, to weaken the possibility of that when it comes to the issues that we are going to deal with about mining, among other things. in the Fördefjord. They have moved the decision authority of the central decision, the regulation plan, from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Local Affairs by moving the plan department. It was a deliberate act, because both Prime Minister Erna Solberg and he who later became Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, Jan Tore Sanner, pointed out a number of times that it was necessary to reduce environmental considerations in that kind of decision and make it a recording of the discussion on the same line with other recordings. I therefore look forward to having a debate on how to ensure that environmental concerns are taken into account in the discussions and decisions on matters that are decisive for the management of, for example, the environment. Our fjords. Then I'd like to hear from the Minister for Climate and Environment if we could have a clarification of two other important decisions or processes to go on: the one on the management plans for the seas. The previous government presented the last management plan last spring. So it was warned a race for further management plans, among other things. in the current period, an update for the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan. Will the new government keep up to date with the timetable set and update the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan as planned? And will it follow up and roll the other management plans as planned? The reason I'm considering this is that the management plan regime is the most important thing we have for a holistic ecosystem-based management, and that we're just starting with the resilience and the natural values there, and looking at, among other things, the framework. for the petroleum industry. So I would also like her to say a few words about the Marine Protection Plan. Last spring, the previous government presented – and agreed in Stortinget – the first three proposals for marine protection, or blue parks, as I sometimes call it – just plain underwater areas that are among the most unique areas we have – the salt stream is for example. one of them, which we give a special protection. There is also a list, which many years ago was created, of very good candidates. We also warned that we wanted to move on with more areas. I would like to hear something more about how it works, and what the plans are to present several marine protection areas during the ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1624	I come running into here from another mission, and when I hear what's being talked about, it's actually the blue field from which I pick up my daily profits – to me and my crew – that fishes. Among other things, I hear about the government's position on landfilling mining waste in Repparfjord within Hammerfest. That's where I've been catching a lot of tons. I've made a lot of money there. My colleagues have done what society around us has done. We fishermen who know the current setting – the power of nature – we know how far both eggs and larvae can go with the current. We know, for example. that the main part of the cod spawns in Lofoten, and then we know that the Gulf Stream and the coastal current lead it far north of the Barents Sea, which becomes the growing area, i.e. the nursery. And they're long distances. There are several day-sail passages with power-driven vessels. We fishermen also know in detail how powerful the current is in Kvalsund – where it was a test project with a tidal power plant – and how far the sea that is there can take things. We've seen how far it's going because we've lost tools, we've lost bladders that lie up and float. My father saw it, my grandfather saw it, and this morning the NRK Finnmark presented a new report from the Marine Research Institute. There they say, "Gruveslam will contaminate more than assumed." That's the presentation from NRK Troms and Finnmark today! That's what we fishermen have been saying for a long time, and now the scientists are coming after and saying the same thing. They also say that there is no problem for the fine suspended dust that we are afraid of, and that we know, among other things. contains copper which is toxic to all organisms, to hazard completely beyond the baseline, completely into the coastal waters, i.e. outside the outermost regions. I wonder if this new information from the state's own body – the Marine Research Institute – where we reward people who have competence in this, is something we should listen to. You don't want to listen to fishermen who have learned it for generations, but we have an experience with a system in Norway where we need to listen to research. This is the last research. I think this is so serious that we have to look at it. The government must look at this new information that has arrived. We also remember the consequences when Russia suddenly said that there are some rudeness – some toxins – in the salmon and fish that they had bought. Russia is a great recipient of our products. They stopped several times. The economic impact on industry in general, the fishing industry and fishermen was considerable. When this becomes known – because it becomes known outside the country’s borders – I’m afraid that it may again pose a threat to the coastal industry, to the seafood industry and to the income of both the municipality of Kvalsund, the county of Finnland and the country of Norway. This is serious. This we need to look at more. This must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1640	First, I would like to thank you for the debate, although I strongly disagree with many of the contributions that have been made. I think it is a paradox that there is agreement that it is forbidden to deposit mining waste off the coast of the sea, while it turns out that one is still willing to make sea deposits in Norwegian fjords. I myself have been able to allow marine landfills with polluted masses here in the Oslo soil, but where you gathered existing, polluted masses in one place where you knew that there was no oxygen in the water, where there was no life, where you left it quiet, and where you covered it with sand in the rear. To put something similar in a living sea area – in a living fjord – is to me completely unimaginable, but that's what we're doing here. It's a big responsibility the government assumes, because this has to last a long time. In Fördefjorden it is a matter of operating for 50 years. The whole topography of fjords is going to change over the 50s, and it effectively puts fjords dead in the landfill area in those years. So it points out that there's life coming back in retrospect, but that's not a sign of environmental friendliness. It's more a sign of nature's robustness that – fortunately – there's coming back some life. But that will never be equal to what is there today. It will be far poorer, and it will be something quite different from the diversity you now have in this Norwegian fjord. And here it's life all the way down 300 meters. The Repparfjord is even more incomprehensible to me. We have a salmon fjord where there is no aquaculture, and yet every year 1-2 million tonnes can be dumped – with heavy metals included – in an area with strong ocean currents. Yes, of course, there are commercial interests in mining, and mining should be possible, but in almost every other country in the world you can have mining where you have landfills on land – not put it in the simplest way in the sea next door. There are also industrial policies in the aquaculture sector, there are also industrial policies in the fisheries sector, and there is a real risk of pollution. In addition, you have a problem if you get a reputation problem afterwards. I think we need to close this hole in the legislation that allows mining landfills in Norway. For me, it is incomprehensible that you can assess that this is according to the water regulations, which explicitly say that you need to improve water quality and maintain it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1655	The representative Lighthouse asked a few specific questions. One was about marine protected areas. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has received a recommendation from the Environment Directorate on the further work on marine protected areas in 2014 and we will continue it in line with that recommendation. It is important that the protection processes – in line with the normal protection planning process – will start in the counties to ensure that work is done with good local involvement and anchoring. I must be allowed to come back in terms of progress in the work on the management plan, but the management plan system is being followed up. Then I can assure you that the government is concerned with ensuring good environmental status in Norwegian fjords. That is why we impose strict environmental requirements on both new and existing businesses. There is a strong political consensus about investing in increased mineral exploration and activity. We know that mineral activities have environmental consequences, but I feel that the one-sided focus on marine landfills does not contribute to an overall debate. In the Environment Directorate, it is clear that there are no professional teams on a general basis for land landfills to be better than marine landfills. That is precisely why this needs to be assessed in concrete terms on a case-by-case basis. I cannot now in this Chamber advance the treatment of the matters we have discussed here today. But I would like to rely on the technical assessments of the Environment Directorate of what is the best solution for the environment in each case. The reports now referred to in this debate will also be included in the overall assessment that we will take when it comes to my table. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate. I am pleased that we have such a debate and put important questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1667	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1675	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement at the Stortinget meeting on 25 March 2014 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1794	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1804	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-27.ana.ud1220e1846	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
