ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e35	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Thorhild Widvey and Tord Lien for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from the representative of Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e42	My question goes to the Minister of Culture and Sports. On Saturday, it was a sports problem. Maybe the most important price that was distributed there was the fuel price. This year, the Knyken gang got the prize. I visited them this summer and met a team of volunteers who had built a fantastic facility, and who are involved in taking social responsibility, not only for sports and sports facilities, but also for people who need help to get back to meaningful work. The Knyken gang are worthy representatives of 27,000 annual works that volunteers put into sports Norway each year. In the Knyk there are many jumpers, skiers, skiers and alpine possibilities. It is a large plant that is made possible, inter alia: with 20 million. from the means of play to installations and in addition to the money for operation. The entire financial instrument is now being put at risk. The government says it will approve e.g. The postcode lottery, which does not contribute to financing sport in Norway. In its call for consultations with the Committee on the Budget, the Norwegian Sports Federation states: ‘The means of gambling are the foundation of a national overall policy for the development of sports facilities, and have provided and provided a predictable economic sustainability for the entire sports organisation and its 12,000 sports teams. Norwegian sport is united behind a sound gambling policy and today’s gambling monopoly managed by Norwegian Tipping.’ The government is celebrating the volunteer, but why does the government choose not to listen to the advice of Norway’s largest voluntary organisation in terms of game policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e56	I thank you for the question. This is really important to focus on. I can only stress that the government is very concerned about the non-governmental organisations and their teams and their framework conditions, which are also the representative. It is also true that the government has said in the Sundvolden statement that we are prepared to open up to other lotteries, which may also help to increase financial support to organisations. I do not see that there should be any reason for concern that one should not be able to do so, even if some of the organisations should be somewhat skeptical. As I said, the government wants to create several non-addictive lotteries, as we call them, that can generate revenues. We are currently investigating how this liberalisation of the lottery market can be carried out without jeopardising the gambling monopoly itself. I believe and believe that we can find solutions that allow us to retain this gaming monopoly, while several private lotteries come onto the market. We want a fast process, and we'll probably be able to clarify in the near future how to deal with the concrete lottery that the representative mentioned, the Postal Code lottery, and look at what opportunities we have to help open up to it. With regard to the investigation of a licensing scheme for foreign gaming companies, there is a large-scale work. It's all in the start-up phase. I don't see that there can be a very quick solution to that. But in the case of the Postal Code lottery, we are set to open up for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e71	I can record that the answer given by the Minister for Sport is to say that this fear, among other things. The sport president, Mr. Børre Rognlien, has been targeting several newspaper headlines lately, is real. So you want to make sure that private lotteries come in and take their share of the cake. It means less money for sports. It means less money for all sports teams that today want to build sports facilities. I am surprised that the government wants to spend time with Norwegian sports that way. There is a need for more sports facilities around to be able to engage in physical activity and build good local environments. Then I don't realize that you want to open up to lotteries that don't benefit from volunteering in Norway. I ask the Minister for Sport again to explain how sport will be funded in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e76	Now it's like sports get a lot of money. We're also going to take care of that in the future. An increase in the key will contribute to even more funds in the coming years. However, as far as the Postal Code lottery is concerned, I know that there has been political disagreement between the previous government and this government with a view to opening up some liberalisation in order to allow the Postal Code lottery to be present in Norway. The intention is to open it up, because we believe and believe that it will help to increase the funding of NGOs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e83	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e86	One of the reasons why there has been relatively broad political agreement in Norway over many years, and the opening-up of the exclusive right model, is that we want a responsible gambling policy. Too many people have had their lives ruined by high gambling debts and by major game problems. It is regrettable to note that the government now wants to go away from this principle and investigates the possibility of releasing more international games on the Norwegian market. It is crucial to choose which side to take in this debate – whether you choose to stand on the side of those who now want to enter the Norwegian market, shy the flute and make a lot of money on Norwegian people’s game problems, or if you want to stand up for Norwegian sport, stand up for the volunteering in Norway and stand up for the many people who have game problems. Why does the government choose to be with the international, multinational, groups that want to make money on this, rather than stand up for Norwegian sport, Norwegian volunteering and Norwegians with gambling problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e93	The government is with the volunteers. We are going to be a great guarantor that the voluntary organisations will also in the years to come have good framework conditions. There is no concealment that some liberalisation of the lottery market has been a major political distinction in Norway, between the previous government and this government. We sincerely believe that opening up to, for example. The zipped lottery and giving it access to this market will help generate more money. We will now work to find a way to avoid jeopardizing the Norwegian gambling monopoly, while allowing more private lotteries to be put on the market. I would like to remind you that the Postal Code lottery, to which it is referred, has been on the market in Sweden for a while. It has shown great results and is a well-known lottery.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e98	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e101	The NHO conference today has the title Learning life – learning. It is interesting to look at the countries that have liberalised the gaming market and what has happened there. What we've learned is that it's given increased turnover, larger payments and more aggressive marketing. But it hasn't made any major payments to the sport. Can the Council of State, which burns to do what other countries have done, give an example of a country where there have been greater payments to sport after the liberalisation of the gambling market?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e107	Now I have no concrete overview of whether it has given more money – that is, I can explicitly identify the country in which it has contributed directly to sport. But I know that, for example. The postcode lottery, which has been highlighted, has been in Sweden. The whole purpose of opening up to allow other types of lotteries is to generate more money. This is not to result in less funding for volunteers and those who work on volunteering in this country. I think it is very important to clarify that what is meant to open up to some liberalisation in the lottery market is that it should help make more money for the volunteers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e114	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e117	It's like a couple of hours of volunteering out of the sport, too, that it's not just sports that contribute to volunteering hours. I don't reach the whole story to the game policy in Norway in 40 seconds, but the state has taken from the volunteer time and time again and again in its eagerness to run its own, state games and take away their volunteer organizations. Clearly, it is important when we see that millions of dollars are going out of Norway through foreign gambling companies, that we are getting more of this money – into Norway. But what is important to me is that the Council of State decides two things: one is that it is voluntary – and then voluntary, not just sports – that should have that money, and all conversions should be for the voluntary to have more. The second principle is not to facilitate games that increase gambling dependence, and then you might have to look at some of the Norwegian Typing games as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e122	I very much agree with what the representative said. The whole idea is that it should strengthen volunteering in Norway — including sport, but not just sport — it is very important to clarify. I feel very sure that once you have received this enquiry from, among other things. The postcode lottery, since it was mentioned, is not something they just do without there being any need – it is of course also organisations that have pointed out that you really want to open up to it. I feel confident that we will be able to ensure that these funds are added to the volunteer. That's what's meant, it's not the intention that they should go to anything else, to say it like that. On the other hand, you also have to look at gambling addiction. It's just as much about the games that are established under the gambling monopoly that you have in Norway today, so we're willing to watch it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e129	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e132	Happy New Year. One should not always listen to a heavy stakeholder organisation or do as he says – in this case Norwegian sport. The special thing here is that the Minister of Culture says that the very purpose of getting more into and establishing a market to a greater extent is to give more money to Norwegian sports, while Norwegian sports themselves think that exactly what the Minister of Culture is proposing will not help them. So it will help them with something that the crystals themselves are not going to help them. Then it becomes quite obvious to me that this is an ideological project to get a market, to break down the system that has been good for sport, good for voluntary work, good for preventing one from becoming addicted to playing. My question to the Minister of Culture is: why will she force Norwegian sport on a system that they themselves do not believe will help them to finance themselves better in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e139	Now, as it was also made clear from previous speakers, it is the whole voluntary sector to benefit, not just sports. The fact that an organisation has concerns about opening up a certain degree of liberalisation in the lottery market gives one an open discussion about – it is an honest discussion to be able to take. But I feel fairly sure, and I can only stress it, that the purpose of the government is that this should generate more money. That's why we're willing to open up to it. I also think it might be healthy that you get a certain amount of competition with what has been, with regard to the gaming activities, but the whole purpose of this, is that it should generate more money. There's no indication that the opposite should actually be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e144	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e147	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. There has been a large increase in the number of road fatalities in 2013 after several years with a clear downward trend. The 2013 figure actually shows an increase of 31 pst. 190 died in road traffic. We know that in these days there are many survivors who ask questions about why and how it could happen, and not least about what could have been done to avoid the tragedy. We have no life to lose. The aim and vision is and will continue to be that no one should be killed or seriously injured in traffic – it is a zero vision. Population growth in and around the big cities we know will be strong in the future towards 2020. In combination with general economic growth, increased car services and, above all, increased commuting, the pressure on the transport system will increase. We must be at the forefront of this development and build a safe road system. We have a lot of work left over, it shows the numbers that we've been presented with. Much needs to be done to reduce the number of road accidents. At the same time, I feel that there is a will in all political parties to bet on this, and at Stortinget I experience an increasing awareness of the importance of investing in safe traffic solutions. In road safety work, it is important to focus on the whole traffic system, both the road user, the vehicle and not least the road maintenance. What action will the Council of State take in the short and longer term to help increase road safety in Norway, so that we can re-enter a positive trend in terms of traffic fatalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e154	First, I would like to thank the representative for the question. This is very important. It involves me, and I know that the former state councils were also engaged. The zero vision in terms of the number of road fatalities and the number of heavy injuries has this government – it also had the previous government and the governments before it. It's an ambitious goal. It's demanding to achieve it, but it's important that we have it, because it shows where we're going. On Sunday I was at a memorial in Skee Church in Stokke, where one remembered the six who lost their lives in the traffic of Westfold in the year that passed. Similar markings are found in many places in the country. It is tragic when people are demolished without warning because of events that could usually have been avoided. We will strengthen the work on road safety. There are a lot of projects started by the previous government, and we're going on. We're going to start more in addition. One of the most effective things that you can do in the short term is build several middle parts, and it's about 22 km in place in 2014. We would like to see that number even higher. That is why we are now planning to increase our efforts in the years to come, but we have started all the projects that have been planned and ready to be implemented. Several sections of the four-field motorway are also being built. It will be completed 65 km per year that comes. We see that where one builds that standard on the roads, both speed and accessibility are increased – and a significant reduction in traffic accidents. It shows that good roads are involved and contribute to fewer accidents, so there will be many of those measures. In addition, we also have to remind road users that driving responsibly, driving in your condition and using a seat belt is important, not least. So here we're going to contribute by the government, I know that the Storting is also behind, and there's a lot of nice actors out there who are doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e167	I thank you for the answer, and I feel the answer as an expression of an offensive attitude towards increasing road safety. The Council of State itself mentions an important measure: pitfalls — we know that many of the accidents that occur are meeting accidents or part of meeting accidents. Other measures are reinforced mid-pointing, the improvement of lateral terrain, not least road lighting – many of the accidents unfortunately occur in pedestrian crossings, what should be safe – and curve and cross-repairs. Can we now wait for further efforts from the Council of State – in addition to the number of new kilometres of middle and four-field roads – both in 2014 and in the years to come, to really say that we are working to achieve the targets, and we want to develop a traffic system that people can experience that provides a safe framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e175	I can promise. I believe that the bulk of the population also strengthens this work in the budgetary procedures, including: by providing more money for walking and cycling paths. It is in a way a joyous – if you can call it it – development that there is still a decrease in the number of killed soft road users, i.e. cyclists and pedestrians. It is among the drivers – i.e. drivers and passengers in the car – that one has had a huge increase, which makes this go completely in the wrong direction. That's why it's important that we put even more effort into avoiding meeting accidents. This is one of the main causes of accidents on the highways. One also has some problems with outings. This happens more on county roads. It's a little bit about the type of road, that it's more curved – just because the road goes there. Here we also have to work with the counties. By building better roads, removing dangerous turns, setting up middle parts – all of this – we help to minimise the consequences if one is a little oblivious and gets into the wrong lane.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e186	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e189	Before Christmas we had an interpellation debate about addictive drugs in this room. It was a long and very good debate. Many accidents occur because people are in a drug or alcohol-induced condition. But a lot of accidents also happen because people drive influenced by addictive drugs, even though these drugs are labeled with a red triangle on the box, like a take off. My question is, how does the Minister see that we should be able to go further than we are today, in order to prevent people from driving either in a drug-induced state or under the influence of addictive drugs? We have to go further than we are today, if we're going to be able to reduce this -- it doesn't just help with middles and better roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e196	In the evening post a few weeks ago, it was written about 'forgiving roads': if people are careless or inactive, the consequence of such a lack of attention shall not be road accidents. That's why it's important to have better roads. Safer cars on the roads are important, but of course what the representative mentions – to ensure that the driver is fully aware when driving. That he's not drunk, either consciously or unconsciously, is important. The most obvious thing is to show that these are free people, who make free choices. One cannot have police or politicians who stand above them and look after them at all times. Therefore, it is important to appeal to their own self-discipline and their own attention to what kind of life they lead, and what they do before they get into the car. Here, awareness campaign and information are important. What we consider at the same time is the use of alcohol for those people who repeatedly show that they cannot take this responsibility and who are trying to drive a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e203	Magne Rommetveit – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e206	We have just left behind a year that is very sad when it comes to the number of people killed and badly injured in traffic. I would like to commend the Council of State for having so clearly flagged that these developments need to be reversed and for more measures to be put in place to increase road safety. The road system came last fall with an analysis that shows that distance measurement with photoboxes saves life. Used in road tunnels, this measure provides an accident reduction of up to 27 pst. The Government Declaration states that the use of route measurement should be restricted and that this should not be introduced on new routes until the scheme has been evaluated. Why limit the use of photoboxes with average measurement, when it is demonstrated that there is an effective response to serious traffic accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e213	Many measures contribute to the reduction of accidents. Police controls do it, attitude campaigns do it, safer cars do it. For this with photo boxes. The fact that this government is skeptical about it is more about privacy considerations and data storage problems: One registers cars. One keeps it, and it can be abused. That's why you're skeptical about this. There are some distance measurements already. It'll still have. We want to evaluate the effect of these before we might do anything more. But we believe in other instruments that can have at least the same effect as distance-based speed controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e222	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e225	There's a complex problem that causes a lot of accidents. I am very pleased that the Council of State was so clear. Noise, speed, seat belt, standard on cars, standard on the road and the middle parts are the theme you've been in. We in the committee have met with both the State's accident commission and the Road Directorate in order to be updated on different topics. One theme that has emerged is that there is a negative trend in both Norway, Sweden and Finland. My question is whether the Council of States is willing to look at the consequences of this in the other countries as well. Is there a matching problem that makes you get an increase in the last year? This is a very unfortunate development, which we should do all we can to get turned around.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e232	It is true that one sees a similar lei trend in Sweden and Denmark, in particular. We've already had cross-border contacts at the office level, just to see if there's a common denominator here. When one has had a fall in the number of serious accidents, in the number of road fatalities, and one suddenly gets an ascent, and there are several places at once, a question has to be asked: Is this increased traffic due? Is it due to weather conditions? Are there other things that affect this? It is difficult to find such a common denominator per day. Accidents of death are being carefully investigated. For this reason, there is some information that you will now try to get together with other countries, to look at the following: Is there something coming up here that will allow us to target the measures even better — to prevent accidents? It is very important to work to reduce the number of road damage and the number of fatalities. This affects families and individuals in a very bad way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e239	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e243	It's a serious topic that's been addressed. I am pleased that the Council of State has it high on its agenda. Some of the measures we are discussing here may well be political inconsistency, but much is also widely agreed on. This concerns the need for more middle parts, safe routes of use — with a yellow middle stripe — in the districts, efforts for racial protection, safe roads in general, measures related to who is travelling on our roads, etc. The Progress Party has for a long time been committed to increasing traffic safety and has often used strong words against the previous government. It is therefore a little surprising, when the party now had the chance to express its first big budget – and even had many billions more available than the previous government had – that there was no big uplift in this area. Why was tax cuts more important in the use of the extra billions than traffic safety measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e250	I don't think it's a very pleasant discussion one adds up. I will still answer this question. The new government spends over 2 billion. kr more for transport purposes than did the previous government. It's a significant increase over the time we've had at our disposal. We use, among other things: more money on walking and cycling routes. We spend more on asphalting existing road networks. It makes a person get a better road surface, which reduces the risk of things happening. The biggest effort in our budget is about tunnel safety. It is also part of this debate. Here we use 600 - 700 million. kr more than that proposed by the previous government. It's an increase of well over 50 pst. I think it's good, but it's far from enough. At least we're going to bet even more. But when we ask our office if it is possible to launch several middle-part projects during 2014, the answer is no, so far we have not come to planning. Then there is no point in granting money, if the money is unused in the account. Then it is important to spend more time planning projects for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e261	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e264	My question also goes to the Minister for Transport – Happy New Year! We in the Left have been thinking more congstants for the government. The basis for such a thought was laid in the budgetary agreement with the government, where we were given the verbal decision that Stortinget asks the government to plan Intercity as a coherent project until Halden and assess planning further towards Gothenburg. That is why it was a joy when the Minister for Transport met his Swedish colleague. Such meetings were under the red-green non-existent, and at least it did not contribute – as now – to the establishment of administrative cooperation between the ministry of two countries to assess measures on cross-border routes. Kongstanken here is the Scandinavian 8 million city, a modern railway between Oslo and Copenhagen. Imagine that trains running between Norway and Sweden are currently running on more than 100-year-old individual tracks. It's reverse country. It is not competitive either for passengers or for the carriage of goods, and it results in societal environmental and need-taking challenges. At the same time, think that there are almost 3,000 trailers running over Svinesund every day. It would simply be sterile for cong tanks not to act now, especially when we know that freight will increase by 50 pst. by 2030. Denmark builds a modern railway to Germany, and travel time from Copenhagen to Hamburg will be 2.5 hours by train in just 7 years. The 8-million city that connects Oslo to Sweden and Denmark can provide travel time from Oslo to Copenhagen in 2.5 hours, and that by train. Feel free to go to Oslo S and take the train for 2.5 hours, be the advertising itself – ‘It’s delicious to be Norwegian in Denmark’ – and then take the train home in the evening, drunk on experiences or something else. Think with double tracks, how many lives and how much environment and crowns society saves on moving goods off the road. Think of the King's mind, just think. So I wonder, does the Minister for Transport intend to realize the congstank that the President may feel now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e279	In a monarchy it's natural to have cong tanks at least. With regard to the railway bet, there was a lift under the red-green – it should be credited to them. We take it further, we take care of all of the investment projects that are. At the same time, we have said that we should overcomply with the national transport plan. It appears when we have now given a more detailed order to the Railway Agency to extend the Ringerix Railway in order to realize it. It's been planned a long time, but it also has to be in place. I see that as soon as we did, some people began to worry, among other things. The rapporteur-general, Mr Oostfold, from the Workers' Party. He thought this was sad, for it could mean that someone did not do it in Eastfold. We have the ambition to realize all four directions around Intercity, because it is an important labour market measure and an important housing measure. Getting to work quickly is important and will make people look different at where they live compared to where they work. That's right, as the representative says, I've been to Sweden and talked to the Swedish Council of State. I have also been in the EU to meet the Greek Minister for Transport to see what is happening in the rail sector in the EU. It is important, because even though our closest projects are now about improving the national rail system, it is important not only to look around Oslo, but also up in North Norway, at cross-border rail traffic – also in Trøndelag, for that matter – because both commuters and freight are being transported. What I have asked my civil service to do in the first round is to look at the possibilities for increased freight transport between Sweden and Norway. It is the trails that come over Svinesund that challenge us on the competition between carriers in Norway around this with cabotage, and it is also where there are challenges of road safety. Getting more goods on the track I look at as the most low-hanging fruit we can pick.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e292	It is a good start to meet your Swedish colleague. It was Olof Palme who said that politics is too wild. We in the left, we will. There must be a good dose of political will to realise large projects. Consider that the triangle Oslo – Gothenburg – Copenhagen takes 8 hours today, while similar sections in Germany, France or Spain take 2.5 hours. Some of us get stone age taste in our mouths. We have to help Norway out of the railway poverty. So I'm wondering if the congstant can be operationalized. Can e.g. The council says when he wants to initiate an investigation of this? Can e.g. The Council of State says that he intends to inform the Railway Agency of the start of the planning of that route soon? It will be to follow up the budgetary agreement we have, to put in place a modern high-speed train from Oslo to Gothenburg and so on to Copenhagen and Hamburg.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e299	I believe that the budget agreement at Stortinget gave a new boost to the railway. Priority should be given to maintenance. It happened in the budget agreement. So what's my foremost approach is that we're going to make the trip one takes 200 times a year, simpler and better. If you get a railway that works around where a worker works, you'd probably rather take the railway than drive a car, because you get your head and hands free when a train is taken. In view of the large investments being made, it is still a few years that you are committed to investment in national railways, but it is important to have the perspective of what you will have in addition to it. That is why the message I have given to the Swedish Ministry of Transport is that one should meet and have working groups with the Swedish government to look at what we can do in the short term to increase freight transport on existing railways, while at the same time starting to create perspectives on how we would like this to be in 20 years' time. This is precisely because when we plan on the Norwegian and Swedish sides, we do it to bind this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e308	It opens for five follow-up questions – first Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e311	I think that there was a slightly vague response in terms of the expression ‘will’ to put in place a high-speed route between Oslo and Gothenburg, and sees enough that the Left will put pressure on this to be driven forward in the years to come. It is important to improve rail provision between cities in Scandinavia. This applies in Norway, and it applies from Norway to Sweden. It is a paradox that 10 years ago the train between Oslo and Stockholm took 4 hours and 40 minutes, while today it takes more than 6 hours. There was a higher frequency, just as there was a higher frequency against Gothenburg. My question to the Council of State is: if he looks in the short term, will he, in his contact with the Swedish authorities, take the initiative to put in place a better offer and make better use of today's rail system with a higher frequency and also with shorter travel time, as it was just 10 years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e318	Then I'll try to be clearer. What I've asked the civil service to do is look at the infrastructure that exists today, how we can use it better, get more goods on the railway – more passenger transport too, but it's goods that are my first priority if I'm going to choose. We also need a long-term perspective. When we build the intercity triangle -- or the square, as it now becomes -- Down to Halden, we also have to have a more perspective. Then it's important to have the dialogue with the Swedes in place, so that when we get to the border, they've also done their part, so we don't invest very much on one side of the border, but not on the other side. The same problem is experienced by Swedes in areas that are more interesting to them. At the same time, I have to remind you that there is a big project going on. Unless the Stortinget grants a lot more money, we have to decide whether it is the intercity triangle around Oslo, the Trønderbanen, the railway to be given priority, or whether to put in the Gothenburg Railway before that. So my priority is the urban solutions here, but to have a long-term perspective when one builds up to Halden, as I said, that one also has to go on afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e327	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e331	The Minister of Transport has been concerned about what he has found in drawers and lockers in the Ministry of Transport. I think at least the last ten Ministers for Transport have had similar meetings with their Swedish colleagues to look at better rail links between Norway and Sweden. The Minister for Transport referred to Oslo – Gothenburg. He also mentioned Ofotbanen and Meråkerbanen, but he did not mention Oslo-Stockholm. My question is: what kind of initiative has the Minister of Transport really taken? If he succeeds in this, it is only to wish for happiness and applause, but once the priorities have been made in this room, it is the national sections that have largely abandoned the appropriations. So the question is, what kind of initiative is what he has taken in terms of future development – because there is no doubt that there is a need for development. Is Oslo–Stockholm also involved in this process of thinking, or is it just Oslo–Göteborg that is the project to be further worked on?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e340	It should not surprise the representative that I am focusing on Oslo – Gothenburg when the question is about it, but when the representative Myrli also wants to get an answer on Oslo – Stockholm, I am happy to give it. It has been a topic, among other things. on how to cross the Norwegian-Swedish border in the Kongswinger area, because there you find it quite difficult. There are quite a number of people who commute from Karlstad to Norway. There is a problem that the Swedish Council of State has brought up with us, and of course we have to look at to make a better cross-border crossing. If it was like this that all previous governments have done the same thing as me, I think it is strange that there is not already established better contact at administrative level about this. The Swedes say they have had very good contact with the previous government about what is happening around Narvik. There's been a lot of good. There has been some contact in the case of trøndelag, but there does not seem to have been very much contact with what is happening in the Eastfold and Hedmark areas. So I set it up. So we're going to do the best we can to make things happen faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e347	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e350	I am pleased that the Council of State is so offensive, and the Christian People's Party has great expectations of what will happen on the roadside for the next four years. Transport is fundamental to the long-term and sustainable growth we want. It is important to strengthen the competitiveness of business, it is important for regional development because it knows that people live near places where they can easily get to a station, and it is important to bring down greenhouse gas emissions by getting more goods on, for example. path or to get more people to take trains instead of aeroplanes. This is important in a Nordic context. We know that the Nordic Council took the initiative for a common strategy and cooperation in the Nordic region. The NHO has also called for a Nordic transport plan, as was the case with the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right as proposals in the context of the National Transport Plan. So my question is, how will the Council of State follow up these strategies, and how will he follow up the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right from the setting up of the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e359	This was something we discussed when I visited the Swedish Minister in December. Just like the Norwegian authorities, Swedish authorities also have great ambitions in terms of domestic freight transport. What we agree on is that the effort that both countries make domestically also has to show that we meet at borders just to make this happen across borders. There's a lot left. Many of the plans that Sweden implements, which are important for Norway in order to get what we are talking about today, are very far ahead in Sweden. Therefore, there may be a need for more discussion across borders in order to be willing to commit also in Sweden and Denmark to do something. I think we see that we have bigger and more liberal rail budgets than what Sweden and Denmark have. So they're probably a little bit more careful to actually commit to something that way. What I can say is that there should be a Nordic Ministerial Meeting on Traffic at the end of May. It's supposed to be in Norway, we're the host. This will also be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e368	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e371	Happy must be the government council that has support players with huge cong thoughts, but who are happy if they are followed up by a meeting in the first half of the year! I don't know how many meetings the Red-Green Minister of Transport had with Sweden, but I know that we had about five-fold levels of investment in the railways when we left the government after eight years, compare with what we had when we got in – about a five-fold! The worst thing is that there is a need for much more in the years to come, because there is a huge need to build a modern railway infrastructure in Norway. I of course argued that the Minister for Transport is following up all the projects adopted in the national transport plan. So he said, "Should we go beyond that, depending on the Stortinget permits more money." Well, now he's the one who can suggest greater promises to the railway and fight for it. But in all the interviews I've read with him until now, he's given priority. Will the Minister of Transport propose to increase rail access beyond the national transport plan, for example: to put in place the visions for which the representative Raja here was a living representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e380	This again becomes a bit of a surrealistic debate that SV is taking up, because this government, together with just the Left and the Christian People's Party in the Stortinget, has made sure that the railway appropriations are almost 1 billion. kr higher than that of the previous government. Therefore, the Left and Christian People's Party can be satisfied, even if we have meeting activities in addition, we contribute to the fact that there will still be freight transport on the Raumaban e.g., and we contribute to the work of the concept selection investigation of the railway terminal in Bergen, which the previous government thought would be waiting for after the freight analysis was in place – i.e. at least in one and a half years. Now a lot of things happen faster than the red-green stuff. We donate more money than the red-green ones. But what I feel is that the representative, Mr Solhjell, is involved in this debate, is like the headline in the NRK Østfold in November, where we were concerned about the progress of the intercity triangle in Oslo, despite the fact that this government has said that we should overfill the investment, and we have said that we will give more money. How to make it a delay when this government does more than the previous government, I just don't understand. But we're going to make sure that the Left and Christian People's Party gets many of their king's thoughts followed up even if they're not in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e387	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e390	My main question is to the Minister of Transport. – As he goes up to the pulpit, I can use the opportunity to wish a good new year before we start the debate. The battle for tolls has been the lead fanatic of the Advance Party for many years. Repeated budget proposals have promised to cancel tolls of 25 billion. kr. Former Spokesman for Transport, Hoksrud, promised, among others. in the election campaign that it would be toll-free throughout the country. There have also been a number of local representatives around the country. After the Progress Party entered the government, the government has demanded 20 million each day. kr daily and adopted toll project in Stortinget. Yesterday afternoon the TV 2 bombers showed that the sum has increased to 1.66 billion. kr since the government joined. So my question to the Minister for Transport is, how much does the Minister for Transport expect to take into account tolls in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e401	The Toll Resistance in the Advancement Party has been widely known, and it lives on. In government, we have made a compromise in a government platform, which means that we actually get a trend shift in relation to the policy that the red-greens provided. That means that the toll percentage is going down in proportion to what the red-green ones provided. That is why the Progress Party has had an impact. There are also good policies on behalf of the government. At the same time, more roads are to be built. This means that one in the State budgets in the future will give priority to transport higher than envisaged, while at the same time reducing the level of taxation for ordinary citizens – for tolls is tax. The TV 2 bombers are a very good reminder of how far the previous government went in using tolls as a way to increase the taxing of people. Then it is that one has already managed to remove some toll projects – simply because the bulk of the population thought that having toll passages where one pays $12.50 in collection costs to finance a road is actually a bit poor transport economy. Therefore, the bulk of the population decided not to start some bomb companies where administrative and interest expenses were prescribed to be 40 pst. of the collection costs. It seems quite meaningless. In fact, it's a good economy to give the money over the state budget. Because even if no roads are free by removing tolls, interest and administrative costs are avoided, and since the drivers and the inhabitants are largely the same, they save the population too much. How much you're going to charge in the year, time will show. We're not done with this big year yet. In the government platform, it says that we include, among other things: shall reform the tolling sector by, for example: to reduce the number of administrative companies. We're now working to get one in place. There may be a saving of administrative costs. If a State guarantee is provided at the bottom, a lower interest cost is incurred. All of this may help to change the toll rates or discount schemes and thus even lower the amount of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e415	Even after the new age of 2013, the use of tolls is very similar to that of the previous government and the current one. So it has not mattered much whether the Progress Party is in government or not. I want to challenge the Council of States further on what the level of 2014 will be, even if not all calculations are clear. But I add an additional question: Is it so to understand that the Progress Party has realized that tolls are a useful tool for financing roads – especially around the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e422	I think that all parties that have been in government know what the word 'compromise' means. That means that even though I think the Center Party wants more farmers, it became fewer farmers under their rule. Even if SV promised school food, it didn't. Although the Workers' Party promised water in the swimming pools, it did not. The government platform bears the mark of this. The progress party has not got through for everything, but we have a government platform that I think is very good, because in sum it becomes significantly stronger on the road and rail, and there will be lower tolls than it would otherwise be. In addition, we have reformed the sector, which means that less money will go to administration and interest. More money will go to actually paying off the loans that have been raised. If the representative is concerned about the proportion of tolls, the Stortinget is free to take the initiative to make even more changes to the systems. But this government has had a positive impact on both the Right Party and the Advance Party's programmes, which means that someone in sum gets a different direction from what it was put up to. It is a pleasure for the drivers, for the road users and for the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e431	Follow-up questions are given – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e434	Either the Minister for Transport doesn't know how much toll will be charged in 2014, or he won't say anything about it. I think it is special that someone does not have a feeling about how much the drivers will pay in 2014. What we know is that it's going to be used over 12 billion. kr from tolls for construction of new roads in 2014. My question is yes or no: Will the Minister for Transport set a new Norwegian record in the collection of tolls in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e441	I understand that one here has the pleasure of being able to say that a government council, which everyone initially knows wants less tolls, must nevertheless live with the fact that the previous majority of the population decided a lot of toll projects that the government has to implement. We're going to carry out what the bulk of the population wants. Sometimes we like it; sometimes we don't like it. Because we're in a new government, fortunately, we're going to be like the Biggest decision. There's no doubt about it. I'm guessing the toll will be about 10-12 billion. kr – maybe more. For it was not the stomach of the red-green government when it came to launching toll projects. After all, they have also admitted that many of the toll projects may not have been very reasonable, because there were large administrative and interest costs in them. But it also shows how petty a person has been using tolls instead of taxpayers’ money to finance new roads. We are going to try to reform this sector, among other things. by having one toll company, but with lower administrative and interest charges. We've removed some of the most unreasonable toll projects, and we're still working on other ways to bring down the toll percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e450	Kjell-Idar Juvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e453	Today's government is betting on transportation. It should have, but it also continues on what the previous government said, and follows up the effort made in the national transport plan. The new government shall be measured by what it does, and not least by the promises it made in the election campaign. Both the Right and the Advance Party promised even more road projects in addition to the record effort in the National Transport Plan. I'm excited about how the Progress Party – with the government council at the head – will follow up on this combined with a reduced toll share in new projects. This should be in addition to the large tax base that could go up to 100 billion. kr. At the same time, you have to stay within the rule of action. One of the promises of the Advance Party gave in the election was the bomb-free Halogaland bridge in Narvik. They chose that – they said it must be built now, and it must be built without tolls. My question to the minister is: Hålogalandsbrua is well going, but can drivers now expect that there will be no toll on this bridge, as the party said in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e462	In three months, this government has increased the appropriations for transport by over 2 billion. kr. In addition, we have removed toll projects that will save the drivers for over 1 billion. kr, simply because interest and administrative costs contribute much more to the costs than just the toll. We have accelerated the planning and decisions on E39 and E18. There's a lot of things going on. Everything doesn't cost money. It is also about action, and we have shown that. There are many road projects that are quite correct that the parties individually or together before the elections said that they did not want to be tolled on. Then we've taken into account the election result that actually came, when we designed the government platform – both between ourselves, between other government parties and in terms of what we think we're getting a majority for in Stortinget. There is no doubt that this government is making sure that there are less tolls than the red-green ones provided. What it's like on the individual road billing, we have to come back to when we see how the Storting behaves, so that we get the decisions through.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e471	Hans-Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e474	I want to focus on the collection of the tolls. We know that toll-funded roads will still be a reality in Norway in the foreseeable future. A key objective must be to achieve the most effective collection – most reasonable for the driver list and the most cost-effective for the toll company. Because we want to build the most possible road – traffic-safe, safe roads to approach the zero vision that we, among other things. has been in the past today. What action and progress does the Council of State plan to take in order to achieve a more efficient and cost-effective collection system? And can, for example: a mandatory toll bar is a measure that the Council of State would consider to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e481	This I think is interesting. While the previous questions have challenged us to remove toll stations, but in the Storting itself argues against removing toll stations, this questioner raises questions where he himself wants results in line with what he asks. We work to get one bomb company in place. That means that one will get more efficient administration, and one can work to get lower interest costs. It is essential to bring down the pass price. It will also be much more consumer friendly for the drivers because by being a member of one bomb company you are a member of everyone, while today you get a number of different invoices. One toll company also makes it easier to collect money from foreign trailers in Norway. Today, when they largely escape, it gives them a competitive advantage. In the case of mandatory bombing, we work to get it into trailers because the industry itself wants it. It is not because they are happy about tolls, but when it comes to tolls, they want everyone to pay. In the case of passenger cars, we're not going to work for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e491	Abid Raja – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e494	I agree with the Minister of Transport in a lot, including that the more of the tolls that go to clean administrative costs, the greater the burden. Tolls are actually a burden, an evil. There is no driver in Norway, I think, who feels that it is tremendous to drive through a toll station and get the bill in the mail. And there's no politician who's cheering to build toll stations, but it's a necessary evil, it's a burden, and it helps to finance roads. The progress party is for better roads, I'm very happy about that, but this is related. The more tolls and the higher the share, the better the road and more the road. But how are you going to make this go up? Can the Council of State try to explain how to get one good without the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e501	It's also an important question. Tolls are, in fact, an easy way for politicians to avoid prioritizing within their budgetary framework. For tolls is a way of just printing new taxes to finance the individual project you want to realise. That's why this government has said that it's important to us that we spend our money better, that we manage to streamline the public sector, and that we can make sure that we get our costs down. There may also be things the government doesn't have to do, simply because volunteer, private organisations do the job at least as well. Voluntaryly and enthusiastically, it can also be done cheaper than by having public employees — or private employees for that matter. So this is about prioritizing. Then the reality is that there will be tolls in the future as well. That's why this government has to work to ensure that where someone chooses to have tolls, they have to be the most efficient places, where the money goes for the purpose and not to finance expensive administration, high interest rates and that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e510	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e513	The progressing party moved in a full-page advertisement across the country where they guaranteed concrete road sections developed bomb-free. Today, we know the Council of State, which represents the Progress Party, as the Council of State that wants to make a record in the collection through toll financing. I want to commend the Council of State. It seems like the council has spent the Christmas holidays well, because when I hear the council today, I don't hear a principal toll opponent, I hear an enthusiastic pragmatic toll trailer. My question to the Council of State is: can the voters now relate to a pragmatic optimistically ambitious tolling party that will build the most possible way for the money, even with tolls? In future election campaigns, will you not be fooled by whole-page ads?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e522	This one now trying to create as a news in this room, and as one has done several times, was actually a news that was released at the end of September. The government negotiations were finished, and then it was found that toll policy changes were made with a new government, but the tolls were not removed. It's once again about the extent to which the different parties have an impact on their priorities. Trying to pretend that it's news that the Progress Party in government has to accept tolls is a bit strange. The fact is, this government is making sure that there are less tolls because the Advance Party and the Right are in government than it would be without these parties. At the same time, it means that we give priority to finding more money to build a road, so that you get both a lower toll and several roads because you have a government shift. So I think that all the parties in this Chamber in the next election campaign will fight for their primary position and get the most uplift about the positions you have, then go to the negotiating table – if you get a majority – and negotiate a new government platform. Then it's very clear: those who don't want to get tolls, know which party they're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e527	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e530	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. That quality costs is one of the things life has taught me, including the years of politics. Quality costs in health, in transport, in education — in all areas, including cultural life. We now have a Minister of Culture who has made a special point of talking down how important money is for the cultural field. She was jubilantly pleased with a cultural budget where she had to take a significant reduction from the red-green budget – after the budgetary conference – as one of the very few fields. She points, for example. in the cultural debate: ‘I believe that a one-sided focus on the level of grants over many years has removed the attention from the content and quality of the public cultural debate.’ It's cultural silence, but at the same time, it's a peace reform. In the evening post, the Minister for Culture has said that she should ‘set cultural life free from concrete leadership and content desires of national politicians’. I mean this is turning it upside down. I don't know any artists or cultural institutions that have been unfree to get more money in the last eight years. On the other hand, I believe those students who haven't been given enough space on the cultural sphere because they lack resources, or those cultural institutions that can't offer it the lack of setups they want, may be able to talk about dissatisfaction. My question to the Minister of Culture is quite simply: how will culture become more free by getting less money? Can she give an example of an artist or a cultural institution who has experienced increasing dissatisfaction because of the red-green cultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e546	Firstly, the budget proposed by this government is the largest cultural budget of the time with an increase of 6.8 pst. There has never been as much money – public finances – on cultural life as this government has provided. I'm proud of that. I've also said in the past that I think it's a nation that's one of the richest in the world, that we're going to have a high level of public money in the years to come. But it's also a fact that during that time, among other things. with reference to the Enger Committee, the previous government had a one-sided focus on the amount in terms of cultural appropriations and infrastructure construction. What we're concerned about is actually focusing on the content, and that the content is of high quality. That's why I've said that there's a basis for looking at this. I do not feel, as could be seen – not least from the red-green politicians in the budget debate – that the Minister for Culture was a loser in the budget. No, don't erase, I actually felt like one of the winners of this government. Not many of the other departments have received as much funding as the culture has received. What we want is for us to have less leadership in the cultural content in terms of telling what is good and bad culture. With regard to the concept of quality, it is culture and artists and the activities throughout the cultural field that must define it. I don't think it's up to politicians to define what quality really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e555	I would like to see the Minister of Transport – or the Minister of Health – who went out of the budget conference with 250 in minus and came to the Stortinget and said that there has been a one-sided focus on money in the transport policy, now we have to be busy with the quality. Money is a necessary commitment to quality, but, of course, the debate on content and quality must always be there, as he has been for eight years. Saka is that the Minister of Culture lost at the budget conference, got less money, and can enjoy what the red-green government presented, and then be proud of it. And it's good that she is. Then there's a field where the Minister of Culture has actually decided to go in and manage content, just in the NRK. There is now a notice that there may be a need to see if a person is going to use the license money to produce yr.no. One might be irritating over yr.no these days, but it's a massive success. 99 pst. yr.no is known by web users and there is a large export article. My question is: Will the Minister of Culture go in and direct the NRK and demand that they do not facilitate yr.no?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e564	Firstly, I just want to say that I am very proud of the cultural budget presented by our government. So much for strengthening cultural life as this budget contains, I'm very proud of it. We will also deliver in relation to this in the years to come. Then it is incredibly important for us to stress that we believe – unlike the previous government – that it may be healthy to get the search light fixed on how important the private contribution is in fact. So to this that has to do with yr.no: we in the government have said that we are going to present a big message about the NRK's business, and not least about funding. We have ambitions that we will be able to present during 2015. I expect that we will have a good opportunity to discuss the content of it. I'm not going to interfere with what's really editorial responsibility as of today, but... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e572	Time's up. There will be follow-up questions – first the representative Audun Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e577	I think it is particularly important that the Minister of Culture cannot deny what has been achieved in the media, that she considers interfering with how the NRK presents weather services. There is no news that the public broadcaster is working with weather forecasting. I think it would be special if some politicians think they're going to stop it, or interfere with how they editorialally choose to put this forward. It is also the case – it has emerged from the debate – that if the NRC withdraws from this cooperation, the domain of yr.no will be unused for one year, and that European weather work requires the information presented through these services to be presented non-commercially. Then it seems that the debate in which the Minister of Culture has ended is more marked by the government's need to assess competition and commerciality in all areas than any professionally well-founded justification. Can the Minister of Culture put the debate on yr.no death to the delight of the many Northmen who use the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e584	I have no opportunity as Minister of Culture to interfere in the editorial decisions of the NRK. That is why I have not taken any action to change dizziness.no as it is today, but I have said that it may be one of the areas that could be assessed. The government has not yet concluded on it. But we're going to look at the different activities that NRK has today, and see if they're going to be part of what they're going to have in the future. We shall have ample opportunity to take a decision on this, and we shall also have ample opportunity to have a debate on it in the Stortinget. So the government hasn't said we're going to reduce yr.no, but we've said that it's one of the areas that needs to be assessed when we're going to look at the organization, the scale and not least the funding of the years that are coming. We will have ample opportunity to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e591	Hege Haukeland Liadal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e594	Happy New Year! We read in today's newspapers that the Council of State in its eagerness and enthusiasm is going to turn every stone in the NRK competence company. My experience is that the new government wants to rock the NRK. For example: yr.no, I become somewhat uncertain about the Council of States and I have a similar experience of how to use the weather data at the back. As I understand it, it's non-commercial actors, for example. NRK, which is going to use them. Does the Council of State see that the signals she sends now create an impression of detail management and less freedom, and set the actual framework for why and how the NRK operates yr.no?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e603	No, I mean I really don't. I haven't interfered in, and I'm very careful to get involved in, the editorial responsibility that the NRK and the broadcaster actually have. Over the course of a week, we actually get a lot of enquiries. Not least, there has been a great deal of activity with regard to the organisation of activities in Finnmark — where the various offices are to be located. I refrain from engaging in these things, but, with respect to reporting, because no examples are raised – I have also given support to the NRK in terms of the Traffic Portal, which the previous government actually imposed on them to establish, when the board decided that they should not do so. I've actually said that it's one of the areas where I think it makes sense that they shouldn't. It must then be allowed to raise a case and say that it is one of the areas we have now notified that we are going to go through – the organisation of the NRC, the scope of the activities and not least the funding, and point to this without being allowed to interfere with the purely editorial.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e612	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e615	Happy New Year to the Council of State. Solhjell's concerns were quality in cultural life. He mentioned in a sentence of the School of Culture – about national political leaders. We know that in the last period something called cultural school time was introduced, which nobody had asked for, which was a red-green construction, and which is now being closed down. But what the municipalities want, and what we can't do without it, are the waiting lists and talent development. That challenge is still there. That's what the municipality needed. In 2004, the direct teacher grant fell away, so that the municipalities themselves can decide this. But the framework for getting it done – to increase the business – has fallen away. Culture School is an extension of primary school and a prerequisite for future cultural life. What is the Government's intention to do to strengthen the cultural schools and help municipalities with the waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e626	The President will recall that the follow-up questions should address the main question that was raised, and believe that this is well beyond. But, of course, the Council of State can choose to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e629	The cultural school is within the responsibility of the minister of knowledge, so I think he's the right one to answer that question. He/she is not present in the spontaneous Question Time today. But we will probably have plenty of opportunity to debate this in the future in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e634	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e638	There's a lot of interesting talk here. First, the Minister of Culture said that she should not interfere with the way the NRK operates, but that she might be able to do so later, and that she should add up to a big debate on it later on. I think it is amazing that the Minister of Culture does not dare to give a clear answer as to whether she believes what she herself said about the natural nature of having a big debate on yr.no. Does the Minister of Culture think it is a problem for the NRK to deal with yr.no? Why did the Minister of Culture at all raise the debate on yr.no, if she in the first sentence claims that she is so principled that she should not interfere? At least we in the Center Party don't realize that there's something fundamentally strange about the fact that the NRK chooses to present ourselves in a transparent and good way. Where are the principles, and what does the Minister of Culture really think about yr.no?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e647	Firstly, the government has said very clearly that we are going to present a big message about the NRK. We will have ample opportunity to come back and discuss the overall framework, and determine where the overall framework for NRC activities will lie in the future. That will give the representative and I plenty of opportunity to discuss in the future. But it must be allowed to point out some things. If I had interfered with the editorial responsibility of the NRK, I might have gone in and ordered them not to do this. I didn't. But it must be allowed to raise some fundamental questions and ask if there is any of the activity that is actually there today, which must necessarily be there in the future. I am fully aware that yr.no is part of the agreement you have with the Ministry of Culture – for which they are to be responsible today – but it is not given that you should have it in the foreseeable future. It must then be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time – that you can manage to stay away from what to do, and at the same time invite an open debate on what to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e656	Step Skei Grande – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e659	I remember the main question, so I thought I would deal with it – namely, the government's promises not to control culture and the free field. So I very much agree with much of what is stated in the government statement on the freedom of culture. What I don't understand, and I've really wondered since the government put forward its budget, is that you go into the free field and cut it off – both in the Council of Culture and among the cultural tips. Now the Left went in and saved the government, so the government was given the opportunity to follow up on the good assumptions they have. But my question to the government council is, can she promise that she won't do anything like that again – to go into the free field when it's the free field you say you should bet on?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e668	I expect that we will have ample opportunity to discuss the future budgets for the coming years with our good partners in Stortinget. We agree that we should not govern culture in detail, as the previous government has done to a greater extent. That is why we have also spent a great deal of time in our letters of allocation to remove some of the leaders that we believe should not be there at all. I think we, like the left here, are very concerned about the free field. Now, in preparing for the 2015 budget, we have the opportunity to make the priorities that we believe are in line with, among other things. our statement has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e677	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e680	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. It may well be that he is also given the opportunity to answer a question in his debut here in the oral question procedure. Today's greatest challenge is climate change as a result of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, has established that the main single technology for resolving the climate crisis is CO2 capture and storage technology. We as oil-exporting countries have no doubt a special responsibility in this way. The development of CO2 capture and storage technologies has been and is an important objective of climate policy – an objective to which a coherent increase has joined. In other words, it is a political objective to achieve technology solutions in this field as an important part of the overall effort to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. The technology centre in Mongstad, today the world's largest testing and improvement centre for CO2 capture technologies, is undoubtedly important in industrialising one of the most important technologies of our time. Through the technology centre at Mongstad, we contribute to the development of international competences, and we are involved in producing technological experiences that could make a significant contribution to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. In our opinion, we should strengthen the possibilities for developing, testing and qualifying CO2 capture and storage technologies. The technology center at Mongstad is a foundation for this. The centre should be extended in our opinion, so that even more technologies can be tested in parallel. We therefore proposed to grant money in our budget, but the new government and the new majority chose to remove this possibility. I think that's worrying. It is therefore important to clarify whether the Minister of Oil and Energy shares my clear view and the Stortinge's clear view that the technology centre in Mongstad is of great and valuable importance in the overall climate work. Therefore, does the Council of State agree with the great and important importance of the technology centre in Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e703	Thanks to the representative for giving me the opportunity to actually come up to the pulpit in my first spontaneous question hour. Like the questioner, the Council of State has also read a lot of what the IEA says about climate and the future. And it's quite right that carbon capture and storage are absolutely necessary to get in place, we're going to succeed in that work. Then I want to remind the representative that we also have to succeed in producing more renewable energy, and we have to succeed in using energy better, i.e.: energy efficiency improvement. I am a little surprised that representatives of the red-greens chose this first opportunity to criticise us for the work on carbon capture and storage. In many areas, I did not take over a very tidy living in terms of carbon capture and storage. I agree that much of the knowledge gained from the test centre at Mongstad is important and has considerable international attention, and it is also such that we have continued all the activity that was at the test centre at Mongstad when the red-greens left. So I've said that we have to start this work with pretty blank sheets. We need to be allowed to spend some time developing a new strategy. The last thing the red-green oil and energy minister did was scrape the carbon capture strategy of the red-green government, and there is no strategy for continuing the carbon capture work in place in the department. We must be allowed to spend some time on that, and the Storting will of course be kept informed of the work in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e714	I thank you for what the Council of State tried to give in response to my question. I asked very clearly whether the technology centre in Mongstad will be part of the field of action on which the government is responsible for the climate work. I didn't get an answer to that, but I feel a little more confident that as long as a government council says carbon capture and storage is absolutely necessary, that one actually has to continue this investment somehow, the technology center in Mongstad is really the answer to that. I have not chosen in any way to criticize the government; I have only recorded that it was a cut, a significant cut, of 100 million. kr related to the technology centre of Mongstad. However, I am concerned to know whether the Minister of Oil and Energy is choosing to bet on the technology centre at Mongstad in the process, based on the valuable experience and the valuable commitment that is now around the technology centre at Mongstad, where there are actually several players in line to test out their technology at the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e721	Both the Council of State and the International Energy Agency assume that, in a very long-term perspective, hydrocarbon-based energy from primary oil and gas, but also coal, will be part of the world's energy supply. If we're going to get economic growth, increasing energy consumption is the key to facilitating it. In that perspective, we also have to succeed in carbon capture and storage. However, the objective is to minimise carbon capture and storage. It was only a few times in the previous period that it seemed as if it were a goal that would be the most expensive possible. This Council of States does not agree on an objective. Then I want to be very clear that the test centre and the activity at the test centre at Mongstad is maintained. So the test center on Mongstad is already part of what we're doing. Then we're going to start with blank sheets and look at what we're doing. It's invested somewhere between 4 and 5 billion. kr at the test centre. It would be natural to view it as part of the contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e728	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Anna Ljunggren.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e732	The government has set itself the goal of strengthening the climate agreement – a goal that is also behind the Workers' Party. But within the oil and energy minister's portfolio it has been implemented cut, and political decisions have been taken that are in conflict with this goal. It is cut in appropriations for the technology centre of Mongstad, the follow-up to the potential study to outsource the future to the technology centre is awaited, and the allocation to Gassnova has been reduced. In the light of this, how does the Minister of Oil and Energy think that strengthening the climate agreement is possible in his area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e739	Carbon capture and storage is still a very immature technology. There are built two projects of any size in the world, both in North America. The government has strengthened basic research on carbon capture and storage by 100 million. kr in connection with upgrading the chemical lab at NTNU, we have strengthened petroleum research, and we have facilitated more renewable energy in Norway – so we are well in the process of strengthening climate reconciliation. Then I want to repeat what I said instead. If we're to succeed, it doesn't help clean one plant in Norway; it's about developing technology that's good enough and cheap enough to be implemented in Europe, at first, and then in the rest of the world. Then it's about bringing down the costs. The strategy of the red-green government was shattered. Now we must be allowed to create a new strategy together with our partners in Stortinget and with the rest of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e746	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e749	The left is pleased that the budget is a strengthening of climate action for 2014. Otherwise I am amazed that it is produced as a problem here that there is too little money used in Mongstad. I think the problem is that you've spent too much money, and that it's been too poorly organized in relation to the results you wanted to achieve, even though the testing centre in Mongstad is now important. However, capture and storage are necessary measures to achieve the international climate objectives. We need to set up a full-scale facility in Norway, but there is also a need for significant international cooperation. My question to the Council of State is really whether he can explain his thoughts on how to achieve the necessary international cooperation, and Norway's role in it, in order to put in place a large-scale solution for the capture and storage of carbon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e756	Let me first thank you for both the question and the initial consideration. As I said, the red-greens made at least one wise decision at the end of their work, namely to scrape the full-scale system. It was becoming very expensive and was very demanding. These are industrial projects of a very large size that we have to spend thoroughly with time on, to figure out how we can do this in the best possible way. Then it's clear that building a carbon capture plant in Norway doesn't help and say that now we've saved the world. This is about developing technologies that allow the implementation of carbon capture as a rule, rather than the small exception it is today. We have already strengthened our cooperation with the United States through, for example, to conclude a cooperation agreement on an international test centre network, where the testing centre of Mongstad is involved. It is also natural to cooperate more closely with countries in Europe — the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, in particular — on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e763	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e786	It has been very interesting to follow the debate on the development of the railways Oslo – Stockholm and Oslo – Gothenburg here in the past, and the Council of State is probably aware that there has been a very close cooperation between Värmland and Østfold regarding the new Oslo – Stockholm trasé over Karlstad. I hope he can follow up the plans and the recordings that go on it, because that might be useful. But to another question about the railway: as we know, we have very many unsecured railway crossings, which should be secured in a much better way for the sake of life and health than today. On the part of the Railway Agency, provision has been made for municipalities to be part of a fissure layer in order to ensure these transitions. It's probably a ninety unsecured crossing just along the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway. My question is: Is the government in line with the Railway Agency, and will the government support the Railway Agency and demand that the municipalities pay in full or in part now in order to repair and secure these dangerous transitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e800	The President wants the questioner in his first post to deal with the question as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e803	I'm assuming that today there are 3,700 level crossings. It's a formidable task to secure all of these. Some of them are already secured, for all of them – that doesn't mean you have 3,700 remaining projects. But it is important to do something about where there is uncertainty, where there is a lack of visibility, in order to reduce the risk of accidents occurring. This is a task that the Railway Agency has been working on for a long time. They have their own, we're going to call it the overall plan, where they've looked at all the areas where security is needed, and they're doing the projects in line with what's probably most useful, that is, where the risk is highest and one can get the greatest benefit from implementing it. They're following that plan. With regard to the contribution of municipalities and the contribution of others, if one carries out major road projects in an area where one also affects the railway, it is often a matter of speeding up projects which it is natural to carry out when one first has construction machinery in place. Then, often, there is a cost sharing, so that all actors who enjoy it, or need the projects, are also involved and take the costs. Similarly, in those cases where the municipalities wish to speed up projects locally earlier than what the railway works have on their list of priorities, for various reasons, the railway works invite them to participate, but then there must be a cost sharing, or that the municipality itself takes the costs, simply because the railway works have their priority list. This is in line with how it has worked under the previous government, but I think this is an appropriate way to do it. The appropriations for 2014 have increased slightly compared to 2013. But there is no pre-requisite that local authorities should now take the costs on their own. In the case of projects planned, the Railway Agency is still taking costs, but as I said, when the municipalities themselves wish to do more than what is planned, municipalities must take all or part of the costs in agreement with the Railway Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e812	I thank you for the answer, and we'll evaluate it. But does the Council of State have any chance of saying anything about the possibility of accelerating the securing of these transitions? There are, as the Council of State itself is in, many such transitions, and it is important that we are able to do something with as much of them as possible as quickly as possible. So could the Council of State say anything about the speed of implementing these safeguards?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e817	This is a long-term project, and we're talking about many decades before you've been through the whole list. It is also natural that especially now that a round Oslo area executes the intercity triangle, or the intercity square, as it has now become, a naturally upgrading many of these transitions as well. When it comes to the speed at which each project comes, I would rather recommend that the representative ask for a list of priorities to get something specific about it. This is a purely money issue, and if the Storting wants to get things done faster, you also get the opportunity to give more money to this measure. For 2014, there are 70 million. NOK to this. Last year, 50 million were used. kr, so there's an increase that in percent is going to be very nice, but in dollars, there's 20 million that's going to be. It's kind of a growth, but there's things that will take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e822	Of course, it's a question of money, I see it, and then I just want to ask: is it that the government will propose further escalating funds directly to these measures for 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e827	More money has been allocated for the current year's budget. That decision was made quite recently. Now we have started working internally in the department with priorities, and I think the representative is aware that the previous government also had its first government conferences a little later in the winter/early spring, so we have not yet begun to distribute the money. But everything related to road safety — and this is road safety — is very important for this government and will be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e836	‘During the last few weeks we have had a debate on racism in Norway. It's a social and democratic problem we own together. On Sunday 24 November, the Tristan Dupré of the Progress Party said that the political solution to overcome Norwegian racism is to limit immigration. Does the Council agree with its party trap that the solution is to limit the number of people in Norway who may be exposed to hatred, rather than those who spread hatred?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e843	While immigration has contributed to economic growth in Norway and made us a more diverse nation, this government sees challenges related to immigration and integration. It is therefore necessary to regulate immigration, and there is something both this government and the previous government have been working on. The responsibility lies with the Minister of Justice. As Minister for Gender Equality, it is my responsibility to ensure that we have good tools to promote equality and combat discrimination. As Minister of Integration, my responsibility is to facilitate the inclusion of all those who have been granted residence in Norwegian society. Then language, education and work are important elements in creating belonging. The debate on racism is a reminder that discrimination and racism are actually happening and affect people's everyday lives. There are thought-provoking stories that have emerged, and I find it sad that many young people and adults in Norway are experiencing this. It is important that those who experience incalculable discrimination in everyday situations get this up and down in the light. Social media, which in the matter referred to by the representative, also lowers the threshold for telling about indiscriminate discrimination and makes it easier for many to participate in the debate. It has been demonstrated that discrimination on grounds of ethnicity or skin colour, for example: we have seen it both in the labour market and in the housing market, and that is something we all have to fight. Discrimination is often about negative attitudes, usually in combination with lack of knowledge and insight. At least I want to work to combat all forms of discrimination and I am concerned that we are jointly able to include everyone. It is also important to be aware that ethnic discrimination affects not only immigrants but also other minorities, for example. joint and national minorities, inter alia. Jews. It is wrong to believe that discrimination or racism is about the number with a minority background. It's about a lot more. The government will work on several fronts against discrimination, hateful expressions, violence and racism. I would like, among other things: promoting a universal equality and anti-discrimination law. In particular, I see the need to look at the consequences of – i.e. enforcement – infringements of the Discrimination Code. I would also like to mention that since the New Year, gender equality and discrimination have been strengthened, so that the enforcement of, among others. Discrimination bans should be more effective. In this year's budget, it's set at 5 million. to an action plan against antisemitism. The government will come back to the design of the effort. I believe it is important that the fight against anti-semitism is closely linked to the fight against other forms of racism and discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e864	It is good to hear that the Minister disagrees with the fact that the number of immigrants in Norway is about how many are exposed to racism. For racism is hate. There are many types of hate, with different addresses, and some are more vulnerable to it than others. Homofile is one example, the discussion of sexism in the last few days is another. I would invite the Council of State to reflect on how the same logic as her party trap used would function in these cases, if she used his example, that limiting immigration is an instrument to limit racism.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e869	I thank you for the question. I would like to remind you that there is a broad consensus on regulating immigration, as I also said in my post. There is something both this government and the former government have been working on. Then it is important to combat hateful expressions and discrimination with good law and enforcement. But not all immigrants are discriminated against – on the contrary. There are a lot of people who manage to get well integrated into the community and don't get discriminated against or get hateful opinions in their daily lives. But it is important that we focus on this, and I, as both the Minister for Equality and Inclusion, should have this high on the agenda, because hateful statements and discrimination are all to be combated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e878	The minister said it is wrong to assume that there is a connection between the number of immigrants and how much racism there is in a country. Then my question is: will the minister help to respond to such claims even when they come from representatives of her own party? The Council of Europe has recommended the creation of national youth campaigns on ‘No Hate’. Norwegian People's Aid has a sketch on such a campaign. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party had a wish to finance it, but were not supported by the government in connection with Prop. 1 S. Then I would like to ask the Minister why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e885	Being both Minister of Equality and the Minister of Inclusion are two important tasks, but one must have two thoughts in his head at the same time. My goal as the Minister of Inclusion is that those who have been legally accommodated will have a membership of Norwegian society, that they will be met with respect, and that they will be included in society. Then we know that both language, education and work are important, for which I as Minister will work in this field. Then it is also in connection with inclusion, equality and discrimination, not least, an important work, and the government will now work with a universal equality and anti-discrimination law that will be the focus. There's a lot of things that can get into there that it's important to look at. At the same time, however, an action plan on antisemitism is being promoted. I think it's important that we can get other things into this action plan as well, which I will come back to Stortinget with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e896	‘Petroleumslova gives a clear signal that companies and authorities will extend far in order to facilitate local industrial activity and that the management of petroleum resources offshore will cause ringing effects on land. Sogn and Fjordane have 35 pst. of Norway's oil deposits, but only 1,3 pst. of the land-based activity. Statoil's conversion of sailing patterns will further reduce activity on land. How will the State Council ensure the growth of petroleum activity on land in Sogn and fjords?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e903	The main objective of the petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in a long-term perspective. The government is concerned with good resource management and that all profitable resources are being used. Control of cost developments and efficient operation is necessary both to maintain activity over time and to maximise the value of our oil and gas resources. In the cost-effective use of the entire resource potential, new business opportunities will open up to the supplier industry. We will then best be able to provide a basis for significant activity in the mainland economy for decades to come. It is the operator and the rightholders who, on a commercial basis, are responsible for the most efficient operation of the Norwegian base fields. This includes, of course, having control at cost level. In Sogn and Fjordane, a supply base was established some 30 years ago. Statoil stands and has stood for much of the activity here, but later also other actors have established themselves and are now contributing to the fact that the activity at the base in Florø is much larger than the underlying thing when the base was established. Statoil decided last year to implement a conversion of the sailing pattern from the supply bases in South Norway to the platforms in the North Sea. These changes include: that some of today's supply activity is moving from Florø to Mongstad, and I understand that is not popular in Florø. At the same time, the conversion is calculated for annual cost savings in the hundreds of millions. According to Statoil, this will contribute to ensuring continued extraction and strengthening the profitability and hence long-term value creation of these fields. Longevity also means continued activity on the bases for a long time to come. That's good – also for Florø. In order to obtain the best possible decision-making basis for such conversions, it is important that companies have dialogue with the relevant local and regional authorities. I am aware that in this case there has been such a dialogue over several years, and will encourage continued dialogue. I am sure that the relevant business community in Sogn and Fjordane, which otherwise along the coast of Norway and elsewhere, will continue to participate in the competition for tasks related to the operation on Norwegian pedestal. I assume that local and regional authorities will support these actors and facilitate new businesses also in the oil and gas industry. This is also the way for this region to achieve increased value creation related to offshore activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e920	My question went to the kerosene floor. If I am to interpret the response of the Council of State, it must be clear that it is only 1,3 pst according to the petroleum law. on land, and that this is still being reduced, without any action being taken by the Minister to fill the petroleum slag. It must mean that if one moves, for example. any activity from Hordaland County, it will also be a filling of the petroleum slag – or from Rogaland County for that cause. Is it correctly understood from my point of view that the minister does not see that there should be a reflection of the out-of-sea activity of the activity on land?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e925	I want to be very clear that the government is concerned that petroleum activities will have ring-fenced effects on land. However, it is also the case that we need to be concerned with cost-effectiveness and best use of resources. In the long term, it is absolutely essential that we be able to use both the resources already in production and the new resources on the platforms currently in operation. This is not least important in the North Sea, how many plants have already produced for very many years. So I do not feel that what is happening is near being a breach of the petroleum law. I also remind you that the letters of approval that form the basis for the businesses out here, in these cases, are not signed by this Council of State, but mainly by the Red-Green Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e932	I believe that the Minister says that there is no «in the vicinity of a breach of the petroleum law» when reducing land-based activity today in Sogn and Fjordane is at 1.3 pst. So, where do the state councils think the boundaries are going? If you look at regions only, you will see a signal effect. What kind of signal effect does the Minister think his answer here gives for example. future extraction of Lofoten? If we're going to assume that a minister doesn't intervene when there's a reduction and there's only 1 pst. When will the minister intervene when it's zero?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e937	Let me say this: I am pleased that there has been broad political agreement both on the issue of ownership management of Statoil, and on the vast majority of major lines in Norwegian petroleum policy. The Workers' Party has had a tradition of being a solid part of that foundation, and I hope that the Workers' Party intends to continue to be in the future as well. I do not feel that the petroleum law goes into any percentage. I also have no need to reflect on the percentages now. I want to be clear about the two things that I think we need to be able to think about at the same time: one is to ensure local value creation, and the other is good resource management and cost-effectiveness on the base. These are the principles I have experienced that the Workers' Party has also joined in the more than 40 years we have been engaged in petroleum activity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e950	"The interest in chess has exploded since Magnus Carlsen recently became world champion. Checkers are re-established. The media interest is enormous, and many suns in the shine of the superstar from the Lomme Valley. On direct questions from VG about chess can contribute to better school outcomes, Prime Minister Erna Solberg confirms this. "This is about the next generation lifting Knowledge Norway," she said. How does the government see that chess should contribute to better school outcomes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e957	First, I would like to thank you for a nice question. It has been very good that there has become more interest and commitment to chess in Norway and the Norwegian school as a result of Magnus Carlsen fighting over the world championship title. Magnus Carlsen is a good example of the importance of targeted work and concentration in achieving a high level of skill within an area. The increased interest in chess can also provide positive help for learning in schools, and that is what the representative asks about. For example, a chess may be: contribute to the training of concentration and may contribute to the exercise of logical thinking as a skill. Then, of course, the government – and I am absolutely sure that the representative also agrees – has not intended to manage the school through the use of specific pedagogical instruments. In other words, there is no suggestion to instruct Norwegian school students to play chess. I think that makes sense too. But it is important that we, too, as politicians, can be ambassadors and say that chess can be one of many tools that teachers and schools can use in learning. Schools and teachers need, of course, to assess, in the light of the specific situation and their own pedagogical judgement, how best to use chess as part of the training. It might also be an idea to talk to chess enthusiasts in the community, because there are many of them. Through the new interest in chess, there has been a positive commitment that I am sure teachers and schools themselves know best how to exploit. Good teachers are able to use children and young people’s involvement in current events into teaching. In this way, the interest and commitment of chess can also contribute to good training.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e968	I thank you for your answer. I agree that it would be very unreasonable to ask not least many adults who do not control chess, to try to teach children chess. I don't think that's a good prescription. I also believe that both the Minister and the Prime Minister show a good understanding and a broad knowledge view when they point to the relationship between the ability to sit still, the ability to show concentration and the ability to solve difficult tasks over time — and in particular, it links to PISA results that demonstrate that there are skills that Norwegian students need. My question is related to action, because I think we have to go from talk to action. We can talk and have role models, it's important, but if you're going to go something into school, and want the school to do more of an activity, it requires more, I think, than just Torbjørn Røe Isaacen and I are discussing this in the Question Time, and a Prime Minister and other politicians are going out in the media. What does the government do with this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e977	I'm not going to make this a big ideological issue, but I have to admit that I don't see the world so that every positive thing that's good for the school needs a political action plan presented by the government. It is possible that I misunderstood the representative now, but if what is requested is a form of chess action plan for the Norwegian school, I do not think we need it. Some of the reasons why it's just that the commitment that now comes for chess, not because of a political decision or something like that, it's because we've got an excellent practitioner, and that many then get interested in chess as games. I also noticed myself: I played a little chess as a kid, and now I suddenly became interested in trying again. So it's absolutely right that the school needs to work systematically with the skills that are at the root of it, too, in order to get better results on the PISA tests, and there, of course, the government has a clear policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e984	This is a debate that is taking place in many countries. There's been chess in school before; formerly, chess was an elective. That's a possible way to think about it. The second is that there's a lot more chess in school through the SFO today than it was, and many of the talents that are in the shadow of Magnus Carlsen have started playing chess at the SFO. But we know that not everyone is going to the SFO, and that you have to pay a lot of money both to join the SFO and also to choose the chess course on the SFO. In addition, this government has taken away the cultural school hour. It was an hour when you could put in this type of activity, regardless of whether you think chess is sport or culture, which it's also been a discussion about. I therefore believe that there are many reasons to assess this type of subject. I want the cultural school class back again, and I want you to think chess into other subjects, either as part of the math class or maybe as a SFO elective.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e991	I'm like, very positive if teachers want to use chess in math classes. I think that would be very good. But I think it would be wrong to make a central order that now there is a lot of attention around chess, do it. I think it's the schools and the teachers who have to decide. I'm open to the proposal that you can look at the electoral fields. It was the previous government that decided both the number and the content of the new electives. The government that is now sitting has in any case planned to review them, among other things. to see if there are clear enough learning objectives in the electoral fields and to see if they clearly build up under the important learning objectives in the school. In the case of the cultural school, it was linked to the local cultural school. I have to admit that I had not realized that there was a big bet on chess. In any case, the government’s priority was precisely that of real science skills, among other things. through continuing education, was more important than a cultural school hour in the school leisure system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e1000	The ordinary Questionnaire is thus terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-08.ana.ud2027e1013	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
