ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e86	Three permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Kjersti Toppe from 22 May onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Anette Trettebergstuen on 22 and 23 May to attend, after an invitation, the US Congress in Washington from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Inbjørg Amanda Vosskensen from 23 May to 26 May to take part as an observer of the European Council parliamentary assembly at the Presidential elections in Ukraine On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave as follows: For East-Agder County: Lene Langemyr 23 May For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen 22 and 23 May For Hordaland County: Sigrid Brattabø Handegard 22 May and until further notice:
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e132	Lasse Juliussen and Sigrid Brattabø Handegard are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e138	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sylvi Graham and Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Sylvi Graham and Hans Andreas Limi are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e145	On behalf of Pål Farstad, André N. Skjelstad, Abid Q. Raja and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to abolish the statutory minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e150	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e153	I would like to put forward a proposal to stop the increased commercialisation of labour-oriented measures to ensure the best possible quality and performance in Nav, and a proposal to provide safe conditions and better cooperation between Nav and the population through the establishment of a Nav Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e158	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e162	On behalf of the representatives of Iselin Nybø, Abid Q. Raja and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to strengthen the health and well-being of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e167	The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e170	I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Knut Storberget, Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself on changes to Section 3 of the Criminal Enforcement Act – the responsibility of the Criminal Service to care for children of convictions etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e175	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e193	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change announced two things earlier this year. One is that it is more urgent than ever to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. The second is that the figures are larger than ever because so many countries are increasing emissions. We've been talking a lot and a lot about this for a very long time. As we talk, it evolves in front of us and everyone else's eyes an ever-increasing gap between the magnification and government creates the impression of doing, and what is done. The relationship between the impression of collapse and government is creating about Norwegian climate policy, and the climate policy that is actually being pursued has become unsustainable. Norway does not deliver the actual emission cuts we have to deliver to give our reasonable contribution to the global climate job, and the distance between what we say and do produces the poison that is most dangerous to the democracy we now celebrate with so much commitment to these days: politician contempt. At the same time, fortunately, there are signs of political movement and willingness to re-acknowledge in the United Kingdom and in the Government. The Green Party's intention of this interpellation is to invite everyone to put aside the standard defence of their own policies and to ask: What measures can we agree on now, which brings the Norwegian climate action closer to what is actually needed? But we have to take over some facts. So the climate panel has recommended rich countries to cut 40 pst. We've decided to cut 30 pst. We've impressed Norwegian voters that the climate agreement is ambitious and means we're cutting 30 pst. by 2020 and take two-thirds of the emissions cuts at home. Of the voters who know anything about Norwegian climate policy, at least 90 pst know. This – 30 pst. Cut, two thirds at home. But we who sit here know that this is grossly wrong. The climate agreement involves cutting Norwegian climate emissions in Norway by only 5 pst. by 2020, compared to 1990 levels. We know that the truth is even worse. Norwegian emissions are not decreasing – they are increasing. They've increased by 5 pst. since 1990 and 2 pst. only in the last few years. CO2 emissions have increased by 30pst, but thanks to industrial measures that had little to do with Norwegian climate policy, other types of greenhouse gas emissions have been cut, which complicate the actual increase in CO2 emissions. In addition, a very large part of the alleged 30 pst cut in CO2 emissions shall be taken through the purchase of UN and EU allowances. Everyone has come to realize that it's a very dubious calculation exercise to resume the purchase of UN allowances, i.e. CDM allowances, back to the Norwegian climate accounting as compensation for not cutting emissions here. Experts consider the CDM system to be dying. Nevertheless, it is foreseen that large parts of Norwegian future emission reductions will be taken when purchasing CDM allowances. At the same time, more and more people believe that the EU allowance market, ETS, is not working. The surplus of quotas in the market is enormous. Everyone gets the quotas they want. Prices are low and ETS quota purchases do not lead to technological development and not to emissions cuts. This situation is likely to last for a long time. Nevertheless, it is foreseen that large parts of so-called Norwegian emission reductions will be made through the purchase of ETS allowances. However, the scale of quota purchases has a climate impact in Norway. The effect is that quota purchases are systematically used as a reason for not taking emission reductions in Norway. The decline of 8 million tonnes in the climate agreement, which the government has been very well documented, is now well known. But last year we approved the Kyoto 2 agreement here in the Great Britain, and then I said from this pulpit: the representatives and parties that have not intended to implement this should vote against Kyoto 2. Everyone voted in favour. With Kyoto 2, the Stortinget committed itself to Norwegian emissions being 43 million tonnes on average each year for the period from 2013 to 2020. Today, the number that's known is 53 million tons, and it's increasing. The gap between the target and the actual Norwegian emissions must be covered by measures and quota purchases. We probably have to buy about 56 million tons of allowances in this period. That's twice as much as we bought in the Kyoto 1 period. But corruption and government are right now in a phase where the will to adjust policies is signalled. The government insists on strengthening climate reconciliation, and a better basis for debate has been created through the evidence of a lack of emissions reduction. There is a majority to electrify Utsira, and there is a real majority to withdraw the oil fund from coal companies. This, as well as new signals from key politicians, points to the possibility of a strategic and, in principle, significant strengthening of climate policy. However, the absolute prerequisite is that further climate policy measures become sufficiently ambitious to allow Norway to meet its climate obligations reasonably, and that measures become so comprehensible, concrete and obligatory that governments and large numbers can be measured by whether we deliver. The Green Party believes that such a policy should be anchored in three points. Firstly, tonnes. What matters to Earth's climate is how many tons of greenhouse gas is emitted into the atmosphere. The most important thing for Norway’s climate accounts is how many tonnes we intend to release in the years to come. We have to tell what we want to do with the emissions of 2.4 million tonnes from Mongstad, 1.1 million tonnes from Yara Porsground, 1.1 million tonnes from Statoil on Melkoya, 0.8 million tonnes from Norcem Brevik, 1.2 million tonnes from construction, 10 million tonnes from road traffic and 14 million tonnes from the oil industry. That's what we need to inform about, commit to and talk about. That's what the climate understands, and that's what people understand. Point two is sector. The National Audit Office wrote in 2010 that there are major weaknesses in how the various departments discharge their sectoral responsibilities. Sectoral ministries have, to a small or no extent, operationalised climate objectives through work objectives and the concreteisation of instruments or given a steering signal on climate targets to underlying agencies. In the autumn, CO2 storage in Mongstad – the moon landing – was scrapped. 1 to 2 million tonnes of CO2 that should have been removed are still emitted into the atmosphere – twice as much as we now remove by electrification of Utsira. If the oil sector had a binding emission target and a clear, binding cut-off plan, the sector and the government had to have answered how to cut the 1.2 million tonnes they did not cut in Mongstad. Councillor Lien had to answer this, or he had to ask, for example: State Councillor Solvik-Olsen if perhaps he could take these cuts in transportation instead. State Council Solvik-Olsen would probably answer: No, I have enough with my own cuts, pick you up home and cut myself. Point three is control. The vast majority of sectors in the Norwegian community are controlled for the purpose of achieving targets, and deviations are pointed out in detail, not least here in the United Kingdom. However, no sectors in Norway are controlled for, or have to be politically enabled, the achievement of targets in greenhouse gas emissions. If Prime Minister and Council of State had had to provide the Stortinget with technical evidence of national and sectoral developments in the achievement of greenhouse gas emissions targets, we would have had a climate debate about realities. We would have a climate policy that actively pushed forward concrete actions to achieve targets. Norway now has massive and undisputed experience that the way we have pursued climate policy up to now gives very poor results. It is more than obvious that the deficiency, as pointed out by the National Audit Office, is concrete targets, commitments and plans that can be implemented both centrally and in a sector-by-sector manner and that are controlled and reported routinely. This type of commitment and control is basically routine in most other areas of country and business. This can be achieved in several ways in climate policy. The main point is to implement well-known mechanisms to ensure target achievement. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Centre Party and, as far as I am aware, the SV and the Greens believe that climate law is an appropriate instrument. A climate law will not be one among many other climate action. It will be the committed and systematic framework around all climate policies that set targets, creates a mechanism for implementation and commits those responsible for implementation. There's got to be better solutions or other solutions, but something has to come up. The size cannot be known to continue the climate policy we are currently pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e244	I would first like to thank the representative Hansson for giving me the opportunity to deepen the government's strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This year there have been several important reports that provide a serious backbone for climate policy. We received two interim reports from the United Nations Panel on Climate Change’s fifth main report at Easter times. They draw a clear picture of the challenges. The reports say that we can reduce the risk of dangerous climate change, but then we need rapid emission reductions and a holistic transformation of society. In addition, we need to adapt to the climate change that is already here. This means that all countries need to do more, including Norway. We have to cut our emissions faster. We need to contribute even more internationally, and we need to establish a new, binding global agreement. Another central report is the so-called Gap report from the Environment Directorate, which came in March. I ordered the report to get a status overview of the climate work. It showed that we need to reduce Norwegian emissions by 8 million tonnes by 2020 if we are to achieve our climate change target. But 2020 is just an intermediate station. There are significant changes that need to be made. We're going to be a low-carbon society by 2050, and on the way we have to cut emissions. In fact, we have to change independently of the climate challenge. That's two more reasons. Firstly, employment in oil and gas production will decline. The wise heads and active hands in Norway must have safe green jobs. We need to use our resources for a shift towards the low-carbon society. In the future with a higher price of CO2 than today, winners will be the ones who are able to change. Secondly, the world is experiencing significant urbanisation. This is also happening in Norway. The move to cities is so extensive that we can't rely on car-based growth. In that case, it would mean queue, cork and chaos, air pollution and noise – just a little nice cities. That is why we are working for the growth of passenger transport to be achieved by public transport, corridors and bicycles. The climate challenge requires all countries to contribute. The most important thing is that we get a binding international agreement in place. Emissions have fallen overall in the EU and the United States in recent years. At the same time, there has been a rapid growth of emissions in several emerging economies, such as China and India. So in order to ensure a robust, long-term and ambitious agreement, both today's and tomorrow's big emitters must have obligations. We are now designing our contribution to a new climate agreement and climate commitments after 2020. We did not exactly get to the covered table after the previous government in terms of national emission reductions and the 2020 target. The government has said that the climate agreement is firm, and it has to be strengthened. This means that the points of the agreement are followed up further, and that the Health Declaration relevant to climate policy is, of course, also implemented. We have to make wise, sustainable decisions that stand over time. We're not going to dictate everything that's going to happen, we're going to make things right. The transition must take place in all parts of society. We have already implemented a number of climate action. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have strengthened Transnova. We have delivered a very good rail budget and given green light to Follobanen. We're going to enter into urban environmental agreements with the largest cities and finance up to 50 pst. of large collective efforts. We are now working on a biogas strategy to contribute to increased biogas production and use. In the revised national budget, the Government proposes to accelerate the phasing-out of oil fires as a base load in state buildings from 2018 to 2016. The Government also proposes, in the revised national budget, to significantly increase the annual return of the Climate, Renewable Energy and Energy Conversion Fund and therefore proposes to increase the annual capital contribution by 4.25 billion. kr in 2014, 2015 and 2016. The government has granted 100 million. kr to a joint European research project on carbon capture by NTNU. I have said in the past that I have a vision that we will have a fossil-free transport sector by 2050. I think that's quite possible. Norway can refer to fantastic sales figures for electric cars and also other types of low-emission cars, such as hybrid cars. When Norway succeeds better than most other countries, it is due to the fact that the charging system delivers low-emission cars and penalises high-emission cars. Many actors are actively working to put in place bus technology based on electricity and hydrogen. The Environment Directorate pointed out that buses and lorries are suitable for biogas transition, since they reduce both greenhouse gas emissions and local air pollution. Eastfold County has been a pioneer here and has 100 biogas buses on the roads in Lower Glomma. We have several ongoing processes: The Prime Minister and I invited the government to the climate table in March and got many exciting recordings. Parts of business want to bet on e.g. biogas in heavy transport. They want both whips and carrots. We must follow up the dialogue with businesses and organisations through the establishment of a Climate Change Council. We also picked up the concept of ‘climate law’ from the drawer in which the previous government put it. We have an investigation on the way. I have asked the Environment Directorate to consider how different measures and instruments can help convert Norway into a low-carbon society by 2050. The government proposes to appoint a sample before the summer to propose a green tax change. However, it is not for the government to solve the whole climate challenge. It's a virtue that everyone has to share in. You and I as individuals have to make some choices about our transport, our energy consumption and our consumption. Municipalities can go ahead and choose an electric car already today for their service cars. They can even save money on it. The counties may make demands, as the Eustfold County Municipality did with the biogas buses. Business life can go ahead, such as: Kiwi does when they set up 50 quick chargers, and so Borregaard has done by building a biogas plant. I believe that the company that does not take this seriously will have problems. Our job as politicians is to ensure predictable framework conditions that facilitate the transition to a low-carbon society. This should not necessarily happen by subsidising climate-friendly solutions. This may as well be the case by giving a premium to those who choose climate friendly, with low charges, and punishing those who choose high emissions, with higher charges. It's like this. the one-off charge for passenger cars works. 2020 is an important year in climate policy. But we also need to make decisions today that will lead to long-term emissions cuts. I believe the representative Hansson and I can agree on at least one thing – perhaps we can agree on more – that the low-carbon society will be a good society to live in, with clean air, little noise and less queue and chaos. The high-emission society is not an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e315	I would like to thank the Council of State for various good reflections and a long list of interesting measures. Maybe it's a better policy that's now prescribed, than the one that the red-green government led for eight years. I hope so. I will do my utmost to cooperate on behalf of the Greens. But the policy that the Council of State prescribes has one thing in common with the policy that has otherwise been pursued up to now on the Norwegian climate problem: not one figure, not one tonne, not one commitment. The obligation that we have adopted here in Stortinget is that, from 2013 until 2020, Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions should be 43 million tonnes per year on average. They're this year at 53 million tons. We're already 10 million tons behind that form. The question we have to ask ourselves again is: How many tonnes does the government mean – and how many tonnes will the government commit – that Norway will release in 2015, 2016 and 2017? How much are we going to cut in 2016 and 2017 in a road traffic that today emits 10 million tonnes? When are we going to cut into the four major point emission sources Mongstad, Snow White, Yara and Norcem? When is that going to happen? When do we get rid of these emissions? That is the kind of question that Norwegian climate policy has to answer in order for there to be reason to believe that one is going to deliver in terms of the obligations we have assumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e324	I don't entirely agree with all of the interpellant. I also have to correct an actual error. It was said that the increase in greenhouse gas emissions was 2 pst. from 2012 to 2013. It was at 0.2 pst. from 2012 to 2013. The state budget reports annually on the evolution of emissions. Saying that it is obvious that Norwegian climate policy has failed, I disagree. This year we delivered our sixth national report to the United Nations Climate Change Commission. Here we assumed that greenhouse gas emissions would be 17.1 to 20.1 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2020 if we had not had the climate policy we have had in recent years. In the climate policy based on a broad settlement in the Storting, a choice has been made to overcomply with the Kyoto Protocol. One has an ambitious target of 30 pst. cut by 2020 and a carbon neutrality target. We also have the challenge of trading in allowances. But saying that it doesn't work at all, I disagree. I mean, it's a truth with modifications. The trading of allowances shall operate to the extent necessary. The problem now is that there are too many allowances available and that the price is too low to develop any particular new technology. Working to improve trading systems is important. Getting an international price of carbon that will speed up development is important. But at the same time – here I fully agree with the representative Hansson – we need to work concretely in Norway to reduce our emissions. I referred to a number of concrete actions that are under way and that will reduce emissions, such as rail investment, multiple allocations for bicycle routes, participate in and finance large public transport projects in the major cities – we are negotiating urban environmental agreements – and significantly increase the yield of the Climate, Renewable Energy and Energy Conversion Fund. The policy we have had has actually blocked up to 20 million. tonnes of annual emissions. But I agree that that's not good enough, and that's why we have to do more. What we can actually cut in 2015, 2016 and 2017, I can't give an exact answer to now, but I'm giving good examples of policies that will cut tons in the future. The target is 2020, but 2020 is also an intermediate road to the low-emission society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e340	I would like to thank the Greens for this important interpellation, which gives us the opportunity to discuss road choices in climate action. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Greens for having become an important and new voice in the Norwegian climate debate, which has contributed to a strengthened force in this important debate. We live in a time of destiny. Time is beginning to run out if we're going to reach the UN 2 degree target. We have no time to lose. We've gained a lot more knowledge of climate change in the last year. The UN climate reports show how serious this is and how fast this is going. At the same time, we also know more about how to address climate challenges. We have the technology available, and we know which instruments work best. It's a paradox that we know more about both the consequences and the instruments while we're more and more away from achieving the goal. The climate problem is global and can ultimately only be solved globally by taking on commitments by all countries. But there can never be an excuse for not acting right now, because climate change is not the future, it's happening around us. We have to act while we negotiate. It may not be the case that those countries that want to least have to decide the pace of action of all other countries. Then, for example, we have to. stopped having a debate about whether to act at home or out, because the answer is so obvious: we have to do both. We have to do more of both. Because there is no difference between investing in rainforests in poor countries and electrifying our own base. That is not what climate policy choices are about. I do not fully agree with the premise of the representative Hansson that everything in Norwegian climate policy has failed. The red-green government produced two climate announcements, green certificates were established, and emissions in Norway went down while we went to the front in the world. But I will in no way beat myself on the chest and say that we did enough, for climate change is so big and so serious that no government, no parties can say you've done enough. We have to be impatient and ambitious to get more. While today we have a government that has said that climate is not one of their eight most important issues, the Labour Party has pointed this out as its most important issue. It is true, as our leader said after he was cancelled, that the climate has to lay the framework for all Norwegian policies. We need to be more ambitious about what we're going to get here at home in Norway. We play a role in actual emissions. Norway is a small country, but all parts of the world can be broken down into very small units. It is when the little ones take responsibility that it plays a role. We also have an international role by being a country that shows that the low-carbon society is both possible and profitable. We must be a country that is driving forward new technology. The red-green government has received a lot of hoax for the Mongstad project and because our prime minister then, Jens Stoltenberg, called it the moon landing of our time. The last time I heard it was a loud cheer when Erna Solberg was awarded an astronaut. And much can be said about Mongstad, but I would much rather have a Prime Minister who dares to be visionary, who dares to set ambitious goals than one who does not. Our new prime minister has so far been very little ambitious in the climate issue. One hour after her own country meeting, she went out and said that the decisions that had been taken were unrealistic. It says a little bit about the level of ambition when you just hours after the decision is taken, cancels your own promises. We heard again that we are going to strengthen the climate agreement, but so far there has been very little climate initiative from our new government. We are waiting in suspense – when are the answers coming? What's going to strengthen the climate agreement? And will this government also present a climate communication? It's not just that we're far from strengthening climate reconciliation; our new government is in no way on track to reach today's climate settlement. The Environment Directorate has said that if we are to reach today's climate agreement, we need to electrify Utsira. Here our new government has not taken hold. Fortunately, we have an opposition – a climate opposition – on the Stortinget that is ready to take responsibility when the government does not. So when the climate minister loses internally against the oil and energy minister or against the finance minister, who leads a party that still does not believe in climate change, she gets to the Stortinget and gets help from the six opposition parties to implement a more ambitious climate policy. We have a new government that went to the elections on the promise of new ideas and better solutions, and after six months there is unfortunately not much we have seen in climate policy – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e363	It was interesting to hear Mr. Gruver Auversut's comments, because the reason we're so bad at achieving the climate goals that we've agreed on together is that the red-green government did too little when it had the opportunity. Eight years of red-green government gave us a poor starting point for achieving the 2020 targets. That means that the sitting government has to reinforce the climate agreement, as we promised, in order to be close to reaching the goals that we have agreed. It was mentioned that the red-green government provided two climate announcements. That's right. Both were strongly criticised because they did not contain enough measures to be close to meeting the objectives we are committed to achieving. Therefore, the government had to come to the Storting, where, through two climate settlements, we contributed significantly to strengthening climate policy – but not enough, because we did not get the government on everything we wanted. Fortunately, there is now a new government, with new initiatives and new ideas, which will help cut emissions at home, but also help Norway to take its share of responsibility for reducing emissions out. There is no doubt that in Norway, with our technology, our competence and our capital, we have a unique opportunity both to cut emissions at home through concrete measures and to do far more than what our country would want to do, to cut emissions out – as we do, for example. does through the rainforest plot that the Right proposed when we negotiated the first climate deal in Stortinget. It is important that we focus on research and development and technology development if we are to succeed in decoupling economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions development. I find it strange when the representative Hansson chooses to minimize the enormous effort made in the industry to reduce emissions, given that there are other greenhouse gases than CO2. Greenhouse gases are equally important for global warming as CO2 is, if not more important. Industry has managed to reduce emissions by 40 pst. Since 1990, while it has doubled production. It is good in both local and global climate accounts, and that is exactly what we need to do in other areas as well, in other sectors. We know that 80 pst. greenhouse gas emissions in the world come from the combustion of coal, oil and gas. And just as the Stone Age did not end the shortage of stone, the oil age will not end with a shortage of oil, but because we succeed in developing better and cheaper alternatives to fossil energy in the transport sector, in industry and in the power sector. We are now on the threshold of a new era, when we see solar power being competitive with gas power plants in Texas, the country of the shale gas. It's a development that could be predicted only a few years ago, and it's a development that makes us face major changes in the years to come. We also see in Europe that the value of traditional energy companies, such as RWE, E.ON and Vattenfall, is halved in just a few years, because new renewable energy has entered the market. If we are to succeed in reducing emissions and realising the low-emission society, we have to make sure that green thoughts produce black numbers. Then a snowball starts rolling, which won't stop. I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear that the public sector can play an important role in creating a market for green products and services, which contributes both to reducing emissions and to creating new jobs in new sectors that we need in the low-carbon society. The fact that the public sector can use the environment in all purchases whether it is when they are building a building or they are buying a service car or ordering a bus or putting a scheduled boat on offer is of enormous importance. The public sector has a procurement budget of 400 billion. kr. It can be used in the service of the environment, and it doesn't have to cost anything, on the contrary. If you play the cards correctly, this can give you black numbers in both the municipal and state funds. Finally, I would also like to say that the representative Rasmus Hansson's party has the main task of reducing emissions by reducing people's purchasing power, i.e. reducing all wage increases in terms of increased leisure time. I believe that there is a misguided policy, and it will not be feasible in practice. Then I prefer that we actually focus on developing new technologies that can help us maintain a high standard of living while reducing emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e390	I agree with the inter-pellant that climate challenges are the greatest challenge of our time. The signals, including: from the latest reports of the climate panel this spring, are quite clear. It is now also true for Norway and for the international community. If we are to be able to reduce temperature increases as a result of greenhouse gas emissions, significant emissions cuts must be made now. At the same time, I may find it a little simple – and I do not agree – when the representative says that Norwegian climate policy has failed. I don't think any of the parties in this room can say that it's done enough – there I fully agree with the representative of Gruever Aukrust – but I think Norway has taken an offensive role in both the issue of domestic and international protection in the climate issue. We have made clear commitments, and although we face major challenges, emissions per capita have also fallen significantly from 2005 to the present. In the climate notification and agreement, the Climate and Energy Fund was established, agreement was reached on an increase in the CO2 tax, and agreement was reached on a commitment to public transport, the ban on the use of fossil oil for heating and continued to benefit from the tax on zero-emission cars, and commitments on more funding for research. I have to say that I think it's a little surprising, for example. that the Right’s Representative made such an effort to attack others on climate issues, because the Stortinget is still waiting for what will be the government’s very offensive climate action. I'll come back to that a little bit. In climate policy, the Central Party emphasises the principle that rich countries must bear the bulk of the responsibility for the climate change that has arisen and that climate policy must be designed to support other important societal considerations. I want to say something about two specific sectors. In an interpelation debate like this, we're going to try to reach over all the parts of a big theme, but I want to say a little bit more about two themes. One is one of the important challenges we face, and it is about expanding and using more renewable energy in Norway, because that is what we have a lot of assumptions for. We have great opportunities to expand and apply more in terms of both water, wind, solar and bioenergy. In turn, it can provide a basis for a reduction in the use of fossil energy sources and help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions not only nationally but also internationally. But then it also has to be organized so that we actually achieve that growth. We now see that the Electric Certificate System can provide a basis both for technological development and for a large degree of increased environmentally friendly production. However, both in the context of climate policy in general and in the context of the development of renewable energy, we now need to focus on action, to find solutions so that we actually reach the agreed targets rather than setting new targets or deadlines or setting new plans. In order to achieve the climate objectives and to take out the potential of renewable energy, it is no longer the case that we need to set up a few more plans, because we have established a green certificate market. The red-green government has given a number of concessions, but there are a lot of investors now sitting and going to make difficult decisions in the future about whether or not to bet on the development of renewable energy. The government that is now sitting must make sure that the decisions are actually taken. There is a great danger that we will see in the future that investors and builders will not dry up to take the necessary investments in renewable energy. It's a potential we have to take out, and there's a great responsibility for the government in the future. I also want to mention forest, because active forest management with hoarding, planting and young forest care also contributes to a significant climate gain. Forests are also an important part of the solution of climate policy. The forest in Norway addresses CO2 equivalent to half of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, and active forest policy is a ground-based, concrete and inexpensive way to contribute to achieving climate targets. It also contributes to employment and value creation, and we have to dare to have the same long-term perspective on climate policy, as we also have on forest policy and forest planting. In this debate, it is very easy that we constantly focus on the big challenge, and it should have all the respect for it. But I also think that one should take the positive steps that are now being taken in different areas. There are many good examples gradually, and it's spreading. It's a development I think will be reinforced in the years to come. For the Center Party, it really doesn't matter whether an electric car is a status symbol or an attempt to avoid bombing around the big cities or what it is. It is very good that we have seen such an explosive development in the use of electric cars as what we have done. It is precisely the kind of development that needs to be reinforced, and also the ring-fence we have to see in the years to come in a number of areas of society, if we are to have any opportunity to meet the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e417	As many have said, climate is our generation's most important challenge. For the Left, it has been the most important matter for many years. It was also an important reason why we wanted a new majority, precisely to strengthen climate policy, to strengthen environmental policy so that we can achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. Then we have to work actively internationally to put in place a global, international agreement, we have to keep working on the conservation of rainforests, maybe expanding this, look at more also on landscapes, mangroves, there are many possibilities. We need to focus on research, develop the new technologies we need, and be a spearhead and example for others, whether it's the construction of plush houses, the development of new, green ships that go on hydrogen or on a hybrid technology, or the development of sea winds – there's a lot of opportunities. I fully agree with the representative Rasmus Hansson that we need to talk about which tons we are going to reduce in the future of emissions. On the left, we've made our own plan, a climate cure for how we're going to work towards 2020 to reduce the 5.8 million tons we're going to have to bring down in order to achieve the climate agreement's objective. This is 5.8 million tonnes that are not professionally based – that this is what is right for Norway, that is what is necessary – but that is what we should do, simply because the Storting has decided that this is what we are going to do towards 2020. Then work must be done systematically in all sectors. Then one has to go into the petroleum sector and look at increasing the CO2 tax. There is a potential of 550 000 tonnes in reductions. One must require the best available technology, and one must address specific decisions, such as requiring electrification of the height of Outsira, which may also prevent an increase of 800000 tonnes. Then we have to go directly into the industry, then we have to demand that we make provision for biocarbon in the ferro-alloy industry, it has a potential of 400,000 tonnes. We need to have a switch to more biofuels, where the potential is also 400,000 tonnes. We can go into energy electrification, where the potential is 150 000 tonnes. We can go into the capture and storage of individual projects. In Norway in Brevik, 800000 tonnes reduction is possible. This requires state investment aid, it requires support from Enova, it requires state requirements for the best available technology, and it requires a strengthening of the eco-innovation scheme. In transport, we must continue to invest in public transport, bicycle and pedestrian routes, and demand that the increase in transport in the major cities be taken in this way. We have to keep expanding the bet on a zero-emission vehicle. The target must be at least 200000 zero-emission vehicles by 2020. We need to use much more biogas and demand sustainability criteria from gas tax exemptions. We need to increase blending of biofuels and actively use taxes and taxes to get a more environmentally friendly transport sector. This is in progress, and it must continue towards 2020. In the construction industry, we must not just settle down on the fact that we have a decision to remove oil firing from households by 2020, we must also facilitate policies that provide for this. Here we can get a reduction of 500,000 tons. If you take away oil firing also in other barley, there is also a potential of 650 000 tonnes. This is what can be done in agriculture, and action in the waste sector, recycling of materials, and we need to address the specific objectives of each sector. Looking at the entire climate cycle of the Left, you can see that we are looking at how we can reduce 8.8 million tonnes by 2020 – not only by pointing out where these emissions are today, but also by addressing the measures needed to reduce the 8,8 million tonnes required by the Environment Directorate. This requires many tough decisions. It requires clear leadership to achieve the 2020 target. We only have six years, and it has to be worked in every part of the public to get it done. It must be worked on every budget round, and every matter we have in Stortinget. Finally, it is possible — and it is difficult, it is demanding, but the result of many of these measures is also beneficial: it is cleaner air, simpler transport systems and a better lifestyle.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e437	I would like to thank Rasmus Hansson for the opportunity to take this round with the climate debate. I thought I'd come into it as, among other things. is about our international climate work. There we had hoped for a separate case for Stortinget, but instead we have got it as part of the revised national budget. The Committee does not yet seem to be able to discuss this, and we do not get a debate of our own, so we will have to take advantage of the opportunity that lies here today – unless the Committee changes its position and we have our own opportunity to do so – we will see. I think it's important to tell you about one thing, and that's that the minister is doing a double communication, which I think it would have been okay for her to clarify. On the one hand, the minister says that we did not exactly get to the covered table after the red-green government on the issue of achieving climate targets, on the other hand she boasts of the efforts that have been made just through the grips that were taken, among other things. In the last eight years to make sure that we are 17-21 million tonnes below what we would otherwise do. I've heard the climate minister boast of what we did, for example. to change car charges, which is the largest contribution to the reduction of climate emissions in recent years. It's a grip that one of the government parties was thundering against at the time we did it. Then I'm the first to say, as a representative of the left-hand climate party, that there's no doubt that a stronger commitment and a stronger pressure is crucial to solving the gigantic climate problems we're facing. We know that this is a policy that goes straight through the Norwegian political debate, both on the issue of charging policy, on whether we should have a road or a path and collective solutions to our big cities, and on the issue of oil extraction in Norway. That's why I want to do the following: I would like to point out that internationally, in my opinion, we need – and here comes a challenge to the climate minister – a clarification of how much of the 750 billion. tonnes of CO2 in the atmosphere for which Norway is intended to claim. Because this is about justice. This is about international solidarity. It is very rarely discussed why we do not reach an international climate agreement. The background for it lies in, among other things, that the willingness of the rich countries to take on the obligations they face is not sufficient for developing countries to see it as a fair agreement. Therefore, Norway needs to clarify as clearly as possible, as soon as possible, how much of the climate budget we are going to claim if we are to take our fair and reasonable part of that job. I have three challenges for the climate minister. The first is a challenge that we're given the opportunity to vote into the Storting this spring. It is good that we have an overview of what needs to be done, such as: The Minister received the report she got the Environment Directorate to produce. But it doesn't last if we don't step out at the same time for how we're going to get to the goal. That is why I believe that we need to have a climate budget, namely the state budget, as the most important governance document we have, which shows a clear direction for how we can achieve the climate agreements we have set ourselves, both in 2020, in 2030 and point the way towards 2050. The second is that we need to have a debate on oil extraction. If the emissions from oil extraction only in Norway had been at the same level today as it was in 1990, we would almost have been aiming at our own climate commitments as they are in the climate agreement. It is the increase in oil extraction that drives emissions upwards. And remember, when we discuss oil extraction in Norway, when we discuss climate action and electrification of Utsira, we are not talking about cutting emissions in the oil sector – we are talking about preventing growth in the oil sector. In other words, we are far from taking the discussion we should have taken, namely, how are we going to reduce the oil extraction? This is to achieve our own climate obligations, but also because it is the greatest climate footprint we put in the world. I remind you that the emissions from exported Norwegian oil and gas are larger than the emissions from all of the African people's CO2 emissions. The third is a call for us to take international initiatives to keep our promises that we will get an international funding of 1 billion. USD from 2020. Norway should lead and show how to achieve that escalation by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e462	I would like to thank the participants in this debate for contributions that at least show that there is still commitment behind Norwegian climate policy. This is promising, even though we have not come very close in this debate to the more concrete commitments and instruments that we are calling for from the Greens/Greens/EFA. We must note that the Council of State has committed itself to cutting Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst and has committed itself to Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions every year from 2013 to 2020 to be 10 million tonnes lower than they are now. And then she's very pleased that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 5 pst. since 1990 – that they have not increased even more! It is a political decision to be satisfied with it, but in relation to the climate change task that Norway has undertaken, it is inadequate. However, I believe that when the achievement is set aside and everyday life is filled with practical thinking, we are moving well in the right direction, and we may be able to move towards a policy that is so binding that we can actually discuss results in sector areas here in the Storting every year and get real cuts. We don't have to cut to make it hurt. We're not going to cut to ruin the Norwegian economy. We're going to cut because we have an international obligation, and we're going to cut off to prevent it becoming even more expensive, even harder and even worse in a while, as we know it will be. It is possible to decide to halt the growth of emissions from passenger and freight traffic, to phase out the rapid sale of fossil cars, to stop emissions from the major Norwegian emission points, to stop or limit the opening of new fields in the oil and gas activities, to electrify more oil fields, and to replace all fossil heating in the construction sector. This is estimated to cut between 20 and 21 million tonnes. It'll cost you. That will require policy. But that's the difference between doing what we promise and not doing what we promise. That means that this will probably not be the last interpellant debate on climate here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e476	I think this debate has been uplifting. Climate policy is an area where many will do much. The working party, which did not have the climate as one of its five programme areas in the Storing Programme, is now also more offensive in climate policy. We have the same objectives through the climate agreement. We're going to do domestic emission reductions in 2020, and we're going to be a low-carbon society in 2050. There's no disagreement about that. The goals have to be achieved, and if we're to achieve the big goals, we have to have what we call a climate change. In some areas, it's enough for us to look at different ways of getting to the goals. The government has faith in using the market in the service of the environment. We believe that technology development and adaptability will contribute to the green shift. But nothing is better than that there is competition between government and opposition to make the best proposals for new climate action. But I want to warn against quick fix solutions, because it's not an easy task we're doing. A transition to a low-carbon society means a transformation of society as a whole. While today's emissions in Norway are about 10 tonnes per capita per year, meeting the two-degree target means an emission level of about 2 tonnes per capita. It's about the same thing that a normal car emits in a year or a little long flight. But I believe that the low-emission society will be a better society with safer jobs at higher carbon prices, and we will have pleasant cities with better local air quality – cities where public transport also works well. After all, it is necessary that we focus on public transport. We see a new change in the fact that young people no longer take the certificate, so they either have to walk, ride or get along with the public transport. I would like to thank the representative Hansson for the initiative for this debate. I'm sure we'll get back to more, because there's a need for us to work together to get Norway moving towards the low-emission society. I also agree that discussing the number of tons makes it more concrete, and that is why this government took the initiative to see how far away from the goal we now were, to make the discussion somewhat more transparent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e487	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e501	It concerns the suspension by the Municipal and Administrative Committee of changes to the Code of Pollution on the supervision of municipalities. During the examination, there is an overall committee which also makes the submissions. Furthermore, there is also an overall committee which recommends the recommendation and decision to the law on amendments to the pollution law on the supervision of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e506	This is in many ways a small and simple matter. It is about how the state itself should be able to follow up on municipal responsibility. We've had that discussion earlier in Stortinget. In the last period, we dealt with our own big message about how to follow up supervision of the municipalities, and I am pleased that the government has followed up the leadership that the Stortinge did then, which was about targeting the supervision more and giving the County a little more authority to assess the supervision to be carried out, based on the knowledge that exists. I am also very pleased that there is a unanimous committee that agrees to this, and that we are not making this a party political issue that is subject to major party political controversy. The supervision of municipalities is necessary because it has been found that not all municipalities have sufficient self-control. There has been a great debate. It's a problem if we can't keep the equivalency between the municipalities, there'll be big differences. So I'm very happy that a unanimous committee is behind this, and that we can get the necessary change in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e517	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e533	For the Workers' Party, diversity is fundamentally positive. With the new immigration into Norway, we have a more complex population with different cultural backgrounds, different traditions and different religious affiliations. The diversity contributes to creativity, exchange of experiences and contacts with other countries and cultures. The vast majority of immigrants coming to Norway are immigrants from Europe. They are involved in building the country in both a literal and a pictorial sense. At the same time, the world is getting smaller, and many people are going far to study or to find with someone you've been happy about, and you want to create a new future with. Mangfold is a good thing, but immigration also confronts us with new challenges for our country and gives us new tasks to solve. Norway is based on small differences in levels of cohesion and trust. Norway is doing better! Each human being is responsible for shaping his own life, but together we form a society that makes this possible. This mutual commitment forms the basis for common well-being and for everyone, irrespective of the background, to have equal opportunities to develop and live a good life. Work is the basis for strong individuals and a well-functioning society. High participation and low unemployment are prerequisites for the sustainability of the welfare society. Work and income provide financial freedom for the individual. One of the main objectives of integration policy must be to ensure that immigrants can quickly enter the labour market and be economically self-sufficient. Introduction programme and introduction support for newly arrived immigrants are both an individual right and a mandatory scheme. Teaching in Norwegian languages and social knowledge is central to the introduction system, together with working practices and other measures that will lead participants to take up work or education when the programme is completed. In the statistical central agency report on the results of the introduction system of 6 May, we read: ‘In 2012, 63 per cent of those who completed the introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants in 2011 were either at work or in education. This is 2 percentage points higher than the corresponding results for those leaving the programme in 2010.’» We need higher ambitions, but we're moving in the right direction. I have registered that the council – I think – visited the council, which has a success of 86 p.m., if I remember correctly. Sunndal municipality also has similar results. There is a primary school examination part of the introduction programme. There are very good examples of municipalities that succeed very well, and those experiences are important to spread to other municipalities. Nav writes in its March 2014 report that the likelihood that immigrant families will reduce low incomes over the first five years is high. So that means you're going to have more to walk with. For some, low income becomes a permanent condition. That is why I think it was right to remove the cash support for two-year-olds. But the government doesn't seem to worry that among children with a migrant background, 46 pst were received. cash support in 2012, against 22 p.m. among the rest of the population. Many have warned against this development and that cash support can be permanent poverty traps for low-income families. For example, there is reason to recall the Brochmann Committee, which was concerned with – among others – the need to shift the instruments from benefits to services to ensure the sustainability of our welfare systems in the future. Strengthening and extending cash support at the expense of kindergartens is contrary to the line of work and hampers integration. Studies of the Statistical Centre show that half of the mothers who reduced their working time as a result of the cash support were not back in full employment when the child was four years old. I am in order for us to have flexible welfare arrangements for the young children's parents, but these arrangements must make it easier to combine family life and working life, and not cut the ties between these two very important components of our lives. Work life provides opportunities. It's also an arena where evolution never stops. Therefore, the Labour Party is committed to having fair and transparent rules for employees and employers. The Norwegian model and tripartite cooperation have ensured a safe and stable working life and low unemployment. Unemployment among immigrants in Norway is lowest in the Nordic countries, according to a comparison from 2012. So the starting point is good, even though the vacancy now seems to rise from 6.8 pst. leave of the immigrant population in February 2013 to 7.3 pst. in February 2014, according to figures presented today. Over the course of several years, the Progress Party, as an opposition party here in Stortinget, has decided to change the rules for a tidy working life. It has often been acknowledged that more use of temporaryity and more power for employers is to be made at the expense of employees. Norwegian working life has many qualities that it is important to take care of. In particular, systematic efforts to combat social dumping, wage pressure and income inequalities are important. If we fail to do this, the welfare society will be under pressure. It is easier for immigrants to get a job in Norway than anywhere else in the world. For most people, the chance to get into work increases with the time you live in Norway. Now it has been remarkably quiet from the government on integration policy, despite the fact that the Progress Party before the government change has marked itself with great dissatisfaction with the state of things. For our future, it is essential that Norway find good solutions for fair distribution, income and well-being, even after the oil age ends. Norway has been listed several times as the world’s best country to live in. Low unemployment over many years and safe welfare systems that guarantee us all access to welfare services are the basis for this. If we're going to stay in one of the world's best countries to live in, we're dependent on getting more in activity and more in work. A good and active integration policy is a key element in this work. Earlier in our State Council Horne said that the immigrants have obligations to support themselves. I fully agree with that. Do your duty, demand your right – it has been the recipe for building the Norwegian welfare community, and for the whole time to include new groups in the wider community. It is also a good recipe for integration policy. We have to make demands on those who come to Norway from other countries, but we also have a duty as politicians to make it easier for immigrants to support themselves and stand on their own feet. From the Labour Party, we will contribute proposals and input to a continued good integration policy, but now we are calling for the visions of the Minister of Inclusion in this area: How will she help children learn language early? How will she facilitate early immigrant children to become part of a social community? How will she help immigrant women learn language and get into work? And how does she intend to ensure that immigrants do not end up in poverty traps or be exploited in the labour market, and that labour immigration does not threaten up-to-date norms in Norwegian working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e574	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate, a debate that I believe not only the government will work hard for, but that the whole of the Stortinget and all political parties should be high on the agenda. There is broad political agreement in Norway on major elements of integration policy. All legally resident persons shall reside in a municipality and start their lives in that municipality. It is a primary objective that immigrants become part of the community, can support themselves and have their resources used. Therefore, we need to facilitate the learning of Norwegian immigrants and participation in the labour market. And as the interpellant was also concerned, everyone has an obligation to contribute and contribute to caring for themselves. I agree that a lot is going well and going the right way. Many immigrants and Norwegian-born immigrants with parents make important efforts in the workplace, rates of education and active participation in many areas of society. But everything is not rosy, there are also several challenges. Refugees and many family immigrants need special measures in a transitional phase to enable them to participate and manage themselves in Norway. We must assume that the individual has the ability – and not least the desire – to be self-sustaining and stand on his own feet. To make demands on someone also means to have respect for them. There are a few main challenges I want to address. A safe place of residence and a good dwelling are fundamental. Most immigrants coming to Norway are migrant workers. They have to find housing without help from the state and municipality, or they can come and live with family members who already have a dwelling. Many municipalities are currently recruiting immigrants to maintain the population of the municipality. Refugees who are legally resident are in a completely different situation. They need help to settle in a municipality. As you know, too many people live in reception and wait for a municipality to settle in. Everyone agrees that the wait is unfortunate for the whole integration. The housing work is therefore a high priority, and many municipalities are now doing a great deal of work. To date, there have been more residents this year than it was at the same time last year. I am busy finding out what we are going to do to enable the municipalities to receive more. I have great respect for the municipalities that say no, but at the same time it is also my job to listen to the challenges that the municipalities have. Increased municipal expenditure and lack of suitable housing are repeaters from municipalities. We have already simplified the integration grant and increased the rates for 2014. In addition, the Husbanken undertaking framework for rental properties has been extended by 220 million. kr through RNB. State and municipality must be able to solve this task jointly. The aim is for municipalities, as today, to settle on a voluntary basis for all residents. This is in line with the new cooperation agreement that the State has with the KS. Furthermore, the municipal minister and I have sent letters to all the municipalities of the country to ask if they can accept refugees. Some small municipalities have for the first time agreed to settle, after they received that letter. The number of residents between January and April this year suggests that what we have started is starting to work. In addition, I have set up a State Secretary's Committee to assess whether further measures are relevant to increase the number of residents. There has been a lot of talk and debate in the last few months about housing, but we also need to have good integration. Municipalities that succeed in integration also succeed in settlement. Reports from the SSB show that there are too many differences between the individual municipalities. Two weeks ago, Hammerfest received the municipality's housing price for having lived in many refugees over several years. Hammerfest sees refugees as a resource that can meet the needs of the community for labour in both the private and public sectors. I think it is important that municipalities see more of the need for labour in the context of the possibility of resettlement. Many municipalities have such a need and meet it with labour immigration. We know that migrant workers are entitled to a job, and they do not need special measures at the beginning, in addition to Norwegian training. Later, if they lose their job, we see that the needs can change. Work is the key to caring for yourself. However, newcomers and many family immigrants need qualification measures to get into the labour market. Norwegian training is the most important thing, but it is often not enough. This applies in particular to women with little or no formal education from their home country. New numbers from the SSB show that 63 pst. by those who concluded the introduction scheme in 2011 were in work or education in 2012. But only 53 pst. women have entered work or training following the introduction programme. We expect these women to participate in the labour market in the same way as others. This is why we attach great importance to further developing the introduction programme for newly arrived refugees and to improving training in Norwegian and social knowledge. It is important that these schemes provide participants with knowledge relevant for getting into work. In the context of basic qualification, municipalities should strengthen cooperation with local business. The cooperation between the Choice hotels and municipalities like Oslo, Kristiansand and Trondheim is a good example of this. The government is developing a comprehensive policy on lifelong learning, which is designed to prevent people from falling away from work and society elsewhere. Measures to speed up the recognition of acquired competence will also be considered in that work. Policy will be presented through a major communication on which several departments cooperate. In the government platform, we say that we should strengthen and target the new opportunity to increase the proportion of minority women participating in the labour market. That is the measure today called Jobsjansen, and home-dwelling women are a priority target group. 60 pst. of the participants who finished in 2013 entered work or education. It's a clear increase from the previous year. So I know that there are probably several critics who are going to say that this is an action that the Progress Party has voted against. But it is quite clear in the platform that this is an offer that we are going to work on, and it is clear that when the reports show such good results, I, as the Council of State, will also be the first to bet on this project. Interpellanten was inside the municipality of Rælingen. The county council has managed to get it done. 86 pst. of those who had completed the introduction programme, became involved in work or education. When small municipalities are often able to do this, we have to be better, together with both the IMDi and the municipalities, to learn from those who are able to succeed. Getting it out to those municipalities that are struggling becomes an important goal for me now. What the municipality has also done is that they have submitted parental guidance courses as compulsory in the introduction programme. Knowing the challenges that very many minority families also face in terms of child protection, it is important that we also focus on parental guidance courses for this group. I have also taken care of the trial of free core time in kindergartens. The experiment has helped to improve Norwegian skills for many children. The municipalities of Oslo, Drammen and Bergen, who are involved in the experiment, have indicated that they want to target the scheme better, for example: by associating participation with the income of parents. It is also mentioned in the RNB, and we are now assessing with the relevant municipalities how this can be done within the current financial framework. The government wants to mobilise non-governmental organisations, so that they contribute much more positively to the participation of immigrants and their children in society. It is important that municipalities and organisations work together on better integration into the community. One example is the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, which helps immigrant women meet other women to practice Norwegian, learn about Norwegian culture and build a network. The government will have contact with different environments and organisations, including those that are not among the most visible in a diverse population. As part of this, a national dialogue conference will be held each year, including, inter alia: local immigrant organisations. The first will now be until the harvest. Many departments have tasks of great importance for integration policy, in particular the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also my department, which has responsibility for coordination and coordination. We need to ensure that efforts and actions in different societal areas in terms of training provision, labour market measures and welfare systems are well connected, ensure better integration and avoid social exclusion. In the government's political platform, there are ambitions for an offensive policy of integration, which includes both public and individual offers. I expect broad political cooperation in this area, for the benefit of immigrants and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e627	Firstly, I would like to thank you for the reply from the Council of State. I would like to commend the Council of State for having changed her mind in some areas and for pursuing a red-green policy, in which she initially disagreed. I mean – from the heart – that's very good. It is about measures such as Job support and measures such as free core time in kindergarten. We in the Workers' Party believe that the next step in the area effort is free core time in the SFO, and I hope that the Council of State will join us and discuss it with us in the future, because we believe that this is a very accurate measure. I am also very pleased with what the Council of State says about playing on teams with non-governmental organisations. I also think that they have an important role to play in ensuring good inclusion. Then I am also pleased that the Council of State attaches such great importance to work, school, language and equality as a foundation of integration policy. I also feel that there is something about which there is a cross-political agreement. But what I'm concerned about at the same time is that you don't just have to say it, you actually have to do it too, and put the words into action. The Council of State is responsible for a field in which many representatives of her own party have very strong opinions. So late as in a debate in the New Year's New Year's Day in NRK Friday, May 2, the Vice-President of the Progress Party Per Sandberg asserted that the government of Stoltenberg had spent several hundred billion dollars on a failed immigration and integration policy. He also stated that cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party on asylum and integration policy could drive Norway into the ditch. The government’s political platform states that integration policy must aim to ensure that immigrants feel belonging to and related to Norwegian society. Then my question is: does the Council share the situation description with its party colleague Per Sandberg, or does she have ambitions that immigration and diversity remain a resource for Norway, and that immigrants should feel belonging and connected, as they write in their platform? It is difficult to see whether the choice of rhetoric of many states councillors is consistent with what is in the government platform. I would like the Council of State to clarify her and the government's view of these questions. So the council spent a lot of time on what's about women and their integration, but the big grip that's happened is going in the opposite direction. It's about introducing cash support. While it is said that immigrant women should get out of work, they are paid to stay at home. Not least their children are being kept away from kindergarten and SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e647	I very much hope that this important debate will not end up as a debate on cash support. Norwegian women with a minority background should have the same freedom of choice as Norwegian women to use the welfare schemes we have in Norway to get good family solutions. If the Workers' Party was so concerned that the cash support prevents integration, they had eight years to remove it, but they have spent eight years increasing it to NOK 5000. Then I was challenged on some things here. I would like to remind you that the situation today is that the capture of those who have been accommodated, and the capture of the asylum flow to Norway, has not been consistent with what the municipalities can do in terms of housing. That is why this government has taken more action, both in the justice sector and in my area, which is integration. I am responsible for those who have been legally resident, and it is quite clear in the Progress Party's programme that they should be settled in a municipality, the municipalities should be paid more of the costs, they should be involved and contribute, and they must receive training and work to support themselves. Making demands is also good integration. When the representative here referred to the Vice President of my party, I would like to refer to former Minister of Inclusion Audun Lysbakken, who immediately after Easter in a debate when we discussed settlement and that there are over 5,000 in reception waiting for a municipality to live in, said that the integration policy has been miserable in recent years. I don't know if the representative Helga Pedersen agrees, but I actually agree. We should have taken up the challenge that we have that there are so many people waiting for a municipality to live in, much earlier than what was done. That's why it's an important prerequisite for us to be able to settle them, because it's in the municipalities they're going to start their lives -- that's where they're going to take education, that's where they're going to get work. Then we all have to work together, both the municipalities, the business community and not least the Nav. That government has also been able to participate in its platform – and in the cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party – is to raise the age limit to 24 years. We have also raised the entertainment contribution – two important steps that can prevent forced marriage. A report — Transnational growth [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e662	I understand that the Council of State does not like to talk about cash support, because it is a hopelessly poor policy for integration – the field for which the Council of State is responsible – so I will follow the wishes of the Council of State and not talk so much about cash support. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that freedom requires tolerance for inequalities and diversity, because the Workers' Party sees diversity as a strength, both for creativity, for the exchange of experiences and in contact with the cultures of other countries. It is a strength for us as individuals and for business, and it is a resource for economic value creation and for cultural development. If we succeed in integration, we are stronger in the age of globalisation, because we have a greater diversity. Everyone shall meet with expectations and be given the opportunity to contribute to society and participate in the community. We must succeed in integrating. It is a responsibility that both the minority and the majority have to share. Responsibility must be based on an agreement that all have equal obligations and all have equal rights. And for most, the entrance to Norwegian society is to be able to participate in education and in the labour market — that is what is the entry key for most people. A new Fafo report presented this week, on immigration and labour market integration, shows that the lack of integration of immigrants into the labour market can have a significant impact on future well-being. It is entirely in line with what the Brochmann Committee discussed in its investigation. But one important finding in the analysis is that immigration itself is not the big challenge – it is inequality, not immigration, that challenges the Norwegian labour market model. The report shows that one of the pillars of the Nordic model, namely relatively small differences in population and between inhabitants, is not just an objective; it is a central tool for achieving good integration. Growing differences in the Nordic countries can threaten both the political and economic sustainability of the Nordic model, a model of well-developed, universal well-being and a well-organised working life. Increased poverty leads to less money for welfare budgets, but the political upturn in universal tax-funded welfare may sink if the middle class appears to be irrelevant and too expensive for the welfare state. And the report finds little or no support for ethnic diversity as such being a threat to the labour market model. It is a message that the Council of State should respond to, for the message is in stark contrast to the rhetoric and policy of her own party. This report also mentions the climate for debate, and the climate for debate has a bearing on how the political sustainability of the welfare model actually develops. It is quite fine to have a sharp debate on political differences and differences, but it should be conducted on a factual basis rather than as a moralising debate. I think the Council of State is making itself very high and dark in its response to the interpellant here when she characterises integration policy in recent years as miserable, and I think what is presented as future measures is quite weak. It's a review of the challenges we have, as we share, it's a review of overall objectives, which we agree on, but when it comes to concrete measures – what was described before the election campaign as all the good and fantastic fine solutions that were to come – it's very little concrete. It is a continuation of the current policy. You go back in your own opinions, which you argued about when you were in opposition, but which you now characterize as miserable, but still go on with it. But new measures to solve all the challenges that were criticised by the previous government are very thin. The Fafo report I referred to also shows that the fight against social dumping is important, because the fight against social dumping is a fight against different opportunities and a fight against increasing differences. Immigration leads to more pressure on wages and working conditions, but it also contributes to reducing the pressure on the economy at macro level. When unemployment increases in the countries around us, the labour force is not accustomed to decent working conditions in terms of working time and wages. Many people are in a situation where they are happy only to get work, even if according to Norwegian conditions the pay is unacceptably low, or the working conditions — and the hours required — are not in line with Norwegian legislation. It has therefore been important to take action against social dumping. We delivered several packages of measures against this last period. That work must continue. The report presented by Fafo shows that efforts against social dumping and for competences through education and language are important steps to prevent the risk of increased inequalities in immigration, which in turn weakens the Norwegian model. Because we now know that equality is not just a goal; it is also an instrument. Equality produces equality, while inequality produces more inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e685	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. In parentheses, I would say that some of the problems that the Labour Party's representatives point to, actually is also a summary of what they themselves did not get for eight years in a majority government. But now leave it. One of the most important arenas for both learning and integration is the classroom and its own community. It is alarming when children are sent out of the country against their will, and there will be a major integration challenge when they return. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State was quickly on the road with good proposals for action when the report on transnational growth was presented earlier this year. Prevention is crucial. Kindergarten, school, health centre and child protection must all follow-up, explain the right to initial training and care and the consequences it has for children to fall out of Norwegian school or leave the labour market on return. But we also have to ask ourselves why parents feel that the solutions to the problems they experience in Norway are in their own home country. It's a paradox in itself. Many parents experience a distance to Norwegian society because they themselves are not integrated. It can be a combination of living time, work, language skills and the general knowledge of the society in which they live. In situations that parents see as challenging, they can feel that the space for action lies primarily beyond the borders of the country. Therefore, it is important to build a good trust between immigrant parents and child protection, schools and kindergartens. Norwegian children are entitled to school, and we learn that parents take their children out of school even if they have been denied their applications. There are several children sent out against their will. So there is a clear need for us to be able by law to prevent children from being sent out of the country against their will. In particular, it should be considered to amend the jurisdictional provisions of the Child Protection Act. This change will be most important in cases where decisions can be taken to take care of children who are no longer living in the country but who live in Norway. The child keeps the place of residence even if it has left the country. Dealing with cases involving children who are left behind abroad is challenging, and many different laws will work. In matters relating to children living or staying abroad, the legislation of other countries will also have to be taken into account, but there is no doubt that we need to look at the laws. The vast majority of parents want the best for their children, and of course parents with immigrant background do. The report shows that there are, in particular, four reasons why parents consider staying abroad. It's family, it's school, it's religion/culture, and that's what you call language and discipline. I think you can assume that the real reason is a combination of all of these. Thus, the word ‘cultural rehabilitation’ can be used correctly in this context. It has to be mentioned that the report also indicates that some children experience the stay as positive, but experience and many years of study show that the long-term consequences of falling out of school, the community, their own family, siblings and friends for long periods are largely not positive for most people. I believe that knowledge of one's own roots and culture is positive – it is, in fact, absolutely crucial for the integration that we are going through in our new home country. However, it should be done at home and in the community of the child’s experience as a safe and predictable framework. Living alone — and in several cases involuntarily alone — in the home country of their parents can and will have the opposite effect. I look forward to further cooperation with the Council of State in this field, and I conclude with what I started with – that I believe that the integration of children through school and a good community is crucial for the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e704	Although the interpellant has very many good points – I am sure she is also concerned with good integration – there is no agreement between rhetoric and the desire for better integration and the policy of the interpellant party in government in eight years. The reality is that you have to see a relationship between the number you accept and the number you have real capacity to integrate, and thus make sure that people have both the opportunity and the right to succeed in the Norwegian community. For us in the Progress Party, the main objective is also in this field that everyone who comes to Norway should have a real chance of success in Norwegian society, of being a positive contribution to society and not a burden. Then it's very strange that the immigration population doubled under the red-green government and now equals 15 pst. by the population. Eight out of ten new residents are immigrants. It's costing more than 210 billion. kr since 2005, and commitments have increased by 550 billion. kr since 2005. ‘Equalities grow equality, while inequalities grow more inequality’, said the representative of the Workers’ Party. With the policies that have been pursued, there is no doubt that there have been major inequalities, so I am pleased that we have an offensive government that has many solutions to these challenges. It is not right that the representatives of the Labour Party claim that there is no new policy. I will mention three areas that are important for better integration. Firstly, we have changed the entire reception structure with integration reception and return centres. In this way, those who have stayed in Norway and are waiting to be settled in Norwegian municipalities will be integrated from day one. The inclusion and integration work starts from day one after legal residence in Norway. It's a significant change from what was under the previous government. Secondly, a number of measures have been taken through the agreement we have with our partners, which will limit the family establishment or reunification, which is a source of each generation starting almost on scratch. The relay marriages have contributed to each generation of immigrants almost starting at scratch, starting at zero. We notice that very well here in the country's capital, where very many of the children born and raised in Norway cannot speak Norwegian when they start school. At least it does not contribute to integration. The third and most important thing is that we now have a government and a large number that sees the relationship between the number you receive and the number you have real capacity to provide help. The sum of this and many other measures contained in this agreement will contribute to better integration, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e719	I would first of all like to pay tribute to Helga Pedersen and the Workers' Party, who have taken up this interpellation on an important matter. The Christian People's Party believes that it is an overall objective of integration policy that immigrants who come here feel respected and as part of the community, with the duties and rights that we have here in Norway. It's important that anyone who wants to live here ends up with some basic common values. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that everyone – whether native or immigrant – respects human rights and shares the view on the importance of democracy, solidarity, equality and tolerance. No one shall be subjected to racism or discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, culture or religion. Integration policy must ensure that all immigrants and their children learn to master Norwegian, which is the key to Norwegian society. It is necessary to facilitate the widest possible participation of all first- and second-generation Nordics in all social arenas – be it in work, education, culture, politics or voluntary work. I've seen for myself what it means to participate in a school corps or a sports team, and how the family has thus entered urban and rural life. Integration policy must focus on employment, not just housing, although it is now a bottleneck. The Christian People’s Party will therefore propose that the Council of State establish a system called ‘introduction’. Enterprises and non-governmental organisations can work with this scheme for immigrants for up to two years, including, for example: a salary subsidy from the State. At the same time, the enterprise or organisation undertakes to assist with language training in its work. This will be an extension of the introduction programme and the system we have today with practice at work. It is also possible to find good schemes that provide a reduced employer's fee under given conditions. We must get to a system that activates and does not pass on. Norwegian skills are important for getting a job, but the job is also important for learning Norwegian. It is important that newly arrived immigrants receive an offer of work or work training as soon as possible. It is also important that social support schemes are designed in a way that makes it economically possible for newcomers to get a job as quickly as possible. Today, parts of the social welfare system may be such that in some cases it does not pay to work, and then it becomes passive and very wrong. People with immigrant backgrounds often do not get jobs for which they are really qualified. They often have to work again, gradually and usually via low-paid work. It may be due to something as simple as translation and evaluation and any recognition of education and competence. I myself know several cases where it has been applied for and submitted papers, but it takes months and years to evaluate and validate real competence and education. The way into working life must not be hampered by heavy bureaucracy or by legislation that does not see the individual's situation. In some cases it may have looked very obvious to us outside, and we're just waiting for an answer that could have solved the situation for some families. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a searchlight on and a review of the entire foreign administration. I'm glad we get to participate in that work. We want to make constructive proposals to ensure that immigration policy and integration are seen in a context that is even more strongly and that priorities are given in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e738	When it comes to this debate – and I thank the interpellant, because I think it's an interesting topic – I think we should be able to look a little ahead and not all the time backwards. Because, as Eirik Sivertsen said here, diversity and tolerance are very much based on the future. Then kindergartens and schools are the most important arenas we have. In an increasingly multicultural society, kindergartens and schools are crucial to create a common anchor for students. I am also of the opinion that we need to look at the entire cash support system in the future. I don't think that's what's exactly certain for the future. I think we have to be willing to say that it was maybe solved for a few years ago, but it's not the solution of the future to continue. In order to achieve a good policy of inclusion, it is important to focus on the possibility of free core time in kindergartens for three- to five-year-olds from low-income families, including those with a multicultural background. I think that just reinforced efforts in kindergartens and clear demands for Norwegian staff skills will be the dynamic we need to move forward. Studies have just shown that children from low-resource families benefit greatly from going to kindergarten. Children who go to kindergarten get better language development. This applies in particular to children with low-educated mothers, minority language children and children from other low-income families. Understanding Norwegian and Norwegian society is a very important part in the future. This will also be an important measure to improve the schooling of children with a linguistic minority background and to increase the professional activity of women with such a background. In particular, more teachers and further training as such should be invested. Several have addressed what has also been the key issue of the Left over a long period of time, the strengthening of the school health service. We are clear that we need more health sisters for, among other things. to follow up on this. Strengthening cooperation between school and home, creating good communication arenas, is an important piece to move on. The transfer of pupils from receiving classes to ordinary classes must not take place until the pupils are well-managed in Norwegian enough to follow the ordinary course — otherwise the transfer works quickly against their purpose. From the left's point of view, we will be a driver for this, for we believe that this is a key in this work. At the same time, it is a key that we are able to achieve that when someone comes to the country, it is to be organised so that a person gets a job as soon as possible. It also requires the need for Norwegian as a language — it will be important in the future. It is a good integration policy. So there are several people who have just been called upon through good cooperation to create security. It's also a key forward, as well as the Storting's ability to look forward and not point backwards at all times. That's not how we move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e750	Then I'll start where Skelstad ended up saying that the future is diverse and is going to be multicultural. That's at least the hope I have, because the option to that is that we build new walls between us and between countries, and it doesn't want SV. SV wants freedom for all people, also for those who want to move to improve their lives. It must be legitimate and not be regarded as something scary and dangerous. I am pleased that the Council of State is continuing the good measures that we got in place when we were in government. I am glad that she has put away the resistance to Job, which is one of the most important measures. I am also pleased that you now have free core time in the kindergartens, and it is very important that we manage to expand that system also for smaller children. Language is important, bilingualism is positive. It is a great opportunity for a country like Norway to get many people who are functionally bilingual, in many languages. But you learn language very early, that's when the automatic language training comes. That's why this cash support debate comes up every time, because it's not future. These are just the periods when children learn language most automatically. Therefore, you should be in kindergarten when you are small and do not have Norwegian as your mother tongue. That's an independent, very good argument for that. Of course, staying on reception for a long time is very harmful to integration. I agree with the Council of State that it's important to do something about this, but it's a little weird that the first thing to do is cut these subsidies. One got some help from Stortinget to improve it, but now the jam will come again. I have looked at the statistics that show that the number of people coming to Norway is increasing — in contrast to the Progress Party going up here and saying — and the number of people in reception increased throughout 2013 and now also in 2014. This is about the situation elsewhere in the world, and then it's about what's going on in the municipalities. The good work the State Council of the Advance Party is now inviting, her own party traps are sitting around in the municipalities and saying no thanks and blocking, and so they did when SV was in government. So this is a problem, and I hardly think that what the government is doing now, cutting the integration grant also in revision, is a good contribution to this – on the contrary. You don't send a bill like that to the people you've invited on duty – it's worse. One of the important things is also how we talk about each other. There are very strong trends towards generalisation, almost to the demonstration of refugees and asylum seekers in Norway. They are referred to unilaterally as a problem and added to very many bad attitudes. That's why I want to make Stortinget and the Council aware of a campaign that NOAS has now launched, which is called becoming wiser. It assumes that when you see the Internet of asylum seekers and refugees on a general basis, you can write ‘#blicklocheren’, and then it goes to NOAS, which responds with concrete knowledge and facts in the matter. I think that's very important, and I think it's very important that the Bigholding, responsible state councils and their apparatus are involved in this, because these attitudes that are spreading about someone coming here that's basically very scary and dangerous, are one of the most difficult things to get into good integration. We have to look at each other with respect and let people get to know each other. What we know about integration is that the more immigrants people know, the less afraid they are, and then they're doing better. So I'll encourage everyone. I would also like to draw attention to the job that is being done in many non-governmental organisations, for example. The MiRA Centre, which has equal work for immigrant women, where women can help each other to understand the codes, to learn Norwegian, to understand how child protection works, to understand how the Norwegian system works, because it's not that easy. We take it as a matter of course, but I don't think it's completely obvious to everyone how all things work. I would also encourage the government to support such measures. Equal opportunities for migrant women will be important for integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e765	Let me start my speech by stating that diversity is Norway's strength. We have celebrated the Constitution for many weeks, but one of the dark shadows that lie above the Constitution is that the mariners feared the unknown and feared the outside. Fortunately, we have taken many steps as a society, and today Norway has a great appeal to people from all over the world. It's a huge force. It is also confirmed by the world's leading demograph, Richard Florida, who says that the regions of the world that are able to attract the creative class and diversity are the regions that will succeed in the struggle for jobs and value creation in the future. You also get a lot more for each of the immigrants compared to just moving on your own population internally between the regions. You get culture, you get traditions, you get other ways of seeing things. You get all the more diversity, which becomes a driving force in itself, and which attracts new parts of the creative class, because they want to work in a diverse society. Let me be a little local politician and give a brilliant example of what this is all about. It's from Ytterøy, my hometown, an island with 400 inhabitants. There was a chicken slaughterhouse a few years ago, but the founders of the island joined forces and started again. They have specialized in the halal-lacking of chicken and are quite unique in the Norwegian market, and have seen such a large army of people who want to buy their products. In addition, there is a large number of Lithuanians working at this company. This has led to a huge population growth on this island – about. 70–80 new people have moved to an island that used to have 400. It's awesome. This does not just lead to a successful corner stone business, thanks to labour immigration and thanks to a more diverse consumption pattern. But this also means that the kindergarten, which may have had to be closed in the past, has now been cleaned up and built up – now it's queue. This has led to the school, which had previously been threatened by closure, also standing by the turn to be refurbished. And this has resulted in people who used to live alone having a new partner, and even having children with people who have moved from Lithuania. This is a success story of dimensions that shows some of what this means to us as a society. Then, of course, it's not that everything is rosy. There are some challenges to the diverse society. That's because in many ways we didn't have a clear plan to invest in people who came here in the past. Many of those who came in the 1970s and 1980s were seen as guest workers, and the plan was that they should return after a certain period of time. There was poor investment in these people, and many of them are struggling with the aftermath of both poor integration and poor association with the labour market, because they are simply in the way they worked. It's not unique either. We saw the same thing, for example. when Aker Verdal started up in his time, when many, many from all over the country moved into the Verdal community and there was no plan to integrate them into the Verdal community. Many social problems, drug problems and suicide problems have been associated with this, because there has been no plan to integrate and absorb new citizens into society. What's the effect on the immigrant population? Well, that's the same thing that works for the Norwegian population. It's investing in every human being. It is to bet in language – then kindergarten is absolutely essential, both for the child and for the child’s mother. It's to bet on education, so each one can acquire knowledge of society and stand on their own. It is to bet on activity, and some have pointed out the problems that too few continue to work after the intro programme — yes, there is also too little follow-up of each one after the end of the intro programme, so many of the women who have gone there go back to home. It's betting on participation. Yet, both organisational and cultural life and sport are too diverse. There's a big problem with connecting to more of us. And then, of course, work is absolutely essential. The cash support beats all of this. That's why the government's commitment to integration is being zeroed out, because they're paying for cash support, which keeps the mothers and the children at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e782	Norway accommodates people with a background from over 200 countries and nationalities. You can choose to have different perspectives. First of all, you can think of it as someone in this room does, that it means that there are people in Norwegian cities and they don't speak Norwegian perfectly. But can also see it this way: in Norway, over 200 languages are spoken perfectly, and in a globalised world, there is a strength for business, school, diplomacy and cultural understanding. The assumption, of course, is that we are willing to invest in integration and that we are willing to invest in common. We should never be naive, but never one-tracked and one-fold in the integration debate. We're not going to take easy language training. Mastering Norwegian is essential for success as a citizen of society. It is important that the school and kindergarten are strengthened as the common arena. That's why it's important to have a more comprehensive school day, where everyone meets with early effort, where teachers are qualified, but also motivated, where there are enough teachers, and where everyone learns to master the basic skills. Although we have a good school in Norway, which is not always reflected in the media reality, it is still a bit to go before we have the school we want. Today, when we talk about integration, it is worth highlighting that Norway is a country with high trust among people. It's not given that we're going to have it until Dovre falls. Trust is not a fixed size. It's influenced by the choices we make. How do you build trust and tolerance in an increasingly diverse society? Perhaps the most important answer is that where many different cultures meet, our common meeting places must be open and inclusive. The common school is the most important arena we have, across religion, culture and social background. It is the common meeting place where all children and young people meet, where they sit next to each other in the classroom, play with each other in the school yard, where they get shared experiences and a minimum common multiple of knowledge and attitudes together. Therefore, it is worth pointing out that if you follow the recipe of the Right Party and the Advance Party and privatise the Norwegian school, you also weaken the main common meeting place we have in Norway. That's a bad suggestion. We can see to Sweden. The lesson from Sweden is ready. After more than 20 years of increasing numbers of private schools, differences have increased, both between schools and between students. The segment government has increased. And at the same time, the results have gone down. There is probably a lot you can and should do more of in Norwegian school. But if the goal is knowledge, community and good integration, Swedish prescription is wrong medicine. It's the wrong way to go, even if it's where the Right Party and the Advance Party will take us. The common school is our best tool to create tolerance and equalize differences It should we call in the name of integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e801	I want to start by thanking you for a very good and reflective debate. It was an invitation to talk first and foremost about the future, and I am pleased that many of those who have spoken in this debate have contributed to it. The Christian People's Party and the Left have been very clear on the basis of values, and I think the Right has contributed very wise views on what is about transnational growth and absence from school. Then we have previously heard that the councils and representatives of the Progress Party have been responsible for the legacy of the pastors. We can say what it is: the policy that has been pursued in recent years has not solved all the problems in Norwegian society, nor in the area of integration, but it has produced many good results on which it can and must be built. When, for example: can be demonstrated that immigrant women in Norway have a higher participation rate than Italian women in Italy, it should be recalled that the starting point for Norway is basically quite good. The debate here has revealed that we agree very much, but there are also some very clear policy lines, and this is primarily about cash support. I am very pleased with Left's very clear view on that matter. The Norwegian welfare society is built on the basis of the workline and universal welfare schemes. It's been a good recipe for everyone. Cash support is a break on the line of work, while leading to fewer and more expensive kindergartens and increasing the threshold for choosing them. And that's especially negative for women with immigrant backgrounds. It's a fact that while a little over 20 pst. by Norwegian children receiving cash support, the proportion is higher than twice that of children with a migrant background. So when we look at the country background, it's like, among children who have parents with country backgrounds from Pakistan, 76 are receiving pst. cash support. The corresponding figure for Iraq is 74 pst., Turkey 73 pst. and Somalia 71 pst. At the same time, while the employment of immigrants is high in Norway, the alarmingly low level of women with just land backgrounds from Pakistan, Iraq, Turkey and Somalia is seen. There must be a clear and clear signal that cash support – to pay even more immigrant women to be at home – is not the way forward. It is argued that it gives freedom, but at the same time it brings many women and children into a poverty trap that is difficult to escape. In the end, I am glad that Solvency Horne mentioned the housing challenges and would like to ask what her recipe is to settle the 5,600 who are currently in reception. Otherwise, thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e814	I too would like to thank you for a good debate. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is approx. eight months ago the Stoltenberg government presented its budget, which was then not adopted, and there was not one word there to cut the cash support that has been in place by many today is a hopeless policy. The red-greens have run for eight years with cash support. For me and the government, it is important that we have a cash support, in order to provide all families, including those with a minority background, flexibility and freedom of choice in a short phase when they have young children. The representative, Andersen, was in on a few things here, among others. increasing the waiting time for residence. Yes, it increases for those who are now sitting and waiting to be settled, among others. because more have occurred. At the same time, UDI has now moved ahead in its proceedings, and there are also others who are allowed to stay. So I also said in my post that I am aware of, and have great respect for, that there are several municipalities that say no. And then one should listen to the challenges these municipalities have. But on the basis of the grip this government took on sending letters to all municipalities, small and large, thus has Austevoll municipality, which is a Progress Party municipality, for the first time said yes to receiving ten refugees. So the government does not cut down on integration measures in the revised national budget. There is a notification of a change of measures for lone minor asylum seekers in the municipal proposition, to which we come back. No Hate Speech is strengthened by SEK 600 000, which is an important campaign for discrimination in this field as well. We have some challenges. There are too many people in reception who are going to a municipality. There are too many differences between municipalities, and there is too much women with a minority background that we can't get into work. There will be important areas of activity for this government. It's important that we manage to get out the success stories that Arild Grande had in mind. Those municipalities that succeed in integrating, these success stories, we also need to get out to the other municipalities. Finally, this government has integration policies high on the agenda, not only in my department, but in several. We're increasing the integration grant, we're increasing the Husbank's loan framework, and the housing-social strategy plan presented by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is going to be an important area of activity for municipalities to put in place more housing. We continue to cooperate with the work force and Nav, and that's important. We're also going to look at language tests, and we're going to give the municipalities that have free core time in kindergartens, the opportunity to set this up much more specifically. So there are several measures this government is now actively working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e831	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e845	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e854	The hospital structure in Norway existed over 100 years ago. Since then, medical science has been evolving. Conversions and structural changes are therefore quite natural and necessary to improve patient provision. The majority decided in 2002 that the State should take over the ownership of hospitals. Hospitals were subject to professional corporate governance in five enterprise regions. It soon turned out that there were unfortunate borderlines and structural challenges between the health region of the South and the health region of the East, especially at hospitals in the capital. Hospitalically, the capital was really divided into two, the so-called Berlin Wall. The merger of these two regional enterprises, as decided by the Stortingen, was intended to lead to better resource use, efficiency and coordination in the capital. Quality in the provision of health was the objective. The merger and conversion that followed in its wake was demanding and very challenging for the hospitals. The conversion process has been dealt with in Stortinget, and many critical questions have been raised in the case. The national audit reports and revisions have revealed that the owner did not take sufficient account of known challenges in such a complex and large process. This was the case with conditions that spread hospitals’ locations, different ICT solutions, insufficient financial frameworks and that some shifts depended on others being carried out. The opposition in Stortingen was critical of how the process itself was carried out. In particular, care was taken to ensure patient safety and sufficient capacity in patient provision. Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie has taken care of this. A number of projects are now under way to evaluate the migration process and to draw up knowledge. I will especially draw out three great works: Health South-East has started to monitor capacity needs in the capital area in both the short and long term. It shall cover both somatic, mental health and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. We look forward to the SINTEF report in June. Oslo University Hospital has also initiated the project ‘Renewing Hospital Organization’, which aims to draw lessons from the merger. The project has received funding from the Research Council and has a reference group from heavy university environments in both Denmark and Sweden. I would also like to mention ‘Evaluation of the conversion process in Health South-East. Knowledge base for further development towards 2020». It is a three-year project with many subprojects. The aim is to strengthen the knowledge base of conversion processes. This is good. During the hearing on the case, two bodies were present, the Norwegian Medical Association and the Managing Director of Oslo University Hospital. The medical association was dedicated to solving the capacity problems. The request for local management and reorganization of the hospital was on the agenda, as was the dimensioning of the hospital. The Executive Director of the OUS was concerned about drawing lessons from the process and has therefore launched the said comprehensive evaluation project which will also look at the organisation and future challenges of the hospital. So there are a number of evaluations and conversion processes under way. We now believe that a new expert assessment of the capital process and a new plan for further conversion is not appropriate. We believe that this is now being done in the work in progress. I would like to highlight in particular the project at the OYS where to bring user representatives and employees, and you need to have experience conferences along the way, so that you get a continuous learning of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e880	Migration is complicated and demanding, especially in the health sector, because it is about people, about employees, management, change, professional development and power. In this context, it is also primarily about patients and patient treatment. There is no doubt that in the matter we are discussing – this merger process – there have been, were and are still major challenges. At the same time, there was a strong consensus that the purpose and aim of bringing together Health South and Health South-East was that it should also lead to better resource use and coordination of hospitals in the capital. This should lead to better quality and efficiency of treatment. Much has been learned. A lot of water has been down the river since then. I think we should all acknowledge that that process has been demanding, difficult, and that many have been subjected to too much – not least the employees, who have experienced some quite powerful conversion. We also know – as the rapporteur pointed out – that this process has been subject to extensive, robust treatment, both in the Grand Duchy on a number of occasions and through the sharp eyes of the National Audit Office. The conversion of the Oslo hospitals is also evaluated and monitored daily with the eyes of the argus from many teams, from experts, from research environments and from employees. I would like to stress that it is crucial for the further development of hospital services in the capital area that the Department is following up progress and appropriations for the ongoing projects and that they are largely implemented in line with the plans adopted. We were also aware that the OUS would carry out a review of the conversion process. It was also the case-rapporteur. I think that's good, and we look forward to the OUS report on the location and development of the entire hospital, which comes later this year. There is also reason to remind you of a day when we are dealing with this proposal, that there is a very big difference between the government parties as to what they write in the comments and how they express themselves on the matter, and how they behaved in the opposition. In the opposition, the requirement was completely unambiguous. An external review was sought, an independent review, because the evaluations that had been launched were simply not something to be prided on. We noticed, for example: that the current Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie was one of the most active in this campaign, where he, among other things, in VG in 2012 asked for it to be initiated ‘an independent review of the hospital merger and whether people have lost their lives as a result of poor planning and rooting’. Höie further explained that: ‘We need to address issues of non-preparation for the merger, for which the government is responsible, has actually caused damage and loss of life.’ Last November, two months after the election, the Minister of Health turned around. He then wrote on the ministry's websites: ‘After the follow-up meetings’ — as Höie had then had — ‘Høie has concluded that there is no need for an examination of Oslo University Hospital.’ He justified this, among other things: that SINTEF had been entrusted with the task of carrying out follow-up research, and with the reports of the National Audit Office, which several have pointed out. I am very happy that you can turn around, and that you say that this was no dangerous way forward now. It has been examined, reviewed and evaluated so many times that I think it would be wrong – it is a very correct assessment that we are not now embarking on a new major work in this sector in this area. But I think it may be bad that you first have to win the election before you come to the point. Just this SINTEF follow-up research became, among other things, The Stortinget informed – and then the depositor Bent Höie – by 27 November 2012, where the then government council Gahr Støre wrote about precisely these themes for Stortinget. Once again, I'm not going to do any more of it now than to say that I'm happy that you're now adding this to it, that we can now look forward to taking with us the lessons from the processes and evaluations that have gone. But I repeat: I still think it is strange that you have to spend so much effort and time in opposition to something that you should also know created unnecessary unrest in a sector that needed to look ahead. You should look at the reports that were posted on the table, learn from them, and move forward, before you reach the same conclusion after the elections as the government at that time – mainly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e921	I am one of those who has previously arranged for an external examination of the process around the hospitals in and around our capital. The change has been demanding for both employees, patients and relatives. We've all agreed on that. But there also ends the consensus. It began with an increasing number of patients and relatives reporting chaos, corridor beds, root and forgetfulness. This was repeated with health ministers from the Workers' Party. The answer I received every single time was that everything was under control, and that they had confidence that management followed the situation closely. Gradually, the stories increased and ended up with employees as well, confirming the stories of patients and relatives. The concerns increased as we went along, because we had experienced in the past that the employees had been very loyal to their employer. But now they started talking. Again, the matter was raised with the Minister of Health at the time, and the answer was that the Minister of Health had full confidence that the management had full control, and that there was no cause for concern. Document 8:24 S for 2011-2012 proposed measures to ensure quality and patient safety during the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party then voted against, on the grounds that everything was under control, and that the situation was very satisfied. It is therefore quite amazing that two out of three parties who have run this whole process, and who have been satisfied with it all the way, now suddenly will know what went wrong in the world. In comments on the case, even SV and the Center Party writes: ‘The hospitals have repeatedly written letters and concerns to their leaders about the situation. The result is corridor Asians, long waiting times and deadline breaks.» They also write that: ‘an external review will provide the basis for the preparation of a further migration plan at the OYS, so that the migration actually leads to improvements’. A stronger testimony to a lack of self-management should be sought for a long time. To the Workers' Party, it is tempting to say, "Who needs enemies with such friends?" During the work on this matter I have been made aware that there is indeed a lot of evidence on the conversion process, in addition to the fact that there are new ones. In addition, it is a strength that almost everyone now recognizes that the process was not good enough, and that this is clearly defined through several examinations. In order to make things better, we depend entirely on recognizing faults and shortcomings. By extracting all the information we're currently sitting on, we can learn a lot for future conversion processes, even though we'll hardly experience one that's identical to this one we're debating here. When you repeatedly encountered a sense of reality that split at most, I found that my only chance to get a correct answer was to get some outsiders to look at the matter and tell them without a trace. I no longer need to dig any more in the past. The National Audit Office has established that the owner did not take sufficient account of known challenges in such a large conversion process. If the ground wall is bad, the building is bad too. We know that. Worked on «Evaluation of the migration process in Health South-East». Knowledge base for further development towards 2020’ and the work of SINTEF on the long-term monitoring of capacity up to 2030-2040, I feel confident that we will resolve the capacity problems in the capital area both in the medium and long term – which was also debated in this room in an inter-pelling debate a little earlier. In addition, Health South-East has set up a steering group to advise on improvements to the service provision in the short term. A report on capacity needs in the future will be ready by June. At the top of all this, a research project will be launched with external assistance from abroad that will look at the migration process in view of the further development of the organisation. The most important thing we can do now is to sort out some of the bad rumors that the hospitals concerned have had over the last few years. It is important for the employees, who each day extends far for their patients, and it is important for the patients who sometimes feel that they put their lives in the hands of the Norwegian health care system. Fortunately, most people experience optimal treatment. The aim is for everyone to experience a safe and professional health system of high quality, credibility and security. It's time to look forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e972	When the Christian People's Party together with the Left asks for an external expert assessment – when we already have the National Audit Office's reports, the Health Inspectorate's reports, their own reports from Health South-East, OYS and Ahus, and not least the Control Committee – it is because this has, and will have, consequences and will present us with challenges in the future regarding the process that is not completed in the capital, and for the new health plan that comes in the future. In order to achieve the new plan and complete the plan in the capital, we need trust in the health care system, and we need trust in those who have carried out the processes. The County Doctor in Oslo has reported on several occasions in his surveillance reports a lack of patient safety. It has not been long since decisions were made that patients should be moved from Aarhus to the Diakon home. Patients have been removed from the operating list on the same day as they had an operation agreement. The capacity for intensive care was too poor. Trust is broken in many areas, and we need to rebuild it. Then we need someone who is unhilded – from the outside – to look at this. The whole of the Committee believes that the transitions in the capital process have been challenging and that the challenges have been many. We all agree on the objectives: better use of resources, pooling professional environments and coordinating hospitals in the capital. We've merged many of the hospitals. At the same time, we were to have logistics between the hospitals we worked together – both in the case of houses, and not least in the case of ICT. There were systems that didn't communicate with each other. Old constructions and premises were not suitable for the patient courses and treatment methods that are relevant today. The National Audit Office could conclude that there are minor changes in quality. It's no more efficiency than it has been. It means that we have something to learn, and there are big shifts left in this process — at high risk. As has been said before, the Minister has continued to work – as the previous Minister of Health did – to find out and continue the process. But the Left and Christian People's Party nevertheless believe that it is important that someone looks at this from the outside, someone who has experience in hospital processes and in hospital construction. When we mean this, it's because we see that we have a piece left. We see that this does not have consequences just for Oslo, our capital. Oslo has a local and regional responsibility in its health business, and not least at national level. When things happen in the capital, with the tasks that matter to national activities, it matters to what happens nationally. An example is when the prematurity department, with the smallest of the smallest, cannot accept because they do not have intensive capacity. It is about other health regions not being able to send their children here – those who need it the most. It also has consequences for the hospitals that are in Health South-East. When we see the significance of the capital process and the effects it has had, and we're going to succeed in making major changes that are needed in Health-Norway, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe it's useful to look a little bit in the rear mirror to drive safely forward. We think it's important and useful to learn from what's done wrong. Everyone here agrees that things have been done wrong, but I wonder why it is that we don't let anyone unhindered look at us in the cards. Is there something we have to hide – if we can't let others look at us in the cards and join us and point the way forward. It deserves patients, it deserves those who work there, and I think it's best to use resources and professional environments in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e985	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e988	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I address a proposal for an external assessment of the capital process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e993	Then the representative, Ms. Olaug V. Bollestad, took up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e996	I want to start by showing that this is not the first time the Stortinget has to do with this. Conversions in the capital area included: a thorough examination by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee following a report by the National Audit Office. The report found that there was alarming findings in patient treatment and OUS operations. In the thorough examination of the control committee, it was very clear how important it was for urban leadership, a concrete plan for the process, and not least that we must learn from the capital process before starting other mergers. In particular, I would like to present that part of the National Audit Office's report that the OUS must be reorganized with steady-leaning at all levels to ensure that all participants have a leader present, counteracted long-term decision-making lines between top management and patient leadership levels and contribute to better management across clinics. This was also part of what was agreed on in the Control Committee. It was an important signal and put up for a thorough work on it. I regret that health politicians from several of the other parties now do not follow the comments of their own parties during the examination of the cases in the control committee. At the same time as we now have this debate in the Chamber, there are also other important issues in the Committee. One of these matters is the proposal of the Centre Party to stop substantial changes in Norwegian hospitals pending a national health and hospital plan. Our background to the proposal is that hospitals and health are an area that requires political governance. We put forward this proposal because local health care should not only be up to health professionals and managed. Unfortunately, in the committee the proposal did not have a number. In our opinion, this is a discharge from the politicians, and it is a reduction in the political governance of hospitals. This was the result of the Workers' Party joining forces with the government and forming multiples. In this case, we would like to point out that the project Campus Oslo, which is currently proceeding and is about major fusion between hospitals in Oslo, should also be part of the hospital plan and the political treatment. Unfortunately, we are not supported here either. Once again, when the government party does not want to interfere, and just shift responsibility to the company and the hospital board, it is an example that we have a government that does not want to take responsibility for Norwegian hospitals. I would like to stress that this does not mean that the Centre Party will take away from some planning and decision-making powers, but that means that such billions of projects must be anchored and be part of the political plans discussed in the Stortinget. Our greatest concern in this matter, however, is the lack of confidence in those who are admitted to Oslo University Hospital. There were clear messages the committee received in the hearing. On direct questions to them about trust in an internal evaluation, the answer was that that trust was not present. I find it hard to see that an internal evaluation will produce good results when they have already failed to believe it. An external assessment will ensure that they are added to the inventory, and will help to ensure that there is no doubt about the result. The question of trust or lack of trust is, unfortunately, a problem that persists in hospitals a day. It's about mergers that have created dissatisfaction, and it's about merger processes where they don't feel cared for or listen to. Now it is time for us to listen to those who know where the shoe is printing, and build confidence in Sjukehus-Noreg. A good start will be to get a thorough, neutral and external assessment of the process that has been in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1011	‘Job in one of Europe’s largest hospitals!’ — with great print and exclamation marks — is what Oslo University Hospital uses to attract health professionals. There are more than 20,000 employees. For some it can be attractive. For others, there may be some questions. Are you all gathered in one place? No, they operate on more than 40 postal addresses. Is it a local leader to go to all of the more than 40 postal addresses, or at the many hundreds of departments? How did one of Europe's smallest countries get one of Europe's largest hospitals? Is it possible to take out economies of scale with so many locations and with more than 100,000 m2 of sheltered building mass, or have we suffered a lot of economies of scale? It is possible that the employees do not ask all these questions, but for us as politicians, it is at least absolutely necessary that we ask ourselves those questions when we go into the work of establishing a national health and hospital plan. The challenges of Oslo University Hospital have not been solved, and especially in the short and medium term, we have a major challenge to put in place a capacity to deal with the large population growth we have in the region, as well as increasing life expectancy and ever-new treatment methods that make us have a special challenge here, along with all the building and postal services from which this hospital operates. To the process: It was a political decision mainly to collect the hospitals in Oslo. Therefore, it is of particular importance now that we have a political learning process, and that we do not just leave to the health companies and the individual hospitals to learn. We are not asking for an investigation, but we have a wish for an external expert assessment that can give us political input – about the process, of course, but also good advice on what to do in the next few years. Because here, in fact, action will be required, and investment will be one of the things that need to be done. We politicians have to contribute to that process. Then it's not necessarily miles of reports and papers that's the best help we can get. We have to learn from those who have been through similar processes. Denmark is among those who have been through it now. They have used an expert panel composed of representatives from both Norway, Sweden and Denmark who have faced similar challenges. The capacity challenge in Oslo is increasing – which I have been faced with – and therefore it is important that we meet that challenge. One example is that the waiting time for neck prolapse has increased from four months in 2005 to twelve months in 2013, and it has grown particularly in the last year. It says something about the acute challenges we're facing. So we're going to create a national hospital plan, and the experience from the Oslo University Hospital process is very important to take forward when we're designing the new hospital map as part of the national hospital plan. Then conversions are one of the things we have to take seriously, and we hear what employees say that it is not a leader to go to. There are people who have never met their closest superior leader, and that's also one of the signals we're going to take with us: these are so complex organisations that we're going to be careful about bringing together big organizations even bigger. Besides in District Norway, this is also going to have a distance dimension, which, after all, we don't have in Oslo to the same degree. The review element here is not the important thing. It is – I was saying – the daily competence we are going to have when we are going to take the many important decisions both in the short and long term, which is the important thing here. We need to spend more time listening to and catching up on what's happening in our neighboring countries, to provide us with the basis for making good decisions and getting Oslo University Hospitals on the right course. I've been into it before: maybe the way to go is also to separate the Rikshospital as a separate hospital that has many national functions, and that will do something about the organization, which the employees are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1034	We have a health care system that's under constant migration, and that's what it has to be. There are social needs that govern it. There are professional changes, technological changes, changes in people's needs. It makes it especially important that as elected representatives, we learn from the migration processes we have, both those that go well, and those that don't go well. I believe there are many good arguments for carrying out an external expert assessment as requested by the proposers. We need to learn from the mistakes that have been made, perhaps also from what has been good in the capital process, and not least we need to ask ourselves what is a fundamental question in the development of specialist health services in Norway: do we need ever larger units, as the tune of time has been for a while now? So what do you need to do to make it work? Is that a trick? Maybe we should think completely differently. When I talk to and meet people who work at the OUS, patients and others who have experience with the hospital in recent years, there are some descriptions that go back. One thing is a structure that's become so big that it's harder to lead. Among other things, we do. results have been obtained on several occasions in the form of notices from leaders who feel that the command line is too long, that they are too poor to know each other, and that it is too difficult to obtain decisions and messages both up and down in the decision hierarchy. Another challenge is professional environments. We create larger units because it's a goal with larger, better and more stable disciplines. But the question is, can it sometimes get too big? A doctor described to me one day at the OUS, where you meet new faces every day that you haven't worked with before. There is no good development and does not lead to better professional environments. Another concern I have related to the capital process is connected to the way forward. In the autumn of 2015, a hospital plan has been announced. We know so far little about what that plan will mean, but some signals from the Minister of Health indicate that it can be a much less concrete plan than many of us have hoped for. But also into that work, it had to make sense to get something other than internal assessments of the Oslo process. We want an external expert assessment, not to hang someone out, but to learn and to give us more information, to gain more experience in working with the Norwegian hospital structure. It also gives me the impression that the Medical Association and the trustees at the OYS are asking for it, saying that they do not have sufficient confidence in the processes that have been initiated, or implemented, to gather experience. I think it's a bit eye-catching to see the distance between the Right and the Advance Party saying today, and what they said when they were in opposition. In 2012, it was well known that projects such as: the follow-up research for which SINTEF has been responsible. Nevertheless, the Right Party and the Advance Party required external assessments. Today, with reference to what you knew at the time, you say that you don't need the same thing. So I noticed that the representative of Kjønaas Kjos made a visit to SV and the Central Party, and then I would say, first of all, the previous government parties have never denied that there have been problems at OYS. Second, it's like sometimes things that have been different in a government coalition come to light when you're no longer in that government. The fact that sometimes you don't get it exactly the way you want to, is something that maybe shouldn't surprise the Advance Party and the Right so much – it's an exercise that the parties now go through every day – and that's why I think the harelass with the previous government coalition is a little bad. It is far more remarkable that the Right Party and the Advance Party are now in complete disagreement with themselves in the version that existed a few months ago! And it's worth remembering that both parties have meant this and now have a majority to do something about it. It is clear that the implementation of government parties is particularly strong in terms of change of mind, and we note that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1053	A number of measures are in progress and are being launched to look at the organisation and conversion of Oslo University Hospitals. The aim is to learn in view of the further work. Oslo University Hospital will carry out a review of the organisation from August 2014 to June 2015, with the aim of establishing a plan for further organisational development. Particular attention shall be paid to patient careers, the collection of duplicated functions and disciplines, user involvement, local management and responsibility and control voltages and related challenges. The review shall identify what works well and where adjustments are needed, in order to follow up on the strategy for 2013-2018. Oslo University Hospital has applied for funding through the Research Council's health and care programme to carry out a research project on the process around the background and establishment of the hospital. Although the application was rejected in the first place, Oslo University Hospital informed that they will continue to apply for support for the project, but that the start-up may be somewhat delayed compared to what was planned. In addition, SINTEF is also engaged in a comprehensive follow-up evaluation of the whole migration process in Health South-East. These projects, together with the two reviews of the National Audit Office, the inspections and the company's own reviews, mean that I see no reason why an additional expert assessment should be carried out externally. I would also like to refer to the ongoing work on reviewing the capacity of the whole of Health South-East, which the Regional Health Companies Board will be considering now in June. Oslo University Hospital is also working on a matter, for the board, on investment needs in the short and long term and assessing different solutions for the future development of the Oslo Hospital. The hospital has had conversations with the Municipality of Oslo, the University of Oslo, the road authorities, and I am also kept continuously informed about the assessments made. Oslo University Hospital is investing for about 1 billion today. kr annually, and I understand that it is desirable to have a plan for the future development of buildings, so that the annual investment funds are used in a forward-looking way. The new director of Akershu University Hospital has been involved in the issues that have been raised by Health South-East, and I will also have my own meeting with Health South-East and Akershu University Hospital on the status of the challenges this summer. Conversions in the metropolitan area will continue for many years to come, both due to population growth and due to the need for significant structural investment in Oslo University Hospital. It is important that the different roles of Oslo University Hospital, both for the region and for national functions, but not least for the population of Oslo, are properly maintained and put in place, and that good cooperation and division of tasks are facilitated with other hospitals as well. I will not present my own plan for further conversion in the capital process for Stortinget. National health and hospital plans will provide leadership that the hospitals in the capital area will also need to take into account in their further work. This does not mean, however, that the planned work currently under way should stop until the Storting has dealt with its national health and hospital plan. On the contrary, this will be an important basis for work. The further conversion of the Oslo University Hospital must be planned within what is Health South-East and the hospital's framework and mission, and it is the management and managing director's responsibility. The operation of the Oslo University Hospital is a demanding responsibility, and we must respect that decisions about the operation must be investigated and anchored not least among the hospital's own employees and in its own organisation. But I can assure you that I am following the hospitals in the capital area closely, also as regards their ability to deliver good quality patient care, with good patient safety and sufficient capacity. There are still challenges in the metropolitan area, but good work is in progress to improve the response of hospitals in the metropolitan area to these challenges in the future. The proposal under consideration today contains a proposal for an external assessment of what has happened. There have been a number of external assessments of what has happened at Oslo University Hospital. The most serious thing about the proposal is that it also suggests moving the development of Oslo University Hospital out of Oslo University Hospital and into an external expert committee. It is very serious and it breaks down, among other things. employees the possibility to participate in the development of Oslo University Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1079	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1082	I agree with almost everything the Minister for Health says, but I only have a brief comment and a question. Although it is always much easier to assess things in the rear-view mirror – that is, when you have much more information about a demanding matter – I have no problem saying that there was much that could have been done better in the years that this conversion has taken place. I have no problem taking self-criticism, but what I'm asking is whether the Minister of Health can now take self-criticism in the way he – in opposition – expressed himself in this matter, and perhaps helped to make this transformation more difficult than it might otherwise have been, by the way he put it? The reason why I ask that is, is that Bent Höie, as Minister of Health, is saying quite differently now than he did just a short time before the election, and I understand that the proposers think it is a bit strange that he puts himself in the way he does. When I can take self-criticism in this way, can the Minister of Health take self-criticism on how he acted as an opposition politician?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1096	I have a great sense of both self-criticism and the ability to have different views after gaining access to new knowledge. But I also think there is reason to remember that when the previous Minister of Health in Stortinget, for example. pointed out how many times the government had briefed the Stortinge on the development of Oslo University Hospital, and summed it up, these briefings to the Stortinge were essentially the Stortinge's own initiative. The previous government involved Stortinget very little in terms of information about this process, and as the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos had to say: there were largely explanations that everything was in its most beautiful order. I think it's not in its best order; it's still big challenges. With regard to the external audit position, it was a position taken on the basis of what had been reported at that time. Now there's a completely different work going on to get knowledge of this than what was the case in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1103	I record that the minister says that we play a high game by moving regulations out of Oslo University Hospital, and that it was not true when he himself was an opposition politician. I have a question for the minister: Trust takes a long time to build up and an incredibly short time to tear down. How does the Minister see that he should be able to trust that the Oslo University Hospital process is rooted in patients, those who work there, and not least the other health companies around the country, who will have services from Oslo University Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1112	It is happening through the work now being done on how Oslo University Hospital will develop in the future, and that it is very well anchored first and foremost in Oslo University Hospital’s own organisation, and that the issues relating to other hospitals are issues that are also discussed in Health South-East, thus involving the most affected hospitals, which are around Oslo, but also by working well with a national health and hospital plan, which will be leading this. There we have, among other things: put down three expert selections to record this. There will be input from employees’ organisations, from patients and independent professionals from all over Norway, with different backgrounds, including: persons with experience in the selection work in Denmark, to which the representative Kjenseth referred. That plan must also be anchored here in Stortinget, thereby ensuring a good democratic anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1117	I notice that in meeting the self-criticism of the former government parties, the health minister does not want to accept the invitation to criticize himself. Then I would like to be allowed to ask him a question, based on something that was in the Medisin today on 25 November 2013 and that is reflected in a comment from the Workers' Party and SV in the setting. In order to justify its changed perception, the Minister of Health indicated that: ‘several reports that have taken account of the OUS process, including Sintef follow-up research, the National Audit Office’s report and the work currently under way in Health South-East.’ These were processes that were well known before Bent Höie became Minister of Health, and which he should therefore have known when he came up with his bona fide demands for examination. Did they come up with the requirements that Bent Höie had not followed well enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1129	It is important to stress that there are two reports from the National Audit Office. One report, which was about government leadership, only scratched the surface in terms of the situation at Oslo University Hospital. After that, several people demanded an external examination, including the undersigned. Then we have received a national audit report after that, which goes much deeper into the situation — including the situation of patients, and which in a completely different way involves an external study of the situation at Oslo University Hospital. In addition, there is now a clear review of the situation at Oslo University Hospital, which involves both an evaluation and a work related to the future development of the hospital. The project mandate for it has recently been discussed in the management of Oslo University Hospital, and it is now being consulted in the clinics. This work will also include people with experience from Aarhus University Hospital and Karolinska University Hospital, who will contribute to comparative analyses related to the situation they have been through.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1138	I said in my post that we have received one of Europe's largest hospitals in Norway, but we may have one of Europe's smallest research budgets linked to hospital transitions and hospital expansion. The Council of State referred to the research project that got into the wake of this proposal, and I think it was a constructive development at least in the process. But there's a lot of uncertainty about whether it's actually being funded, and the question is: Is the Council of State comfortable with how we organise research related to the hospital sector in Norway, and are health businesses sufficient to intervene with the research sector to create the good research projects related to not only medical development, but also what we are talking about here: the framework conditions for the hospital sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1148	I believe, of course, that we need more knowledge and more research also on the organisation and development of the health sector. It is also important to say that although that research project was initially rejected by the Research Council, there was a strong competition with many other good research projects. Oslo University Hospital will continue to work to finance that research project, either through the Research Council or through the internal research funds available to health regions, which will be distributed in September. It is important to say that it is not the only of the new, started projects. Perhaps the most important thing, and as I was in the answer to the previous line, is the review, the assessment of today's organisational model, which is going on completely independent of that research project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1155	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1160	The conversion process for hospitals in the capital was poorly planned. The National Audit Office is clear that the known challenges of such a major change were not adequately taken into account. Like the rest of Health-Norway, these health companies live with different ICT solutions that don't talk to each other, and poor journal systems. The issue has been the subject of debate in Stortinget on several occasions, and today's government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, have rightly been critical of the process. In the course of the process, the Right promoted on several occasions proposals that the Stoltenberg government had to come to Stortinget with a national health and hospital plan. We also proposed a commitment to ICT in the health sector. In addition, we asked for an internal investigation. Everything was tuned down by the red-greens. The right-wing Party government aims to create patients’ healthcare, where ICT is a crucial tool that will make everyday life easier for both employees and patients. ICT is a high priority for the government, and the Minister of Health announced a full review of the ICT organisation in the sector in his hospital speech. The review is already in progress. There's been years and days of innumerable investigations. According to a letter from the Ministry, measures are in place both in the short and medium term. It is reported that the measures taken at Aarhus are starting to produce positive results and operational improvements, and that the hospital will also implement its own plans for further action in the coming months. Health South-East will present a new report in June, dealing with the capacity of Health South-East, which will also address the capacity challenges in the capital area in the longer term. In line with government policy, Health South-East, in dialogue with health companies and private hospitals, has clarified available capacity and the possibility of capacity expansion. This is very positive. At the same time, a national health and hospital plan from the government will provide leadership that Oslo University Hospital must take into account in the further conversion work. After many years of unrest and many investigations, the Right and Advance Party see no reason for an external expert assessment or for a separate plan for the further conversion. In this case, such an investigation had to come at an earlier point in time. The government is focusing on a health and hospital plan, ICT, a patient record law and a health record law, and all of these are important tools for health businesses, both in the capital and in the rest of the country, to function well in the future. The most important thing now is to achieve maximum tranquillity around the extensive work done to improve the situation of health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1181	I think it's been a good debate, and it's because it's learning that's in focus. Many good questions have been asked, not least about the future of the capital process. In particular, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have developed the learning aspect, and not least they are concerned with looking forward. I think maybe what characterizes the debate is, how can we get to this project well in the future? There is a difference between being in opposition and being in position. We don't need research to figure that out, but it may have been, as has been pointed out here, need an even closer information and dialogue from the former government and big business. If you had, something might have been avoided. There has been talk of an unhealthy and neutral assessment of this process, but I would say that our national audit and all our supervision should be neutral. There's been two hearings and 93 supervision, so at least I think the openness around the OYS business would be good. There have also been questions about the future and especially about size. Those are difficult questions. One of the reasons for the merger was just this Berlin Wall. There was competition between strong trade unions. There was competition for research funds in the same fields. It was competition for employees, wages were driven in the weather, and there was also competition for patients. This was the rationale for the aggregation. Now the work is starting to work out how to do this good, big, incredibly important hospital for Norway. Decisions on operations must be taken by their own organisation. Political governance is called for, but there is a balance between political governance and detailed management, which I perceive perhaps someone wants. Then at least it's going to be incredibly far to approach, as someone wants. Finally, trust. Trust is created by results and participation in the organisation. I now trust that the processes that have been initiated will take the employees and user organisations with me. It will create trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1194	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1208	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1215	This issue is about putting in place a full-time culture in the health sector. It will provide a qualitative improvement in the provision of health care to patients, increase patient safety and, hopefully, lead to fewer patients being treated. Several full-time employees also have an impact on skills development, and full-time employees have a closer link with the workplace, thus strengthening the working environment and cooperation at work. Leaders are given better opportunities to follow up. Full-time culture is also important for gender equality as most part-time workers are women. But full-time culture is not least important for recruiting sufficient staff with the right skills for the health sector in the coming years. It is clear that when faced with a professional choice — the profession to which they are going to engage — young people depend entirely on knowing that they are wanted and that they have opportunities other than to pursue part-time or temporary jobs. And when we know what the challenges are in the housing market and in terms of the opportunities for getting a loan, not having a full-time job will have consequences. Hospitals therefore need to provide staff with good facilities and ensure that work organisation takes a starting point in permanent, full-time jobs. From 2011, the Health Minister has made concrete demands in the Health Business Mission document to reduce the proportion of time spent by 20 p.p., increase the number of job vacancies for part-time employees and increase the number of full-time jobs. All healthcare companies have achieved positive results, but there is still a high proportion working part-time. It varies from 24 pst. in Health south-east to 31 pst. in Health Mid-Norway. All the organisations that took part in our hearings and sent us recordings have clarified that it was that it was put on the agenda in the letter of assignment that caused them to make this change. There are differing views in the Committee on whether, in order to achieve the objective, it should continue to be included in the mission document. The working party is of the clear opinion that it was only when full-time and part-time were included as a subject in the mission document that health companies really did something about the matter, but it is still a good thing again. It has shown that the challenges in the municipal health sector may be even greater than in the specialist health service, and we believe that if we manage to do a good job in hospitals, it will have positive ring-effects. The working party therefore believes that the work for a more full-time job should continue to be prioritised by health businesses by making further demands in the letter of assignment. The Labour Party also believes that we have learned that it is not enough just to work at the individual level. We need to raise our eyes and to a greater extent also work for a clearer employer policy in order to bring about a change in full-time. There must be clear demands and expectations that full-time is normal and that work should be organised on the basis of the full-time position. What we miss is that the employer in the hospital sector uses the right of management to protect the full-time employees to a much greater extent, and that those who choose part-time have to adapt and not choose working hours at the expense of full-time employees. That doesn't mean that toddlers' parents, or those who are struggling with health, or someone, as part of a senior policy, won't be able to adapt their working hours, but we need a little more radical action if we're going to make the change that is wanted. We see that those who work in occupations other than nurses and health professionals – such as doctors – are able to organise the tour in a good way based on the entire position. But we also see that KS and Specter have proposed to amend the Working Environment Act. The working party believes that this is not right. A person must not be naive as to the strength relationship between the employee and the employer in each job. We have to be very aware of why we have the Working Environment Act. It is in order to protect the health of employees, so that they can have a reasonable leisure time and not least a family life. The Labour Party will never – never – change the Work Environment Act to weaken this intention, but we are open to modernising and renew it if there are other things that can be organised. Finally, I would like to highlight the majority of the Committee, which calls for the proposal for a representative to be annexed to the Minutes, while the minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, are promoting two proposals, which I am referring to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1234	The representative Ruth Mari Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1237	Despite cross-political will and efforts for a stronger full-time culture in hospitals over many years, there are still about 35 pst. part-time employees of regional health establishments. Why don't we succeed more in creating a full-time culture when everyone wants it? The employer’s association Specter carried out a survey in 2012 which showed that only a little over 6 pst. Of those who work part-time in hospitals, want a full job, and that only barely 14 pst. part-time employees wanted to increase their share of the job but not to the full-time job. Then maybe we should start asking ourselves the question: why is so much of the part-time volunteer? The right and the government are we concerned about instruments that work. My question about the minority's main instrument today, namely that the general rule is to publish permanent jobs as a whole, will work when the employees themselves do not want full-time jobs? Can we reduce the part-time share if we don't dig deeper into why so much of the part-time is voluntary? Is this about life-stage needs, such as working part-time in the early childhood? Or is it about having a tour that creates real health challenges for employees? As is well known, the absence of health workers is much higher than that of other groups. The reasons for absenteeism are many and, of course, are not just the result of a profession with heavy responsibilities and responsibilities. Should we not also consider whether innovation around the tour can be topical medicine to overcome sick leave and the part-time share in the health sector? Most people in the health sector work traditional turns. In hospitals, there are three-part tours of most bed places – from evening to day, and often from night shifts to day shifts with only one rest day in between. It is simply impossible to sleep well and be rested with such guards. Could it be that the tour arrangements do not take enough account of the biological challenges, and would it be a solution to look at alternative tournaments, which provide more room for rest between sessions? Long-term watchmen can be a solution to the part-time problem, especially linked to weekends. But long-term guards seem to meet the resistance of many. Often it is justified that they may be harmful and that the likelihood of errors increases. Experience from the intensive department of Oslo University Hospital does not support these conclusions. They have had 12-hour guards on weekends for several years, and as far as I know, they have no experience of making more mistakes on these guards. I find it difficult to understand the resistance to long-term guards, especially because they can contribute to tours that give more rest between the guards, which in turn may contribute to reducing sick leave and the opportunities to work in a larger proportion of the jobs. Of course, negotiations on working time are a matter for the social partners. Many find good local solutions to this, but they experience that they need to search again and again to use them. I think you'd be able to try out more good solutions locally, even in hospitals, if the system were more flexible and if local trust leaders, management and employees were to be able to find solutions that work. The sites that have tried this, such as: in the care and care of people in Bergen, results suggest that sick leave has fallen, more people have full-time jobs and the quality of care is increasing. We fully agree that the entire position is the goal. Our government is clearly committed to reducing the use of involuntary part-time and temporary work in the public sector and to establishing a full-time culture in the labour market. Therefore, in the business meetings of regional health enterprises, particular attention is paid to work related to this issue. So the government has given hospitals the task of reducing part-time time and working for a full-time culture. That's what the government is following up on, and we'll follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1256	The importance of work cannot be underestimated. Feeling useful because you master something, making money for your own living and contributing to society's value creation are quality experiences for most people. In its platform, the Government has stated that permanent employment is the general rule of the Working Environment Act and will work to reduce the use of involuntary part-time and temporary work in the public sector as well as to establish a full-time culture in the labour market. However, far from most people want full-time jobs, especially in health services. The Norwegian Earthquake Association’s 2010 work life survey showed that 55 pst. part-time work. The reasons were small children, the desire for more leisure time, high workload and the desire for fewer inconvenient guards for health reasons. Many want part-time jobs and fill in with extra shifts, whether it's to ask for pay with a few dollars or to help the employer make the watch plan go up. Reference may also be made to the fact that the Employers’ Association Specter, at a hearing of the Health and Care Committee on 18 March of this year, presented a 2012 survey showing that only 6.4 pst. part-time hospital staff want a full-time job. Therefore, efforts to increase the full-time culture need to focus on more than simply imposing requirements on health businesses to reduce time use. There are several reasons for creating a full-time culture in the health sector, including: to improve the quality of healthcare for patients and to be able to deal with fewer health workers. It will also be in line with the government's desire to create the patient's health care system, where the patient fully has the necessary attention from health professionals, and is met with the respect he or she deserves. It is then important that skills and continuity become important measures to help develop the quality of healthcare even more. Of course, the government is following developments in this area closely. To achieve the goal of full time in the health sector, it appears necessary that the strategic work of health enterprises focuses more on the systems, structure and organisation of work and not just on those who want to work more. Today, we see that both the high part-time share and high sick leave in the health sector lead to large losses of labour resources. At a time when health professionals are in need, this is a challenge we need to take seriously. Aristotle shall once have said that the aim of work is to win leisure time. Well, he though it, although of course leisure time is a good all working people know to appreciate, whether you are in a whole, half or quarter position. Freedom of choice has always been a guide and a leading star for the Progress Party – so also in this case. It's hard to force someone into full-time work if they don't want to, and when the offer of the part-time job they want is actually there. Nevertheless, we are going to make sure that the starting point for health care work is full-time, so that everyone who wants to do so will have this opportunity. It's also about freedom of choice. It is not least about the freedom to choose something completely different if that is what the employee himself wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1273	Providing or facilitating a full-time culture is important for employees, but perhaps most important for users and patients. Greater position – being more at work – may lead to a better perception of the patient’s changes. It gives knowledge of the patient's development. You can easily follow a plan, and you can keep up with the daily professional development that is in a department, and you can follow the updates that take place in your profession. Another side I think it's important to include, is that the more you're with the patient, in a larger position, the better relations you build to the network around the patient, which is an important part of getting the patient on his legs. It builds a network that leads to total care. It strengthens a working environment and it creates a good professional environment. A full-time culture facilitates the participation of more people in a professional seminar. It is not possible to stick under the chair that most women are in a reduced position. Promoting full-time culture is also about a gender perspective. The health undertaking has achieved one objective – to reduce the part-time culture by 20 pst. We wish it was bigger, but from the Christian People's Party we think this is on average good. However, there are some health professionals who work more than others to get full-time jobs. They may be more than someone dependent on having a quantity in their fingers to perform good quality services. One of these groups is the midwives. They have difficulty getting all the jobs. The question can be asked: Could it have been wise to do as the Earth Mothers' Association says – to look at the possibility of more full-time jobs, as a result of increased cooperation between specialist health services and municipalities, to improve the service of the patient – both pregnant and giving birth? The medical association says that the average age for many doctors getting full-time jobs is 42 years. It's a challenge for us – if we look at the big picture – if you're 42 years old before you get a permanent position, when we're going to put skills plans and assess the need for different further education. Facilitating a full-time culture believes the Christian People's Party is important. Having said that, I would also like to say that many hospitals and institutions are publishing part-time jobs to get weekends and nights to go up. It's a challenge, because we need as good care and as good professionalism on weekends and on nights as we do on daytime. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that we, together with the social organisations and the negotiating partners, must look at the working time arrangements and the rotational arrangements – dry to look at them from the patient's point of view, from the point of view of employment agreements and the employee's position. And, not least, what does one get to make bigger jobs, and how can we align this with the weekends? For my part, I was the head of an emergency department at the end of the 1990s and early 2000s. We had something there that we called the wish tour – with 120 employees – where one with the employees got into a tour scheme that ensured that we got good coverage weekends and 24 hours a day. I think the future is drying to look at it too. At the same time, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to say in the remarks that there must nevertheless be opportunities for having part-time jobs in periods of life, and that one should not – because one chooses it in periods of time – be looked down on in the working life or put outside in the context of raising skills, because there are other tasks in life that require it – either because one has family or young people to take care of, because one has older ones in the family wants to take care of, or there may be health reasons that do. I think we should also have room for that, but that the main culture must be full-time in our hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1284	This matter raises many important, fundamental issues related to time use. The proposal deals only with the time spent in hospitals. It is an important topic, but the debate on time use is equally important in the rest of the health sector, in other public activities and in the general working life. The aim of the centre lot is to reduce, on a general basis, the use of involuntary part-time. It means that we want all time options to be the goal of everyone who wants them to be. In hospitals, we see a very high level of part-time use today. The signal is clear that today there are many who work in the specialist services in part-time settings, which actually want to work in the full-time position. That is why we would like to welcome the proposal from the representatives. We support the proposal that full-time settings should be the main rule in Norwegian hospitals, and we believe that the degree of full-time use can be greatly increased before going beyond the voluntary part-time. At the same time, we would stress that full-time use does not have to go so far as to harm those who, for various reasons, want to work in a reduced position. Our goal is to make the most possible work, and that the working life should have a place for everyone. The labour force is our most important resource. Therefore, the taskbar is a device for keeping up the high level of well-being we have in Norway. A varied work life is the key to giving you all the ability to find a workspace that suits you and therefore is also the key to high employment. Occupational participation should also be the objective of people who are ill or who are disabled. This means that we need to have a work life with sufficient flexibility and openness, so that everyone with the ability to work gets in. Sometimes this is also about allowing part-time work. There is a lot of evidence that in the future we may face challenges in recruiting young people for healthcare, and efforts are required to ensure that we have sufficient coverage in the health and care sector. This means that we can't afford to hide the resources we already have, or the people who consider choosing a career in healthcare. There is also a reason to work because it is adequate with full-time settings that can make it more attractive to choose the profession and ensure a good use of resources. At the same time, we're not going to go up in a direction where people choose it away, or where people who for different reasons can't participate 100 pst. in working life, opt out of such a career because part-time employment is impossible. In these days it's a little natural to draw some parallels to agriculture. In this area, we are busy using all the resources in a press industry, both large and small, to ensure the highest possible food production. In the same way, we also need to make use of all resources in health services — including those with reduced working capacity or who, for various reasons, are unable to work in a full-time position in hospitals. As a follow-up, we are in the Christian People's Party and SV team to gather on a note that underlines the importance of continuing part-time work as a possibility and that it needs to facilitate workers who want to reduce working time for periods. It may surprise me a little bit that a party that the Labour Party is not behind this and in this way add up to a line where voluntary part-time should not be a possibility. For us, this contrasts with the ambition to get everyone to work. The centre party wants a strong labour-environment law to ensure that conditions are organised in the labour market. At the same time, we are in favour of the authorities, as well as the social partners, carrying out a review in which they assess the need to make changes to today's work environment law. The aim is to meet new demands in the workplace while ensuring the rights of workers. As I said, this is a good proposal on an important theme, but I still think there is one perspective that has been somewhat forgotten in this context, and it is about the use of temporary settings, which were also in the past. Part-time use is not the only challenge; there are also problems associated with a large use of time-limited settings. In the same way as part-time use, this is also a threat that can prevent recruitment and reduce the attractiveness of the profession. In many areas, the use of fixed settings can be more effective in recruiting and exploiting resources than in increasing the use of full time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1301	It is an important objective to reduce the level of unnecessary reporting requirements, excessive target management and red tape in our healthcare system. But I would like to underline the word ‘necessary’ because there are some areas where it is necessary to give very clear guidance signals – simply because there is not enough culture around the workplace, or around the health care system in this case, to create change. When the government has now gone through the letter of assignment to see if one can cut, which I believe is in itself affordable, I think it is quite revealing what one chooses to remove, and what one chooses to leave. The starting point for SV to promote this proposal is that in the last three years, with demands from the red-green government of health businesses, the work has been carried out. In 2011, the previous government introduced a requirement to reduce the proportion of part-time workers by 20 p.m. and reiterated the requirement in 2012 and 2013. It is an important gender equality requirement, but it is also very important health and care policies, because a safe and good working life, an attractive working life, a stable working life have a lot to say about the quality of health services. What is actually involuntary part-time? Involuntary part-time means a huge waste of labour. This means – and this applies, as we know, especially to women – that the labour force of very many people in this country is not being used as it could have been used, that many people's resources are not being used, that many people are not allowed to expand in their professional life as they would like. We are also afraid that the large part-time share in health care will go beyond the vital job we have in recruiting in the future – and thus also beyond quality. There are strong stories, when one asks the people who work, or have worked, in less jobs than they would like, about how it is everyday. It's about the tension and the insecurity one feels every time the watch lists come and one doesn't know how much one gets to work. It's about lack of money because if you don't get enough guards, you don't get enough income to support yourself and yours. It's about the lack of security for the future because people with a very low job share may not get mortgages – maybe not get other things that others think are a matter of course. I also think there is reason sometimes to ask questions about how voluntary the so-called voluntary part-time is. Therefore, a full-time culture must involve more than just measures to get those declared involuntary in part-time on a full-time basis. We know that there are many structures in our society that make especially women look like they have to choose to be at home instead of at work. Some succeed in the fight against involuntary part-time. In particular, we see this in the specialist health service in the state sector, but also in the municipalities. I would like to point out to the municipality of Gamvik in Finnmark, which has probably become the first municipality in the country to abolish involuntary part-time. They are now placing themselves on the market as the full-time municipality in the pursuit of new staff in care and care. It shows that it is possible if you have a political will. Mr Gamvik has, moreover, the rapporteur from the SV. What is crucial is to go from fine words to concrete action. Then there is a need for political will to create the full-time culture that we are talking about. What the red-green government had was just a willingness to take concrete action, not only in the context of the matter we are discussing now, but also in the context of, among other things. strengthening the right of priority, which now has a concrete effect in the workplace. Of course, when the nurses’ association and the trade union in consultations ask for these requirements to be implemented against health businesses, it is because those who are most concerned believe that such requirements seem to be made — and fear the consequences of the government’s priorities. I think the government parties should notice that. I am pleased that the other red-green parties have supported SV's proposals. There's a very clear distinction between our side and the bourgeois block when all the bourgeois parties go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1320	The government is concerned with reducing the use of part-time and working to establish a full-time health care culture. The highest number of employees in all positions increases the quality of patient treatment – increasing continuity contributes to improved patient safety. The greatest possible number of employees in the entire position is a prerequisite for the success of developing the patient’s healthcare. The government has been constantly aware of the complexity of the matter and that the goal of full-time culture is laid down in the government platform. Building skills and ensuring continuity are priority actions to further develop the quality of healthcare. We want to develop a full-time culture, where everyone has to contribute to succeed: the board, leaders at all levels, trust-elected, protection services and employees, and through dialogue with students, colleges and universities. Part-time hospital culture has evolved over many years and is now being addressed in a constructive way. In 2011, part-time use was reduced by 20 p.m. in hospitals, and in 2012 demands were made to increase the knowledge base and cooperation with recruitment organisations in the development of new measures. The results of systematic work over the last few years have had an impact in several areas: Many hospital staff have received whole jobs, and many have been given increased job rates. There is increased awareness of this challenge across the organisation. A systematic effort is being made to continue to reduce the use of part-time and a change in the direction of greater emphasis on creating a full-time culture. There is increased knowledge of the use of part-time. There is increased cooperation between the employer and the employee organisations on issues related to the use of part-time. The use of part-time has been reduced by about 20 pst. in all regional health establishments since 2011. At the business meeting with the regional health companies on 7 January this year, I requested hospitals to conduct a responsible employer policy. I stressed that important improvement measures are to be continued. Among other things, they shall continue to systematically reduce the use of part-time and establish a full-time culture. We have reduced the level of detail of the governance requirements of regional health enterprises. It was necessary, but that does not mean that the systematic work in this area should be slowed down. On the contrary, it must continue with the same strength. The hospitals that employers are responsible for finding new measures that motivate employees to work at increased job rates, and preferably throughout jobs. There is also a need for greater flexibility in enterprises, for example: by allowing staff to work in several departments and that parts of the position are linked to the hospital's own employment agencies. Managers and trustees in hospitals need to work together on solutions to maximise the number of full-time jobs. This also involves facilitating employees who, for various reasons, are entitled to or need for reduced working time. It is my opinion that regional health companies are cooperating well, and I am informed that overall, a good common knowledge base has been developed. This knowledge makes it possible to distinguish myths from part-time causes. Some have part-time jobs of their own choosing and often for legitimate reasons. There may be health reasons, AFP solutions, education, counselling in educational establishments, etc. The work on the part-time challenge is complex, and knowledge is therefore essential to know where improvements can be made and where there are good reasons for continuing use of part-time jobs. In a good employer policy, these considerations need to be balanced. In order to succeed in further work, the whole organisation, in cooperation with the employee organisations and employers’ organisations, must contribute to the development of a full-time culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1360	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1364	When we know and have knowledge of what full time means for patient safety, for the ability to build further competence and to reduce not least administrative costs, and when the nurses' association in its consultation call gives feedback that the proportion of part time has not changed particularly in the last ten years – they also show in their consultation that part time has increased in specialist health services – we are surprised that the health minister chooses not to use his authority as a health minister and demands that health businesses continue to work on this. Why does he withdraw this particular point in the mission document, when it has such a great impact on the recruitment and development of competences?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1371	I don't recognize myself in that presentation. The governance requirement set out in the business meeting with the regional health companies on 7 January reads: ‘Important improvement measures in place must be continued. This applies, inter alia, to better division of tasks, extended opening time for planned activities, increasing the proportion of permanent jobs and establishing a full-time culture.» In addition, it says: ‘Entrepreneurs shall conduct a responsible employer policy which also helps to ensure access to health professionals in the future and to ensure that employees of suppliers — including in other countries — have decent conditions.’ I believe this does not differ significantly from what was said earlier, namely 30 January 2013: «The business meeting asked regional health enterprises to continue their efforts to increase the proportion of permanent jobs, increase the employment rate of employees in part-time jobs and offer more full-time jobs, and develop the knowledge base in this area.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1389	The next replicator is the representative Audun Lysbakken, who has drawn two lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1392	Just one.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1397	Only one – then there is a mistake here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1400	Of course, I should have waited to draw the other one until I had heard the Council's response. I note that the Minister of Health and the majority insist that this is a job that they should do with the same force as before, despite changing the wording of the letter of assignment. Then I also find that those who may know this problem very well, and who represent the people who are in it daily – especially the Nurses' Association and the Trade Union – believe that what the government has done here weakens the effort. Then my question is quite simply about the message that makes the impression on the Minister of Health, and whether he will therefore consider changing this when he will again write a letter of assignment, even if the demand for it is voted down in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1407	I am pleased that the representative Lysbakken now goes from saying that we have removed the requirement, that we have changed the wording. Changing the wording has now led to the red-green government’s mission documents exploiting post-development. What I'm going to demand in the business meetings that are going on in May – I've had two more – is that work on the development of a full-time culture should continue. Most employees in permanent jobs are an important prerequisite for the success of developing the patient’s healthcare. The development of a full-time culture for several full-time jobs is also a topic for the business meetings we are now carrying out, where, as I said, I have carried out two more, and I have two more. This work is taken up with the meetings we have with the management, and my intention is to keep the same pressure on this work as it has been in the past. It is absolutely essential for both patient quality and employee opportunities to work full-time and, as I said, to develop patients’ healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1414	Light ground to line number two, however.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1417	Then I use it because the Minister of Health did not answer the specific question, and it was whether it makes the impression that the trade unions in this area believe what he has done weakens this work, and whether he will therefore be willing to reconsider the way this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1422	Of course, I must note that the trade unions have told the committee that they believe that this work is weakened. There is no union that has brought up with me. But I believe that there can be no basis for claiming that the pressure is weakened because one wording differs slightly from one letter of assignment to the other, because the message is equally clear. The wording also changed along the way with the work of the red-green government in this area. I'm going to take it up with the leaders, and if an en route learns that this work is weakening, the message from me is going to become even clearer if possible. But I think what I'm saying here is almost as clear as it's going to be, and we're going to include that in the corporate meetings that we have, and in the meetings that I have with the leaders of the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1429	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1435	Proposalers address an important theme: reducing part-time in hospitals and creating a full-time culture. The hospital sector has a tradition with a high proportion of part-time workers, and there is also a workplace with a high level of women’s weight. Women have traditionally worked more part-time than men in all sectors. It's, as was mentioned here, actually also a question of equality. Part-time arguments are often life situations, but many also work involuntary part-time. The health sector has a high recruitment need, and it is therefore important to have a good employer policy. Whole positions provide continuity of work, and continuity is a prerequisite for quality and patient safety. It is therefore an important objective to increase the number of full-time jobs, and I am pleased that the Minister clarifies the importance of increasing the number of full-time workers, both in letters to the Committee and through its inclusion in business meetings and in business meetings that come. The important thing is the accountability of hospitals and managers as employers. That it's part of the Minister's policy, I'm glad, because it's about responsibility, and it's about leadership. In the case of the average position size in Health South-East, in the hospital in the capital, have actually 90 pst. a full-size job, and actually also 97 pst. at Oslo University Hospital. There has been a systematic job of reducing part-time. Part-time in healthcare companies has also been reduced to 20 pst since 2011. Spectrums refer to surveys that say only 13.6 pst. wish to increase the proportion of jobs, but other studies show that there is a higher proportion who want to increase to full-time. It is important that hospital managers and trustees find good solutions so that those who want to do so can work full-time, but it must also be possible to facilitate part-time work for those who want part-time. I would like to remind you that the public has a special responsibility to create an inclusive working life, and then you have to take into account part-time. Management is about more than getting a writing from the capital, it's about taking responsibility. In fact, you have to have some carrots to get people into a full position: competence development, courses, participation in research projects, wages and the possibility of applying for scholarships. I hope that this responsibility is addressed in the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1450	There is a clear difference in the proportion of part-time in the health sector versus elsewhere. We have to take that inwards as magnification representatives. The difference is especially in view of two occupational groups: nurses and health professionals. At least the working party has listened to the trade unions and sees that they have gone away from the part-time slogan as an opportunity, to have a full-time focus on it. We think that's necessary. We have to remember that the nurses also said that they have examined what was the basis for selecting the nurse training ten years back. Then it was over 60 pst. who chose the nursing care because they had the opportunity to attend part-time. It's reduced to 30 pst. It is clear that what attitudes one adopts in the choice of professions is also important. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes it is important that we here from the Stortinget, and preferably from the government, give clear signals that we must continue to work here to facilitate more full-time, so that we get the same fraction of full-time/part-time as elsewhere in the world of work. We think it's completely room for it in the same way as for doctors. The Nursing Association also points out that only 41 pst. Of those who went out in the last coal, they got 100 pst. position. They have also reviewed and looked at the proportion of jobs advertised, and there was 28 pst. who were full-time jobs. Obviously, we have a job to do. We're glad that Olaug V. Bollestad took up the very constructive input of the Earth Mother's Association. It's pretty hard to work as a midwife in the maternity wards, with a lot of work at night. If we could spread it, we could spread the expertise at the same time. It is also a challenge for the Minister of Health to look at the possibility of increased cooperation between the specialist health service and the municipal health service in order to make 100 pst. the spread of skills, but also the burden of walking the heavy shifts in the evening and at night, and not least getting a better birth time for both the born and for the children. I think it would also have been an incredibly nice plus. The last thing that the representative of Olaug V. Bollestad also mentioned is that when hospitals are our leading knowledge companies and businesses, it is a little special that more than 50 pst. doctors must take temporary posts. I know that the Council of State might send it back to us, and say that we have been in position for eight years, but now the Minister of Health from the Right is in position, so I hope that it will also be cleaned up, because it is equally important for them to be able to plan both careers, working hours and leisure time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1461	I have not intended to send anything back to the previous government. On the contrary, I might have been a little more humble in the debate on Oslo University Hospital than I was. I would say that the previous government actually deserves praise for the work that was started on part-time. And the previous government followed up the initiative taken here in Stortingen in terms of temporary appointments for doctors, and it started a very systematic work on it to get a model, which unfortunately is not yet started, but which I think it should be an opportunity for the parties to find a solution. The work is not finished, but this will continue to work. This is important. Then there is also a question that is addressed in the submission, and that concerns the question of continuing education. I want to take the opportunity to bring you a good news. In the central negotiations between Specter and Norsk Nursing Association, it was agreed on 20 May this year that nurses should be paid in the course of further training when the employer has assessed the need for training and granted leave. When the employer has assessed the need for continuing training and has entered into an agreement with the nurse/special care provider or midwife on leave for such training, the nurse must be provided with 80 pst. of minimum wages and salaries of nurses on the basis of credited service. An agreement shall also be made between the employer and nurse on the other conditions, including the period of commitment, work in health undertakings in training, the consequences of the interruption of training shall be regulated and, as a general rule, binding periods shall be completed in 100 pst. position in health establishments. These are provisions that apply to nurses who start further training in the autumn of 2014. I think it is also positive to talk about the results that have been achieved. I believe that the agreement that has now been concluded between the employer and the employee in this area in terms of continuing training for nurses goes straight into the heart of some of the issues raised in this proposal for a representative. We now see that this agreement provides the basis for better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1472	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1488	Let me start the post with a story: It knocked quietly on the door into the watchroom. The elderly lady stood outside and asked if she could get a few minutes with the nurse on guard. She apologizes, and says she does not mean to be bothering in a busy everyday life. I see how you run all the time, she says, but I should have just talked to you a little bit. And of course she gets the call. There she tells of some thoughts she has made around the food serving at the department – mainly because she sees that her husband eats a little little, but also because she thinks it can apply to several of the residents. Because she ventured to knock on the door of the watchroom a busy afternoon, the department received a call for improvements that benefited all the residents. Many dependants of demented and seriously ill elderly people experience that being a relative can be an impression, and that sometimes it may be difficult to be heard. We know that approx. 80 pst. of patients living in a nursing home suffer from a dementia diagnosis. These patients are vulnerable. Some of them are also without close relatives. The right is concerned that we need to strengthen the voice of users and relatives in the care service. Then we believe that more systematic, but voluntary, user and related work could contribute to increased quality of care. The Association of Senior Citizens draws an interesting parallel between the voluntary efforts of parents in schools and the situation of family members in the care service. At school, parents have the right to speak and propose via the FAU, which ensures that they are heard. They are in dialogue with the management of the school and can give their views on different priorities in the different bodies of the school and the municipality. Family members, who in many cases can be equated with parents/parents, are currently missing such a forum in many places. In many cases, their older people may receive municipal services for at least the same duration as primary school children. Distinguished relatives are important change agents for better quality of care for the elderly, especially where older people themselves are unable to make demands, complaints or have close relatives. Especially there it is important that someone speaks their case. Increasing occurrence of dementia will help to involve relatives more in the future. I believe that a user and family committee will be able to meet the management of the department or nursing home in a formalised way, and that it can contribute positively to quality work. In cases where users themselves may influence, their voice must be heard more fully. In cases where patients are ill and unable to influence themselves, dependants must be their spokespersons and link to health workers. We have some municipalities in Norway that have user councils or representative councils, among others. in Bærum, Oslo, Bergen, Førde, Bjugn, Kristiansund. Alstadhaug’s nursing home in Northern Ireland is one of the last grants with its relatives’ association. We want even more. Although there is a lot of good related work today, we want even more people who have as their task not only to organize summer party in the garden and Christmas end of the department – that is important – but who can also contribute and express themselves in relation to qualitative issues in a more formalised and systematized cooperation. It turns out that none of our neighbours Denmark, Sweden or Finland have currently legalised user and family councils, but it seems to me that they have a more formalised relationship with users and relatives than we have here in Norway. I think it's interesting to reflect on what such a user and family selection should have as a task. In my opinion, there should not be a body where both department management at the institution, representatives from the municipality and users and relatives are represented. Then you can quickly end up in a spiral with a lot of meetings, minutes, choices of representatives and other things that steal time and resources from what is important. What is important is simply that the department or institution management listens to users and relatives, and that a formal and accessible channel for communication has been established. It may be that legal regulation is a way to go anyway in Norway, but it is a position I don't want to be bastant at now. I'm more concerned that we're going to create a culture to involve users and relatives more in processes that are directly related to care services. This will contribute to the learning culture we want to shape the care of the elderly in Norway. In Denmark, they point out that some of the recommendations work well, including: because health care providers supported the Council by involving it in specific processes and by delegating specific tasks to the Council. Although there are no studies directly demonstrating the impact of Danish councils on influence and quality, I think it is reasonable to assume that a stronger voice of users and relatives gives positive ringing effects. There is little research on the impact of user and family councils in Norway as well, with the exception of a report from Telemarksforschung that looked generally at the involvement of users in a 2011 report. One of their quantitative analyses shows a positive link between related participation and quality. This is based on relatives of residents of institutions and shows that the more user assistance systems the institution had, the more satisfied they are with services. On Tuesday 20 May, two days ago, Frøydis Kristine Bruvik discussed at the Institute for Clinical Medicine at Oslo University Hospital. She is associated with the National Ageing and Health Competence Service. One of the conclusions of her thesis is that people with dementia assess their own quality of life to be better than relatives think. She says, "Listen to people with dementia, not just relatives." Bruvik accompanied 230 residents with dementia and their family care providers from 19 municipalities over 12 months of age. Half of the families participated in a structured and psychosocial support programme that included teaching on dementia and problem-solving training. There is little research in the community health service and in dementia care. Therefore, it is useful when such studies are provided. The users, the patients, are even important co-players, and we must not forget to give them the opportunity to influence their own everyday life. We know that one of the greatest risk factors for reduced quality of life for dementors is depression and loss of practical skills. So, how can we contribute to more users, patients and relatives getting a stronger voice? I think a lot of the solution starts locally. It starts with a municipality that wants related work welcome, an institution manager and a department leader who wants to involve users more, and who supports relatives and user councils by clearly involving them. Clearly, it is a leading role to make the institution or service curious about user involvement and to listen and learn from the input of users and relatives. Now I'm excited to hear if the Council sees the benefits of a more formalised family work, and whether he wants to work actively to establish user and family selections in the care services?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1524	I would like to thank the representative Troen for addressing this important issue that concerns many people. Around 67,000 people have dementia in Norway today. Including relatives, there are at least 250000 people affected by the disease and the number will increase over the years to come. I fully agree that engaged relatives with patients and users are important change agents in the care of the elderly – yes, throughout the care service. My overall objective as Minister of Health and Care is to create the patient’s and the user’s health and care services. Of course, relatives should have an important place in this work. They often have both experience and competence from long-term contact with care services, and they are spokespersons for users who need help to care for their interests and needs. We want the quality of services to develop in a culture where users and relatives have real influence. The meetings between the individual user, their relatives and the care services are crucial for the quality of the service they experience. Many relatives have unanswered questions, and they feel uncertainty and frustration about something that is not being followed up or that they would have liked to have discussed with other relatives and in dialogue with hospitals, day-time activities and home services. Often, clarification and answers to questions about issues that may increase the quality of life of users who need services over a long period of time. Sometimes it's about failures, misunderstandings or other things that can easily develop into sparks and mistrust. Conflicts and lack of trust steal time and strength from both relatives and employees. Lack of trust can also go beyond patient safety. In other words, there are many very good reasons to involve relatives in a better way than what we can do today. First of all, this is about creating a safe, meaningful and worthwhile everyday life for about 340,000 people who depend on good care every year. Users' and relatives' councils or committees are established in some service locations. In other places, one believes that such samples are not needed. It is often pointed out that other channels for information, dialogue and user involvement are established. This could be done, for example, by: be user and related studies, open meetings for all relatives, individual income calls, ongoing user and family calls, proposal boxes and social events. There are no national figures for the number of municipalities or establishments in the care service that have user and dependant committees. But we know, among others. through the experience of the Health Directorate, that such selections have contributed to both transparency, better common understanding, closer cooperation and conflict prevention. Relative representatives often contribute valuable information in improving the quality of services and at the place of service. Some people think it has been difficult to recruit relatives to the samples. Some say that you have experience that many fall out after a short time, so that you do not get a continuity in the work of the sample, for example. institutions in which users live only for a short period of time. We don't really yet have systematic knowledge that allows us to say something about why someone feels it's hard to recruit, or how we're going to improve the continuity of the relatives' representation, and how it can get better. The volunteer organisation The relative reaction is strongly involved in this issue. The action proposes the establishment of a representative and user committee, abbreviated to the PBAU, in the care of the elderly in accordance with the model of the parental work committee, FAU, at school. They believe that this could be a democratic meeting place where relatives can deal with matters without being afraid of sanctions. I have a great sense of this proposal. The related reaction is aimed at finding municipalities that have created such samples and will stimulate several municipalities or hospitals to do the same. The Hagen Committee, which wrote the study on innovation in care, NOU2011: 11, has stated that there is a need to establish a collective operator, including at national level, that can interact and negotiate with the public «counterpart» in a tidy manner. Such a person must be able to mobilise competent relatives as important operators on the user side. I believe that this is a wise input, and I believe that we should gain systematic knowledge of the experiences of different forms of user and family involvement both in Norway and in other countries with which we can compare. User involvement is clearly ensured by laws and regulations. The rules also allow for the development of new ways of organising interactions with family members in the care service. The Health and Welfare Act states that the municipality should ensure that establishments providing services by law establish systems for obtaining the experience and views of patients and users. The Hospital Regulation states that nursing homes should facilitate the selection of a voice representative for the residents. Furthermore, it states that the possibility of influence on operations must be ensured for residents. As mentioned earlier, it often means that there are relatives who represent the residents of hospitals. The internal control regulation provides for user and related experience. The comments to Section 4 state that the companies, among other things: shall make use of experience gained from patients, recipients and relatives to improve their activities. The municipalities can do this in several ways, for example: through dialogue in established selections. The assumption is that the samplers have access to information on how patients and users experience the service provision. I believe that the municipalities must actively ensure that residents in hospitals and in nursing homes and users of home services and day care services are given increased influence, and that this is done in cooperation with the relatives. I think we need to think anew about how we can make good arenas for user and relative influence. It is a management responsibility to improve the relative and user influence. Management must facilitate the hearing of users and relatives and that there are areas for dialogue between employees, users and relatives. It is also a management responsibility to ensure that employees receive training so that they can benefit from the resource represented by active users and by relatives. The Family Programme under the auspices of the Health Directorate is working on an active and forward-looking care related policy. One of the objectives is to improve the interaction between public and informal care. However, the programme lacks measures that can respond more specifically to the question raised by the inter-pellant. I'll do something about this. I would like to ask the Health Directorate to gather knowledge and experience from the models that are already in place and ask them to make concrete proposals for action. It is my goal to improve the provision of active change agents for the benefit of their loved ones and for quality development in the service. As part of this work, I would ask them to take a closer look at the proposal for permanent representative and user committees where patients, users and relatives can address issues of common interest. I would also like to ask for proposals for concrete measures to achieve the objectives of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1560	I thank you for the answer from the Minister of Health and am, of course, very pleased that he is also concerned about developing a culture of care that gives patients and related real influence. I am also pleased that the Minister makes such a clear link that giving patients and relatives greater influence can create greater trust, and by doing so contribute positively to increasing patient safety. If we are able to strengthen the votes of patients and relatives, we also help to increase the equivalence between the parties, where both patients, relatives and professionals can provide and receive information, support and help. Many patients and relatives experience that the staff are in control. In this context, we should also pay particular attention to the fact that the generation that is now ageing often has great respect for the professional authority of nurses and doctors, and they may hesitate to address issues related to care or to factors affecting their quality of life. I have read the book "They shall die anyway" written by Liv Riktor Lyckenburg. She calls the book a struggle for a worthy old age. Her book is based on interviews with 50 residents, patients and hospital staff from many parts of the country, and the material is collected over a decade. Although she portrays many difficult and evil situations in her book, it also shows how good institutions and competent professionals succeed in giving older people, nursing a meaningful and good life, and how they use interactions with relatives in a positive way in the development of quality and dignity in care. The Patient Rights Act is clear that all patients have the right to information and participation in treatment and care issues relating to them. Health professionals are also responsible for including patients and/or relatives in care and treatment decisions. However, elderly people in need of help are particularly vulnerable to violations of their integrity, mainly because they depend on the help, time, competence and personal attitudes of caregivers. But also because illness and disability can stand in the way that the helper sees the person as he or she is and has been. Nor do they necessarily have the strength and power to withstand the potential use of power of others. It also tells me that relatives play an important role in the development of a decent and qualitatively good care for the elderly. And we are pleased that the Minister of Health will be asking for proposals for very specific measures to draw more relatives with regard to the preparation of the related programme. I am also pleased that the Minister of Health gives such clear signals that he wants to look at permanent advice to maintain the voice of users and relatives. We welcome that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1575	I want to say that I very much agree with the approach angle that the representative Treen here has. It is often claimed that because most people want to live at home for as long as possible, those living in institutions have to live there for a very short time. That's right for some, but for others, especially for people with dementia, you can see that both nursing homes and nursing homes can be settled over many years. Then relatives are very strongly involved in the situation over a long time. This means that good dialogue between the managers and employees of the institution and its users and its relatives is crucial in order to provide good quality services and decent care. It is not only about the objective quality objectives that are often discussed purely professionally, but also about the quality that is more about the ability to live a meaningful life – the ability to eat a good meal with others, the good conversation, the ability to be active, to operate with the leisure interests that you yourself thought and still feel are exciting and interesting. It's not that we humans, when we reach a certain age, become equal. On the contrary, many people claim that the older we get, the more different we become. It is very important that we have a care and care service that is capable of caring for each individual person and its various needs and views on what is the good life, even in a situation where one depends on the care and care of others. Of course, in those cases where the user himself does not have the opportunity to express this, it is the relatives who are the closest to having knowledge and experience in this area. It's also important to have an arena where you can talk trustfully. Many relatives say to me that they are afraid to give notice, they do not want to be the massetian. They're afraid that it might have to go beyond their loved one. Of course we don't want it like that, so it shouldn't be like that. I think, for example, that the solution of a representative sample can be a place where a person can address problems without necessarily being linked to a single one, but that it is discussed more generally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1582	First, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic. I have no doubt that active involvement of users and relatives is a necessary prerequisite for achieving the desired quality of care. Actually, this should have been a non-debate – that users and relatives should be important premiscuous providers in the care services and should have significant influence, should have been a natural and integrated part of the care services. Unfortunately, not that reality is in many places. I've met some relatives and users lately who can tell completely different stories, stories about how the opposite happens, how users and relatives get an additional strain in meeting the systems. If health and care services are to improve, we need to listen and learn from those people who need help and their relatives. The most important thing is that you learn and thus make a better deal with the offer to the individual. All too often this is about achievement, and users and relatives are considered to be careless, ignored and at worst exposed to threats. I believe that a user and dependant selection of care services can be an instrument for improving the quality of services adapted to the individual. However, I hope, and that is a small challenge for the Council of State, that one looks beyond the elderly and includes users and relatives of other care services in the municipalities – for example, disabled children and adults and their relatives. I am pleased that the new government continues and strengthens the work of user and family involvement, such as the red-green government, among others. was established in the National Health and Care Plan 2011–2015 and in the 2013 Storing Communication on Tomorrow’s Care. It is important that relatives and user selections are organised in such a way that users and relatives have a significant influence on the services provided and that they are not too bureaucratic. I hope that this, together with other national and local measures, can contribute more to seeing users and relatives as a resource and not as a threat when they ask to participate in the design of the service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1604	Interpellanten Troeen addresses a very important and recurring theme on how we can become better at including relatives in our healthcare services. We know that this is a topic that concerns many – that meetings between individual users, their relatives and care services can often be crucial for individual users to feel that they are experiencing good quality in the service. At the annual meeting of the Pensioners' Association in More and Romesdal, where I come from, it was decided to ask the municipalities to set up user selections or user councils in the municipal health and care services. I do not have an overview of how many municipalities have taken this request seriously, but I have received feedback that Ålesund Municipality has recently made a decision in line with the Pensioners' Association's wishes. It's positive, and I hope several municipalities will follow in the same track. The Pensioners’ Association justifies its request that the capacity of nursing homes has been overall deteriorated since 2010. Reference is made to large overcoating, high inlet threshold and difficult protection of cement. Governments also indicated in their response to the interpellant that the number of people with dementia will increase, as we are getting older over the years. Not least because of this development, setting up user and family committees in municipalities will be important to strengthen the work of giving these users good lives despite disease. I am concerned that the Pensioner Association in its opinion claims that it is a continuous feature that patients and relatives are hesitant to complain – that there is a high threshold for relatives to complain in fear of the complaint reversing their loved one who is the recipient of a badly needed care service. In this case, this is sad and very unfortunate, as we know that engaged relatives can often help to ensure the quality and make visible professional weaknesses in health and care services. If we are to succeed in creating the patient’s and users’ health and care services, the relatives must undoubtedly have an important place, as stated by the Council of State. We can often read in the media about patients who are concerned about the quality of hospitals, where residents have become sicker and more nurturing. In particular, this has come after the entry into force of the Cooperation Reform. The interaction reform has undoubtedly contributed to an increase in the need for more care-intensive facilities, as hospitals today print patients much faster than before. I am therefore pleased that the government has said that it will present a big message on the municipal health service. The government has also made it easier for municipalities to build more hospitals. In addition, the government has announced a lift of expertise in care and care. All of this will contribute to the better, but there will in any case be a great need for user and dependant selections in order to provide users with adequate health and care services in the future, in line with the model proposed by the Board of Parents at school, in line with what is also proposed by the interpellant. We have a government that has the title ‘The Patient’s Health Service’ as the goal of all reform work in healthcare provision. This should apply not least to the elderly who are in need of care. I am pleased that the Council of State says that the user perspective should be raised, and that users and relatives should be included in the important work of creating the patient’s healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1625	I would like to thank the interpellant Wilhelmsen Trøen for bringing up an important theme. Providing good and dignified care for the elderly is one of the most important tasks that health policy-makers have, and with an increasingly older population, this is also becoming more important and important. We need to think new and constantly develop and improve services. I believe that setting up user and dependant selections in the care services will contribute to just such an improvement. I believe that the creation of such a sample is entirely in line with the government's expressed desire to create the patient's healthcare service and put the patient in focus. In most phases of life, we participate in arenas where there are opportunities to influence our own and our closest lives. In kindergarten and at school, parents can participate in their own parental committees, and in the workplace and in the sport, there are similar mechanisms for influence and participation. As the Council of State also pointed out, today there are 67,000 people with dementia in Norway. If we count with their relatives, there are at least 250,000 people affected by the disease in some way. This number will increase in the years to come. In the country's nursing home is almost 80 pst. of the residents demente. This imposes other requirements on services. When the residents themselves are unable to speak their own case, it is all the more important that their relatives be involved even more. Denmark legalised a representative selection in 2010. In Norway, several municipalities and establishments have established these. In 2010, Oslo City Council adopted a test scheme with so-called operational controllers at all the municipally driven hospitals. The first Boards were appointed by the City Council in 2011 and consisted of relatives, residents, employees and two external representatives. This is one way to do it. However, there are also other channels of user involvement, such as user and related studies, individual conversations, proposal boxes, etc. In any case, user involvement is governed by laws and regulations. The Health and Welfare Act states that the municipality should ensure that establishments providing services by law establish systems for obtaining patients and user experience and views. The Hospital Regulation states that the hospital home should facilitate the selection of a voice representative for the residents. The Health Directorate’s experience is that user and family committees contribute to transparency, better common understanding, closer cooperation and conflict prevention. The challenges with the samples, which were also addressed by the Council of State, may be that recruitment of representatives and ensuring continuity of work may be difficult. I believe, however, that these are challenges that can and should be solved, rather than giving up the whole scheme. I am pleased that the Council of State will ask the Health Directorate to gather experience from the models that are already in place – because when we are to create the patient’s health care system, participation is at all levels one of many and very important factors. Co-determination is about respect for the individual and his closest. The feeling of being seen, heard and respected cannot underestimate the importance of. And it is worth noting that it is often very little that is needed to create joy in the everyday life of people who are affected by dementia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1646	It's an important interpellation that the representative is taking up here today. If we are to be closed in providing good care, it also depends on a good policy of care. There is a great need for a new policy of relatives. The red-green government started with such work through our big message about tomorrow's care. In the section on care plan 2020, we wrote about tomorrow's community of care, which would include a neighbouring programme, a national voluntary strategy and policies for non-profit, cooperative and private service providers. The background to these measures is that if we are to continue to maintain the important family care at the current level, a new policy of relatives is required to make it easier to combine work and care, which is based on gender equality, which recognises and values the competences and efforts of relatives, and which supports professionally through training and guidance. Such a touching program was our solution. Unfortunately, I cannot see that the current government has followed this up in its budgetary rounds, and it seems that little concrete action is being taken. There is a reason to ask the representatives of the government parties whether this is something that will be followed up in the next year's government budget. During the processing of the previous grossing-up message from the previous government, several other measures were also taken to strengthen the care of the dependants. A joint committee underlined the importance of increasing the level of care provision and ensuring that family care was flexible through financial support and removal, so that it was possible for more people to combine care and work. All parties were concerned that an improvement in the provision of care is central to the development of a new policy of care. In the case of this interpellation, the question to the Minister is about the introduction of reindeer selection at the hospital. It should have been introduced too far, and there is no reason why the government should not be able to implement it immediately. However, it is not only in the care of the elderly that we need a new and better related policy. This is something that needs to be improved in several areas in the health sector. In particular, I would like to highlight the need for greater inclusion of relatives within the psychiatry. This is a topic that has been even more topical since the last day of your life. The relatives often have a better picture of the situation than the different parts of treatment, and it is not least those who know it best. So including family and friends can be one of the most important measures to prevent suicide in Norway. The centre party will strengthen family-based and voluntary care as a complement to municipal services. Care activities that the dependants do for the elderly shall be visible and valued. They carry out a care that the municipality otherwise has to give, or cannot give. Today, 100,000 annual works are carried out on a voluntary basis. It's as much as the public contribution. The centre party will strengthen and simplify the care pay system, and we will make it available for more relatives to the elderly. Care pay should also be a real option, not a consequence of lack of municipal provision. Allocation and measurement shall be done according to the same criterion, irrespective of where you live. Those receiving care pay must receive training, the right to relief and the right to lay off in the event of a disease and a permanent contact person in the municipality. These services must be systematised in the individual municipality. Today, employees are entitled to up to 10 days free of pay in order to carry out care tasks for the next few years. The centre party believes that the same right to pay is the same when an old mother or an old father breaks his leg neck, as when the two-year-old has social illness. We will therefore enter into a system corresponding to the current system of paid leave in the case of children’s disease. In addition, we think that there is a need for a lift for the relatives in their role. Today there are several related organisations, but they lack a common front. The NOU "Innovation in Care" suggested the creation of a national secretariat that could serve as an umbrella for the relatives and that could assemble the work done within this field. These are measures that we think it is time to look closer. There is still a long way to go when it comes to the care of the dependants. We have already had a reform to ensure interaction between the national and local authorities. I would like to relaunch the 'Second Cooperation Reform'. There must be a reform that perhaps covers one of the most important areas: cooperation between municipalities and users, relatives and civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1672	I would like to thank you for a good debate and for a lot of good input. This debate is about user and related selections in care and care. With regard to the recordings of the representative Brattabø Handegard, I am pleased that related policy has been a very important part of the Right’s policy – and also the policy of the Progress Party in the last few years here on the Stortinget, I know. I am particularly pleased that the new government has notified a new notice on the primary health service, because it will be an important message, which will also address some of the questions relating to the related policy, on which the representative was involved. Then it is important that the Interaction Reform is about the challenges of the relatives in municipalities more than dementia; it is about home-based services as well. So it's interesting to see when the matter comes back from the government – and with the health minister's positive attitude today – whether both home-based services and institutions become part of this. But this matter is also very much about attitudes. It's about how we look at patients and their relatives' involvement. A central question that should be for debate on all guards in institutions across the country is: Does the patient live in our workplace, or do we work in the patient's home? That's of course the last thing that's right. The professionals work in the patient's home when the patient is in an institution, and we have to remember that, both as politicians and the professionals who are out and going to interact with patients and relatives. I thank you for the debate and look forward to this matter coming back.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1686	I too would like to thank you for a good and important debate. This has been a concrete proposal that can improve the quality of our care services, but it has also addressed these issues wider than that. I believe that we need to work especially around three axes that will be of great importance to succeed with many of the goals that I feel there is a great deal of consensus about. One is the importance of good management. I think a lot of people here -- like me -- are out visiting a lot of institutions in Kommune-Norway. I say that sometimes I tend to feel it on the mood as I get in the door, whether it's good management at the institution. It is crucial to succeed in these areas. That's why we work, among other things. with a programme of management according to the model of the principal training at school, which I believe has given good results there. Then professionalism, competence, is also absolutely crucial. Similarly, once again — as an inspiration from school, as the user selection is inspired by the FAU in school — it is important to be inspired by the school in other areas. Just as the knowledge of teachers is essential for the quality of teaching, the competence of those working in the sector is crucial for the quality of care and care. This is why we are increasing our efforts to provide continuing training for those who are unskilled as jobs in the sector, and we are continuing to work to improve their skills and continuing training in the sector. It is also important that municipalities have good plans for the use of this competence and how to increase quality by working as a good employer. The third point is to put the quality in the system. There we are now working to a greater extent to look at which national indicators we can use to work more systematically with quality, which not least allows municipalities to compare their own services not only with their own municipality the previous year, but also with others, corresponding municipalities and thus work systematically to improve quality. All of this in total, hopefully, will have a major impact on culture and attitudes in dealing with patients and relatives. I would like to thank you for a good discussion. This is an area where I work a lot, and this interpellation shows that there are many good, creative recordings, not least from the relatives and the users themselves, from which this proposal came, and thereby confirms that the relatives and users are the best change agents we have in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1701	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1715	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1724	Proposals address an important question: the need for food grain to be stockpiled. It is true, as the proposers say and describe, that grain production is falling, and that grain area has been reduced in recent years, which makes us more dependent on imports. In recent years, however, Storting’s approach has been that we have had sufficient food security through our own production and imports. However, the question of the implementation of food cereal emergency storage has been re-updated, as the situation in the global market has changed since the closure of the food grain emergency mechanism in 2003. I therefore believe that the objective of the Committee and the government to increase the level of self-sufficiency of food for emergency reasons is correct. In addition, if we are to carry out the emergency storage of food grain, I believe it is too early to conclude now. We now have more questions that we need to clarify than we have answers. In the light of Meld. St. 9 for 2011–2012 asked Stortinget through Innst. 234 S for 2011 to 2012 the Government on an investigation into the need to reintroduce national emergency stocks for cereals. The country’s agriculture administration made its recommendation last year and concluded with a recommendation to reintroduce such stockpiling for food grain. When the 2014 budget was under consideration, the government decided to withdraw the previous government’s proposal to set aside 5 million. kr for the purpose. The reason is that the government wants to clarify more questions than the State Agriculture Administration’s investigation answered, before one can conclude whether there is a need for the emergency storage of food grain, to what extent, if any, and alternative sketches for the solution. Minister of Agriculture and Food Sylvi Listhaug writes in his letter to the Committee on 27 March that the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research has been asked to carry out this investigation. The time limit for completion of the investigation shall be 1 June. The Government has therefore announced that it will come to Stortinget with a recommendation in the State budget for 2015. Reopening the issue in budgetary negotiations should therefore be unproblematic. In the case of the port silo in Stavanger, it is not certain that it is the optimal solution. This port silo was built in 1965 and was primarily to be a transit warehouse for the import grain, and it has mainly been used for it. Stavanger Havnesilo has been used to a small extent for emergency storage. Emergency storage facilities for cereals have been spread in Norway, including, inter alia: 2 stocks in North Norway, and we have 13 mills that have also been in North Norway. I therefore believe it is both right and important to get a broader investigation on emergency storage, where a possible location is carefully assessed. I think this investigation will be both sensible and profitable, and the extension in time that this investigation will provide will far from create any challenges – I think, on the other hand, that time will be sensible to use. I would therefore like to support the Committee's proposal that this matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1741	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers on this matter. It may seem curative to make proposals that go to a very concrete property in a city in Norway, but it is a larger back ground for this matter that makes the matter important. I will also, as far as I can, give tribute to the case rapporteur for at least some of the introduction and the stepping up of the post, because this is such an important question that we should avoid the political game associated with this. I see the case rapporteur as seeing the political challenges involved in thinking about preparedness in this area as well. Preparations for food production must consist primarily of two elements. You can discuss for quite a long time and maybe even trace a lot from the emergency discussion by thinking that you can solve it all with a standby stock. We all know that it's being delimited in time. The best precautionary measure we are facing as far as possible is to increase Norwegian production, as the rapporteur was also concerned, to ensure that we have good Norwegian production. The climate challenges we see, the conflicts that I have seen arise regionally, and that affect the primary industries to a large extent, the development we have seen of the world's total grain stocks, and I also want to say the direction that we are going in – whether we adopt one agricultural structure or the other – in terms of structure, speaks to the greatest extent in order for us to be more observant in terms of how we can feed not only people but also animals. If you are besieging a production that is more dependent on imports — at least for Norwegian production — this issue is more topical than ever. It may seem remote to imagine that we can stand in a situation where we can't get enough food for the animals and enough food for us seams, but the emergency work is just about thinking as much as possible unimaginable. Therefore, I do not hide the fact that I believe that the government and the government parties here in Stortinget have some lack of implementation in terms of such a small measure as a stand-by stock. I repeat what has been the Workers' Party's position on this: we believe that much of the investigation work done for the red-green government of the State's agricultural administration was sufficient, and that the start was made in the state budget for 2014, which was only 5 million. kr, something the government should have followed up. When I now bring up the proposal of the Central Party and the Workers' Party, I do it because I believe it is crucial that we do not get a new verbal round in the state budget coming to the autumn. It is important that we then get started, so that time doesn't go, and so that one actually realizes an important, but not crucial, part of Norwegian preparedness. In terms of the overall preparedness picture, about producing more food on my own soil, I'm convinced that there's something we'll come back to and discuss in rich monn in the weeks that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1756	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1759	I think the previous speaker used the word ‘curious’ to mention a proposal relating to the actual sale of one building in Norway. I want to say that it's quite special, because that's how, as the case-rapporteur also remarked, that when we had cereal stocks, we would have them spread around the country. If you're talking about a situation like the one we're talking about here -- thinking about the unmistakable -- maybe there's a lot of other things that we're going to lack, and we should think about building standby bearings for. My point here – and I have never concealed that I believe it is a relatively special discussion – is that if we look back at history, we began to build up stocks for power supplies in the 1950s, and we had clear objectives that we should have both six months and one year of consumption of grain, until the Bondevik II government completed this in 2003. Not even in that period, we used the grain stock for what it was meant to be used for. So over a period of 40 to 50 years, we've never needed it. I must also refer to the previous speaker, who was appointed Minister of Justice when the previous government in 2007-2008 presented the Communication on Social Security – Cooperation and coordination, which concluded as follows: ‘Preparation in the food sector is based on the fact that both national production and imports can be well maintained even in times of crisis. The risk picture is no longer such that it can be assumed that Norway will be excluded from international markets over time.» I am very much following that conclusion. We have a world that is becoming increasingly integrated. In addition to self-production, it is actually ensuring that the world is increasingly integrated through trade, the best guarantee that we do not get into a situation where food shortages can occur in Norway. Now we're going to wait for the review that comes from the government. I have never concealed that I believe it is going back in history to introduce a grain warehouse. It's going to cost a lot of money. But now we see what's going to be the conclusion. I would also like to say that there is not much in the world market situation for food that indicates that there is something that suggests that we should get into a crisis situation. The real prices of food have fallen, at least since World War II, and as I said, we are moving towards an increasingly open and integrated world, where everything is connected with everything. I'd like to know that we're going to think about the unmistakable, but then we have to think about what that actually means. Then I think we're going to lack spare parts for most of the transport equipment we need to get the grain out to people. We're going to lack it most, and we're facing a situation that's pretty unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1777	I would first like to thank the proposers for a good proposal, and also the case rapporteur, who starts by saying that this is an important issue. It is a formulation that fully signed. The Christian People's Party has long been occupied by emergency stores for cereals. To the previous speaker, Gunnar Gundersen, I would like to say that at least the undersigned is happy that we were never in such a situation over the 40-50 years that we had to use emergency storage facilities. It tells us that we were not in such a crisis, and I do not – and I do not believe – hope that the representative wanted us to be in such a crisis. So first of all, the production of cereals is the important thing, but we also have to have a slightly longer perspective. We now have a falling national grain production. We know that the grain area is going down. So we also know something about the reason for that, and it's possible to do something about it. In addition, we're going to have a population growth in the next few years – there's no doubt about it. What we have also seen this winter is that geopolitical unrest in Ukraine has affected the price of cereals on the world market. It shows that we live in a globalized world, we are influenced by events. The world market and food prices are affected by geopolitical unrest. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Joint Purchase Agri took on a social responsibility and bought Stavanger Havnesilo. For us, showing social responsibility, and we think it would have been unfortunate if that facility, which is from another time, had been phased out just when we're going to think ahead, think what kind of preparedness we're going to have, who's responsible, and what the location is going to be. In such a situation, we believe it would have been unfortunate if Stavanger Havnesilo had been used for housing instead of being a port silo a little further in order to possibly enter a larger emergency plan at a later stage. That's when we get the matter dealt with in the budget. The Christian People's Party is impatient, and we expect that we not only get an investigation into the budget, but that we can also thank you for getting the matter in her.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1790	When the government in the supplementary pro-position of the State budget for 2014 removed the proposal of the previous government and the Minister of Agriculture of the Central Party to establish a food grain emergency stock, it was justified as follows: ‘There is little reason to believe that Norway will be excluded from international markets over time.’ The central party agrees that there is little reason to assume that we do, but readiness is about planning for the unmistakable. Let me take another example: in Norway there are 2.5 million dwellings, about 1 per million of these are hit by fire, large or small, every year. It does not prevent us from using huge sums on both fire services and insurance, nor does it prevent people who have discovered that the house has not burned for 40–50 years, cancel their insurance. This case started with Stavanger Havnesilo being in danger of being sold, and the area where it stood would be converted into dwellings. The state did not choose to intervene. On the front page of the Nations March 6th this year the Minister of Agriculture was out and asked the Joint Purchase to buy the silos. As we write in the comments, the Joint Purchase Agri took a greater responsibility than anyone could expect from a private actor, and did as the Council of State said. Now, the Council of State must follow up, because no one believes it is a private responsibility to operate a food storage warehouse. Once the Council of State has asked the Common Purchase of Agri to ensure that it should not end, it is in the cards that the Council of State and the Government must follow up. It's announced and talked a lot about an investigation that's started, and an alternative to acting is to investigate. There was an investigation, but let me take some of the history of the investigation that is now under way. On 26 November 2013, that investigation was decided in Stortinget. On 4 March I asked a written question to the Minister for Agriculture and Food and asked about the status. Then I think they got very busy in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, for March 5th, they had put up a letter – a letter of assignment – to NILF and set the deadline to June 1st. According to the letter of assignment, this is an investigation that will cost NOK 120 000. So there's no big investigation, and a government that boasts of action, it's good to spend more than six months doing an investigation with a cost of NOK 120000. It's all but action. Standby attitudes have changed over time. The previous government has followed up in some areas – the establishment of a stockpile of seeds and seed stocks at Svalbard are important measures, and we added money to food stockpile in the last budget. I hear the representative Ørsal Johansen says it is too early to conclude on this now. The Party Party's Party programme does not seem to have been too early to conclude this now, and has a very clear demand for the establishment of a food grain stock corresponding to the population's need for food grain for one year. Nevertheless, the most important thing is to increase Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources. This requires an agricultural policy that provides a good income development for agriculture and a means of using resources. So it feels very right, but a little special, to discuss this particular matter during the breakup of the negotiations. It also puts the break in agricultural negotiations in a wider perspective. The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, said a lot in his post. I sometimes wonder what to do with investigations when one has the representative Gunnar Gundersen, because he had very clear answers. He also said that this was quite special. Then I would like to remind you that Rogaland Right agreed at his county annual meeting with the demands of the Central Party and the Workers' Party in this respect. So the representative Gunnar Gundersen says, in what other areas? Then I would like to remind you that on 24 April there was an interpellation debate in this room about emergency storage and preparedness for medicines. That interpellation was lifted by Höres Sveinung Stensland, so I feel that the classic Right should agree that the preparedness stock is an important part of a country's preparedness. The Left and Christian People's Party participated in demonstrations in front of Stavanger Havnesilo. Now I expect the Christian People's Party and the Left to take the responsibility that they also write in the comments, and the leaders who are there, and to ensure that this is put in place at the latest in the state budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1814	The production of cereals is one of the carriers of Norwegian agriculture and is essential for national food supply and food security. Ensuring adequate access to food grain in a possible crisis situation is important for the Left, and it is therefore necessary to work towards maximising the self-sufficiency of food for emergency reasons as well. However, the role that a grain warehouse should play in this regard is only a small part of the problem. Unfortunately, national cereal production is falling. The cereals area in Norway has decreased considerably since 1991 and the yield per deer has stagnated. A warmer and wetter climate as a result of climate change results in a lower proportion of food grain and impairs the quality of feed grain. The Norwegian cereal crops were the lowest in the autumn of 2013, and the result was an import of almost 60 pst. When we know that Norway has an expected population growth of 20 pst. In the next 20 years, it is important that we discuss how to strengthen Norwegian cereal production. The left considers that the grain area needs to be increased and, in this context, it is important that soil protection for the area suitable for cereal production is further strengthened. Land productivity has stagnated in recent years and needs to be re-increased in order to achieve the objective of increased production. Improved profitability in the production of cereals is essential. At the same time, incentives are very important to ensure productivity and quality-enhancing investments. In this context, the extent of land leased is a particular challenge. Drainage is also an important area in which we should focus. Better drainage will result in increased yield and reduced environmental impact. Soil packaging is an increasing challenge that requires a significant increase in attention among producers and consultants. Access to cereals is also important to meet the challenges facing Norwegian cereal production. In the budgetary agreement between the Government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it was agreed that the need for emergency storage of cereals should be explored. The left is satisfied that the NILF has been entrusted with this task. In the investigation itself, it is important to look now at the future prospects of Norwegian cereal production and what is the status and possible development of the world food grain market: how is food grain stocking in countries where comparison with Norway is relevant, and what are likely crisis scenarios for Norwegian food grain supply? The left looks forward to receiving the announced study for the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1831	First, I just want to signal that SV is going to support the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Center Party in the setting. There are several representatives who have been up and said that the most important thing in the future is two things: it is that we are able to stabilise the climate on earth, so that everyone can produce more food, because every country needs to produce food on its own resources. There is a need for increased food production in all countries. And the second is the need for increased food production in Norway on its own resources. That is the most important thing we can do to ensure our own preparedness and security in any crisis. A climate of imbalance is a crisis that is also not possible to imagine going over. That's why it's all, the most important preparedness we can have, to stop climate change. We have now received a government that has believed that readiness to stock cereals is not necessary and important, despite the fact that I participated in the election campaign in several debates with the Progress Party, where they assured them that this is in their programme, and they are in favour of it. So I was very surprised when this happened. Here they've really tricked a lot of voters into thinking that this is what they were for. We have also, as another matter earlier in this session, dealt with a national plan for soil protection. It's also absolutely necessary to make sure that we use the agricultural area we have to produce food. It is also important that we do not have an agricultural policy based on imported feed. It is not a sustainable agricultural policy. Whether we have to import more of food grain or more of the feed, it does not contribute to increased preparedness in Norway. I heard the representative Gundersen was up here and said it wasn't so dangerous with readiness, because we live in a modern, integrated world where we trade with each other. Thank God there have been no crises that have made us need this, but what future brings we do not know. There is a need to address this in several areas, because what Gundersen is right in is that there are several areas that can be vulnerable in society and that can quickly stop in the event of a crisis. The notion that we're kind of safe from here to eternity, I think we're going to have to leave behind. I've had a fire extinguisher in my house for 50 years. I've never needed it, but I'm going to keep having it, because it's a readiness we want. I've worked a lot on fire protection. It's paying for something when you don't want something to happen. There may be an expense it's hard to take, but if the crisis arises, you'll see how important this is. That's why you have to think about this differently than what I hear more people do now. So I agree that this building was important because it was the only place where so much grain could be stored today. That it has now been purchased by someone who intends to use it for the same purpose, SV is pleased. We imagine that the stockpile of cereals should be several places in the country, because the safest thing is not to have everything in one place. In this case, there must be several places, so that in the event of an attack aimed at disrupting food supply in Norway, one cannot be easily eliminated. Then there's been an investigation that we thought was a good basis. I'm recording that the government has launched a new investigation. I assume that we now have a review in this area, but also the various departments in their areas have to take emergency care very seriously. One is that you can never be sure what's going on in the future, and the other is especially related to climate change, which unfortunately seems that we're not going to be able to stop completely. This means that productions such as food production in Norway can be very vulnerable. That's what we've seen where I live, in the Hedmark, where the cereal crops either dry out or drown every other year. There's a change in the climate that makes us struggle with our own food supply, and that makes us even more vulnerable and need even stronger stockpiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1857	In the proposal of the magistrates Marit Arnstad, Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Geir Pollestad and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum's government ensure that Stavanger Havnesilo is maintained as a grain warehouse. Until 2003, there were stockpiles of cereals and flour in different locations in Norway. In the context of the submission of the 2003 State Budget, the Bondevik II Government proposed the winding-up of existing arrangements for cereals and flour stocks. It was shown that this was in line with St.meld. No 17 for 2001 to 2002 on social security. The size decided to close the stocks. The Red-Green Government – Stoltenberg II – dealt with, inter alia: questions related to food preparation in St.meld. No 22 for 2007-2008 on social security, but there is no need to reintroduce emergency storage facilities for cereals. But in October last year, after eight years in government and when a new government was going to take over, the red-green government proposed a budget of 5 million in 2014. kr for the establishment of emergency storage facilities for cereals. When the government presented its draft government budget for 2014, we made the assessment at that time that it was not necessary to set up a food grain stock. Supply readiness in the food sector is based on the fact that both national production and imports can be maintained well on the road even in crises. A complete blockage of supply lines over a period of time is not considered realistic under the applicable planning conditions. Nor is there any indication that it will be difficult for Norway to obtain the necessary supplies of cereals from outside. Global cereal production has increased steadily over many years, with the exception of some years due to drought and crop failure. Global cereal consumption has increased at about the same rate as the increase in output. Population growth and wealth growth contribute to the increase in cereal consumption. International cereal prices vary considerably, depending on among others. production, stock levels and stock levels. The wheat price increased significantly in 2007–08, and then fell again. The fall in production in 2012 led to higher prices in the following months, while prices went down steadily in 2013 as a result of good crops. The forecasts for the near future show good access to goods. Overall, the price index of the International Grains Council shows that in April there was a fall in the price of wheat. During the examination of the 2014 State Budget, the Stortinget, as part of the budgetary agreement between the Government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, adopted a request to the Government to investigate the need for a system of cereal stocks. As I referred to in my letter of 27 March 2014 to the Nutrition Committee on the proposal for a representative, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has commissioned the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research to investigate the need for a system of cereal stocks. The time limit for the investigation shall be 1 June. When the NILF investigation is available, the government will decide whether emergency stocks are needed and, where appropriate, how this should be organised. The government will come back with a recommendation to the Stortinget on this matter in the context of proposals for the 2015 government budget. The majority has asked the government to investigate the need for a system of cereal stocks. The proposed representative proposes to conclude on how to organise food storage preparedness. I believe this would be to prejudge the government's investigation into the need for a system of cereal stocks and how this might be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1882	The joy in this matter today seemed to me that the Progress Party, at the case-speaker, said that he realized that the stockpiling of cereals was an important matter. Right and the representative of Gundersen's post doesn't exactly support this -- it was the opposite. Securing the production of cereals is the most important thing, but preparedness stocks are also important. We're becoming more and more vulnerable to the more we import, and we're making it less profitable to produce grain itself. Does the Council of State see this risk, or does it agree with the representative of Gundersen that the stockpiling of cereals is going backwards into the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1889	What I am concerned about is that we are now going to do what the Stortinget has asked of us, namely to carry out a thorough investigation into the need further and, if necessary, how it is to be organised. So it's clear, as other people here have said, that if we conclude that it's tricked, it might be a question of whether it should be placed in one place, or whether it should be placed around the country, so it's pretty close to those who might be using it. There were other things that made us think there was a need for a new investigation, and that the one on the table was not comprehensive enough. We are going to follow up the Storting decision and soon get an investigation on the table, and then we will come back to the question in the state budget for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1900	This investigation that is being talked about a lot, takes a terrible long time. It has taken more than half a year to carry out a very limited investigation, and the mission letter from the department only comes the day after I asked written questions and called for the status of the case. It should have been possible to have this investigation ready for the revised national budget. My question to the Council of State is: What did the Council of State do with this matter from 26 November 2013, when the Stortinget decided this, to 5 March, when the letter of assignment was sent? Did one work with the letter of assignment during this period, or did one first start with the letter of assignment on March 4th, when the question ticked in, and the press called for the status of the investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1907	We took the time to get into the matter thoroughly, go through the report from the SLF and find out which questions were not addressed in that report, and which we should get a closer look at. Then I registered that the representative Pollestad was rather concerned that we had spent half a year investigating. Then it's a little tempting to reciprocate that the representative's party actually spent eight years in the government without being able to put in emergency stores for cereals. We're going to take the time we now need to get a thorough and good investigation on which to base our conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1916	I think the council had earned more attention to the future than to the past. It is true that we set up spare stocks for seeds. The seed vault of Svalbard is an important measure. This evolves over time. We had spent money to get started. I do not feel that I received an answer to my question. What were the weaknesses of the January 2013 investigation that meant that one must spend half a year on a new investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1923	I mean, for example. that it is quite appropriate when it comes to spending tens of millions of dollars, to get a thorough socio-economic analysis. I think it's quite appropriate to look at land that we can compare ourselves to, and look at how they do this – whether they have stockpiles or they don't. I also think it is important to consider how to implement such a scheme, if any. I want to say that initially it sounds a little sensible if you're preoccupied with readiness, to place all the grain in one basket, if you can say so, which is quite easy to attack if someone wants it. What was the situation when you had emergency storage was that it was located around the country. So I mean there were many things here that there was good reason to look at. Now we get that review, and I look forward to it in a few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1932	I do not feel that the representative Heggø received an answer to his reply, so I will challenge the Council of State once more. It starts to look like a pattern in these issues in the Biggest, especially those related to agriculture, that the bulk of the population is very clearly expressing one will, and then we have representatives of the government parties that are going in the opposite direction. In my view, this will be a political challenge gradually. The representative, Gundersen, is clearly baffling his point of view, contrary to what the majority of the population has said in the last round of the budget, and as I also see the majority of the population now. Furthermore, it is also contrary to the Progress Party programme, if it should have any meaning. In this way, there is a basis for once again asking the Council of State: Does she agree with the representative of Gundersen, the largest representative of the Right Party in the Business Committee, when he says that there is no need for such a reserve, and that it is going backwards into the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1943	What I'm dealing with is what's in a majority opinion from the Stortinget, and it's that one wants to have an investigation of the need for stockpiles of cereals. I have done that so that we get that report on the table on 1 June. In the light of that, I will decide whether or not there is a need to introduce an emergency storage device.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1948	I'm not going to pull it out anymore, but the question was really whether the Council of State agrees with the representative of Gundersen that there is no need. The reason why I'm asking is that if you really have that opinion, it's strange that the government is now starting work and applying costs to do the job you're actually going to do. So next to that, I think it's a little bit respectful of the majority on the Biggest, I think it has to be the opposite of effective management if that's how you work. So the question is, does the Council of State agree with the representative of Gundersen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1957	It is possible that I expressed myself unclearly, but what is fact, and which I have tried to communicate earlier, is that we have now started an investigation, and that we have not concluded. We have just asked for a new investigation from NILF because we want more knowledge and background material before we can make a decision as to whether there is a need for a stockpile for cereals. We will receive it on 1 June, and when I have thoroughly reviewed that report and assessed it in relation to the State budget for 2015, the answer to that will come there. But I haven't pre-concluded. I have followed up what Stortinget has said, and which I think makes sense: getting an investigation of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1965	Former Chief of Defense Harald Sunde said last summer that readiness is about drying to think the unmistakable. He then arranged to reintroduce emergency storage for food grain and to take care of as much food as possible. What makes the Council of State feel different from the head of defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1970	As I said, there is a basis for looking at several aspects of this issue because I believe that the report that was made initially had not looked at all the factors that I believe are important. I look forward to getting that report, which I have now said very many times, and will see in the light of it what will be the most sensible thing to do from the standpoint of government. So I haven't concluded, but I'm waiting for a report that will be a basis for making such a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1977	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1982	Security of food supply is one of the most important policy tasks we have, at least in terms of security and preparedness. There are good import and export regulations, a good agricultural agreement which ensures both producers and consumers, and not least with a stock to ensure food supply. We must have a chain of quality, safety and predictability for the population. Norway has an objective of increasing food supply, but is currently one of the least-cultivated countries per capita. So even though self-storage is the ideal and increase in own food production is high on the agenda, we have to deal with the realities. We're importing and we're going to have to import forward. It has therefore been a long and in many ways a little taus tradition to have food stores here in the country. I actually think that most people are not aware that we are discussing this today. They think it's such a warehouse. Stavanger kornsilo was located in a populous region, as was done elsewhere, with good port conditions and proximity to a highly skilled agricultural environment – for Stavanger’s part, close to the North Sea. A sale of a complete silo facility for possible housing is now being considered. That means that the warehouse disappears, it's irreversible, or it can be preserved in another way. Therefore, we must now have a strong focus on the consequences this may have. According to the media, capacity today corresponds to approx. one year of import. So I assume, and I trust, that the report that the government is now presenting takes into account a system that is at least as good as the one that we have today. Even if the installation is not fully operational, it is fully usable. Climate crises and other international conditions may arise that can play a relevant role. We don't have to think about the worst scenarios, but maybe other scenarios. On that basis, I find it pointless that it is now intended to tear down this plant, a complete plant in operation. There have been considerable climate costs in construction, and this will continue to be the case, for example. new housing. So I'm asking you to evaluate the consequences. It will be a demanding task and perhaps socially meaningless. However, it will now be possible for professionals to find out when the need is to be addressed. Then there's another moment: if there's a crisis out there, Norway probably has the economy to buy out of the crisis. So maybe we could be a little bit ‘countercyclical’ and build up a stock when there's a reason for that. Then there will be a win-win situation for everyone, and then Norway will not throw itself into the market when it needs to. The Christian People's Party looks forward to a thorough investigation and will participate in the debate when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e1999	All of us who have read history have read about the relationship between food and conflict. The most famous is from 1789 – the French Revolution: Why don't they eat cakes? It's probably history falsification that the queen said exactly that, but the point was the discussion of bread. When we take our own history, we have the discussion from 1814 and the years from 1807 to 1813, when there was a great grain crisis and a great famine in Norway. And we all know Terje Vigen and what happened in that context. When we look at the picture behind us, there's one thing you do in addition to writing the constitution, and that's ploughing the earth. One was at a time when food and food preparation were crucial. And then it's sometimes made as that with food and conflicts around food is something that belongs to the past. I'm afraid that's not a fact. It's e.g. only to look at the great crop failure of wheat we had in the Black Sea region a few years ago, where Putin subsequently introduced export restrictions and world wheat prices rose by 60-70 pst. in a few months. As a result, the price of bread on the streets in Cairo increased. One of the three main slogans in the Arab spring was bread. So there's no historical phenomenon. That's the way it is now: if there's a problem about bread, food, there's a problem about absolutely everything. In 2008, Mubarak managed to keep its bread prices down by means of a very good subsidy programme. Last round he couldn't do it. That's about. 50 pst. of the population of Egypt receiving subsidised bread. So the relationship between food and conflict is very clear. That's why we have the turmoil we've seen in the Black Sea region this winter too. First of all, it's been very real for those who live there. But if there had been a major conflict, there would probably have been a lot of unrest in the food markets again. At first, it would affect the tranquillity of the streets in Cairo and elsewhere in the Middle East. The tank around the food grain stand is two things. One is the Tuske Valley said that if many countries build up food stock for surplus food, world food prices will be more stable. More stability in the world's food prices is of the good. That's one thought. The second is that preparedness is about thinking the unmistakable – that there is a nuclear accident, for example. In Ukraine, for example, there will be a major war. in Ukraine, or that we get other natural phenomena – and that we have a small insurance premium, that we have a little to go on if the undisputed thing should happen. In a very large number of areas of society, we are using great resources just to have such a readiness. Hopefully, we'll never need that preparedness, but anyway, we'll invest in that insurance. That's why I hope, as Mr. Listhaug also said now, that here too one dares to think about the unmistakable, thinking about the preparedness, and that we can thus get to a political majority to reintroduce preparedness storage for food grain.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2014	I drew myself in the last layer, but it was fun to hear Tryg Battle violence Vedum talked about preparedness. Our food preparedness is out of touch with the European Union. NATO is in a larger context, and Norway's defence is in a larger context, in an international context. In 2007, there were major challenges with the crops in Australia. In 2008, there was a crisis in Asia, and in 2010, the representative mentioned was drought in Russia. Had Norway been able to see its food preparedness in a larger context, in conjunction with Europe, we might not have needed to have the large resources and preparedness in Norway for such goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2025	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2039	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2048	The issue we are about to deal with now is a proposal from Johnny Ingebrichtsen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and Karin Andersen to secure the recruitment of fisheries by ensuring school quotas that provide full training for fishermen in the future. As you can see from the setting — and that setting is reasonably short — there is enormous consensus about ensuring recruitment to one of the country’s most important industries. The Committee is also concerned that the teaching quota should be designed in such a way as to be attractive both to the industry and to the student. Recruiting to the fishing industry has focused on this government from Day 1. There are many conferences where I've had the pleasure of listening to the Minister for Fisheries, and at the conferences I've been, she's always spent a lot of time showing how important this is. In the setting, a minority consisting of the Progress Party and the Right Party will appear, among others. the conference ‘Hope in the sea’, in which the Minister for Fisheries took part and spent time doing so. Similarly, at yesterday’s conference in Tromsø, the annual meeting of the Norwegian Råfisk team, the Council of State was again concerned with getting more young people into the fishing industry – to make the breadth of career opportunities visible in the maritime food field, but also to get young people to be involved in fisheries, including fishing. by making the operating base of the boats so robust that a good and stable income is available throughout the year. I noticed with pleasure that the Council of State said that it is proposed that the youth under training for the fishing disciplines should receive their own quota. Governments were also very concerned about the lack of apprenticeship space — a bottleneck in vocational letter training. It was interesting to note that one looks at the possibility of introducing a separate eartaged apprentice quota associated with the student who will have practice on board the ship, and not least that one should give priority to getting this matter out at the hearing in ours, and aims at changes already in the coming school years. It tells me that you have a government council that's forward-looking, you have a government council that shows power of action. I am very pleased because it is good news for young people throughout the country that the fishing industry is asking for. So here it's delivered very well – you're making sure that the fishing industry faces a bright future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2063	It says very well: ‘Fishing is not a profession that can be learned by theory and board teaching alone — sound practice must be done.’ I'm totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, completely, completely, It is very good that the searchlights are seen on the recruitment of the fish business. Unfortunately, we see increasing negative numbers in the age sentence before the profession, but it is not completely black. There are many good exceptions that show that young people want to enter the profession. The application mass of the recruitment quota also substantiates it. Of course, anyone who has chosen training to become a fisherman shall have high-quality training which may meet the requirements of today’s modern fishing vessel. Schools must then be able to provide realistic and full training. It can be done in several ways. We are all certain that securing and strengthening the recruitment of the fishing profession will be a good investment for the future, and good action in this way will probably be well received by us who are here today. There is also a joint committee that is satisfied that one has started a review and review of the setting up of educational quotas. That is the main reason why the Labour Party does not support the private proposal that is on the table today. It must also be said that it is not entirely trouble-free if the scales are to have a universal quota for which they can freely choose the species for which the whitefish quotas are to apply. It is very good that we in the Business Committee are gathered that the teaching quotas should be designed so that they are attractive to both the industry and the learner, and giving the learner an apprenticeship quota can be a fruitful way to go. However, the most important thing to promote recruitment to the profession is that the profession and industry are seen as profitable, secure jobs with good economic and social arrangements. It is also a joint committee which welcomes the recruitment quota system as an important mechanism for contributing to the recruitment of the fishing industry. I would like to point out that the government of Stoltenberg in the maritime food notification proposed to continue the recruitment quota system while increasing the number of new participants from 10 to 20 each year. If requested, it was announced that it could also be considered to increase further to 25 participants. The debate on recruitment will continue. We in the Workers' Party expect the government to come back to the Stortinget so that we can get a new discussion when the review of the tools to strengthen the training is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2085	It's a unanimous committee, so we don't have to cross this matter so far out. But there are some moments in the letter from the Council of State that I would like to comment on. We have very good examples that we are able to create a good learning venue when we are able to engage business to accommodate young people. We have a lot of professions where you're good at apprenticeships, where you're good at bringing young people in and creating a good learning venue in the company, and you connect young people to the industry in a very good way. In this way, the proposal for own apprenticeship quotas is also very exciting in fisheries. It is an industry where you have the opportunity to learn away very well through practice and by taking young people on board the fishing boat. This was also very well received by the members of the Råfisk team's annual meeting, as the rapporteur said in his statement, precisely because an apprentice's quota would also provide an economic incentive for young people to be admitted. Here we talk about expensive apprentices. It is expensive to have a youth certified to participate in a training course on a fishing boat. The letter from the Council of State treats this theme very well. It's good that a thorough review is being announced, and the exact idea of apprentice ratio was very well encountered in the industry, because then you create a win-win situation. The students get a good learning arena, and – for those of us who have their own businesses and have done these apprenticeships – it is also a fact that this creates very good businesses. The need to provide a good training course creates steady, good and competent companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2096	I would like to first of all thank the proposer for promoting this proposal because we can get the focus on recruiting the fishing profession. It's important, and it's important to make it more attractive to become a fisherman. I also want to thank the Council of State for the initiatives she points out to the Committee. They are fully supported, and these are good initiatives. We need to invest in quality, we need to invest in modern fisheries, and as has also been said in the past: we need to invest in creating the environment – the sustainable environment and that part, but also the environment among young people who can imagine entering and joining in the great, forward-looking effort to be involved in carrying Norway as the fishing nation we are. Today's attitude shows that there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee. SV is not represented in the Committee and they want to make their proposals, but in addition this shows a direction on the matter: the Committee concludes on what has been pointed out by the Council of State and it is pleased with such an important industry as this is. We all need good action to make young people want to bet on just this important industry for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2107	The history of the Norwegian fishing industry is the story of how a thousand-year tradition of harvesting the sea's rich resources has laid the basis for Norway's being a major act of maritime food today. Over 150 countries import wild caught and farmed fish from Norway. In 2012, the export value amounted to a total of 51.6 billion. kr. This is Norway’s third largest export industry. The centre party is committed to facilitating a forward-looking maritime food industry with a high potential for coastal development. Developments in the Norwegian fishing industry have thus been formidable, but nothing goes by itself — rather the recruitment of an industry in growth. This is why the debate on school quotas is part of a very important debate, namely the debate on how to recruit young people into the fishing industries. The Red-Green Government proposed in the maritime food notification to continue the recruitment quota system while increasing the number of new participants from 10 to 20 annually. It was even announced that, if the applicant mass was sufficient, it should be considered to increase further to 25 participants. This proposal may help to enable schools to conduct comprehensive fishing training at a satisfactory level for future fishermen. The Central Party notes that the Council of State has notified a review of the teaching quotas. We look forward to taking the debate on how the government will work to ensure the recruitment of what a unanimous magnification has said is to be the world's leading maritime nation. We do not want to support other proposals, i.e. the proposals notified by SV in the case. If we are to be able to recruit enough for the Norwegian fishing fleet in the future, we need to think more thoughts at the same time. The central party believes that one of the most important things is actually to ensure that we have a district policy that will enable young people to settle in District Norway, on the coast, in the countryside, and thus to form the basis for ensuring the recruitment of the coastal fishing fleet as well. This means that we need to secure jobs on land; we need to ensure a diverse business life across the country – including for those who do not want to enter the fishing industry. In an increasingly rich oil Norway, it is particularly important that we pay attention to the recruitment of primary industries. These are renewable resources, but renewable resources are of little value if we do not have the capacity to exploit their value.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2120	First, I would like to thank the SV proposers for addressing this important matter, and I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a good review of the matter. Fishing as an industry and fishing as a profession is important in Norway. Our relationship with the sea, our coastal culture, which is based on fishing as an industry and fishing profession as our own profession, has been – and is – important to Norway, and it will become even more important in the future. For this reason, vocational training must have a central place and actually be premiered if, as a nation, we are to provide traditional industries and occupations, such as fishing. Fishing is not a profession that can be learned on the school bench alone, of course. Practical experience is equally important. At the same time, we need to ensure that students who have chosen to become fishermen secure high-quality education and training and, in this context, access to school quotas is important. Norwegian fisheries are strictly regulated. It concerns both who has the right to fish, i.e. access to fishing, and how much each boat has the right to fish, i.e. how much quota each fishing vessel has the right to take out of the sea. All of this occurs within a total quota of specific species of fish, and it is therefore not entirely unproblematic that school quotas eat the quotas of established fishing vessels. At the same time, school quotas are so important for the education and formal training of future fishermen that it is absolutely right, and it is important, to set fishing quotas for this purpose. The Left agrees with the Minister for Fisheries, as expressed by the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, that fishing quotas should not finance education but that pupils, and perhaps apprentices, should have real opportunities for a certain introduction into practical fishing. That is why I am looking forward to the Minister for Fisheries reviewing the school quota system with regard to the size and arrangements of the quotas, and not least with regard to the question of young people who take fishing training, who can get an apprentice's quota on board the boat where they are going to be apprentices. It may be a good incentive to take vocational training in fishing and fishing and an incentive for vessels, or shipping companies, to receive apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2133	The big ones who have been up here, and the big ones who have written and spoken, have come up with a lot of good words and attitudes on this issue. I'm very happy about that, I'm very happy about that, but what's said doesn't harmonize with what's thoughtful and done – it's too little action. What's really at the heart of this is that today we have a different system than when I was a boy and learned to fish for my grandfather and my father. It's so intense at sea that we have to drive these students through the education system. In response to these questions, the Minister for Fisheries has made a proposal to introduce some apprenticeship quotas. That's a good idea, and I support it. But before the students who are to become fishermen are to become apprentices on board a boat and stand in the storm and stand in the stream on the deck, they must have learned what's in front and behind the fish. And where are they going to learn that? Well, they're going to learn it in the established system that we have through the 19 training institutions in the country that have allocated educational quotas. That's the best system -- that they're prepared to become apprentices. There are no electrolytic apprentices who are uneducated when they begin as apprentices. That's what there's questions for here. The organisation of these training institutions, FosFor, has discussed this several times and made decisions about it, which you are probably familiar with. They also say that these students need to get so many fish quotas that they can prepare to go on deck on a fishing boat and take part in real life. We've tried it. I have been in the county of Finnmark since 2003, and it is one of the counties that bought such a boat. We used to send the students out on fishing boats, and then they got some allowances, but it was so intense. I know the skippers on these boats, and they said, "We didn't have time to get enough of them." We did a roll, and then we got these quotas, maybe 70 tons of mackerel, and we did it during the night, and we realize that there was not so much learning for the students. That's why the best system to teach them to become apprentices is just to let them try out these training boats that are along the coast. I was in Måløy the other week, and there is also such a boat. We've got it all around the country. And what happened just before Easter with that boat to Finnmark in Honningsvåg, was that they put some cunning cod nets on the quotas they have in the year – 7,500 kilos – and one night they got so much cod that there are only a few hundred kilos left to the next coal within the same quota, so they can't go out to sea and learn. That's what really is at the heart of the matter. The Progress Party has asked the previous Minister for Fisheries what he would do to increase this training quota. And the Right has done so, by today's Fisheries Minister, in 2011 – understood that this training quota should be increased. So I understand it so that everyone is for this. But why not vote in favour of the proposal that is on the table in front of you? I can't believe that, because there's no interaction. For the entire training environment, which has tried this for several years, it is quite clear that this is the best way to do it, and then we have to come up with the apprenticeship quota proposed by the fisheries minister in retrospect. Now it's really good to release a little bit more quota, but it's not about that much. Just before Christmas, we adopted a different funding system. Before that, we paid the fishermen to do quota surveys. Now we fishermen have to pay a fee, so now we pay with money. So all of a sudden it's about. 30000 tonnes available, even if there are several of them. It also fits in with the fact that there are very good quotas in the sea, especially in the Barents Sea, to make this conversion of the system. Finally, I would like to say that we have divided our proposal into two points, and the last part is that schools in the north that have North Sea fishing quotas at Skagerrak can switch them to cod, because it is not economic to go to the North Sea and fish 10-20 tonnes of herring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2154	The President takes the view that the representative of the European Parliament has addressed the two proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2157	Successful recruitment to the fishing industry is a prerequisite for this industry to continue to play a major and central role as value creators in the future and to contribute to ensuring Norwegian well-being. That's why this topic has been very central to me from the very first day as the Council of State. Fisheries authorities may, by virtue of the Sea Resource Act, allocate educational quotas to schools for the implementation of practical training and training in fishing. The aim is to strengthen the teaching of fisheries by giving students an insight into practical fishing. However, the legal structure cannot be used to allocate allowances for financing ship operations or for teaching as such, and there is therefore no difference between schools with and without their own vessels. Some schools have their own teaching vessels, while others have found it more appropriate to use the quotas for students to receive some practical training on board regular fishing vessels. The figures show that the teaching quotas for bottom fish have increased in recent years, while for pelagic fish species there has been a reduction. It is the Ministry which lays down the annual framework for teaching quotas, following recommendation from the Directorate of Fisheries. Then the directorate and county councils manage the distribution between schools in question. In the case of allowances released as a result of the conversion from research quotas to fisheries research fees, it has been a clear premise that these quotas will benefit commercial fishing vessels as a compensation for the new fee. Thus, the conversion does not provide any room for increased teaching quotas. The government wants to ensure good recruitment for the fishing industry, and I have already announced that we are going to review the educational quota system. This is about students and perhaps apprentices getting real opportunities for a certain introduction into practical fishing. There are likely to be great opportunities for those who choose the sea and the coast as the workplace of the future. If this industry is to become the future industry we want, it needs to attract enough and qualified competence. In this way, teaching quotas are an instrument for strengthening training in fishing and fishing. The scheme is now being reviewed as regards both the size of allowances and the alignment of allowances. An important reason for the lack of secondary education is lack of apprenticeships. I would therefore like to make it possible for young people taking fishing training to get their own apprenticeship quota into the boat where you're going to be an apprentice. The extension of the scheme to include apprentices could make it more attractive for shipowners to take apprentices on board. The case is sent during these days in brief consultation, with the clear aim of introducing the scheme from the coming school years. It is important that we can get realistic vocational training, because it can give a good start to a professional career in the fishing industry. In addition, the Ministry will now also assess the possibilities for apprentices to have approved practices on board fishing vessels below 15 metres. Today, apprentices only receive recognised practices on board larger vessels. I record that the representatives behind Document 8:24 S for 2013–2014 request that schools allocated educational allowances be able to choose ‘parts or the whole quota for some species of white fish to be converted into other species of white fish’. [[...]] Under the Marine Resource Act, no allowances may be allocated in excess of national allowances, where determined. This means that national quotas for each species of fish must be allocated in a specific manner, in order to ensure an accounting for the quota that does not result in overfishing. With regard to recruitment to fisheries, I would like to add that I want to continue the recruitment quota system. This scheme has been a good tool to help young and motivated fishermen to establish themselves in the long-term fishing profession. I want to get back to the final launch of new awards before summer. I would also like to continue the Youth Fisheries Scheme, which is aimed at young people who want to fish for marketing during the summer holidays. This scheme also contributes positively to young people meeting, tasting and testing this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2193	The Minister of Fisheries says that you can't convert a quota, that is, switch from one species of fish to another. I've just tried to brief you on it: If you get a quota in the south, it's impractical for a school in the north to travel for several days to get there, and then it might be convenient to trade with another school. It's also been done with the soldering fish in the ordinary fishing. It was this fisheries minister who allowed it: boats by Iceland could choose whether to let fishing by Iceland or in the Barents Sea. So there you could convert. What makes you unable, for practical reasons, to change, for example. North Sea fire against cod in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2200	I understand that the representative Mr Ingebrichtsen is now dealing with something other than the proposal that has actually been put forward. After all, it is produced that the quota allocated to you must be able to be exchanged in another type of fish itself. You can't do that. What is now being asked; whether or not a kind of quota change can be achieved, which ensures that the individual population is not burdened more than what was originally planned, I will be willing to see if it is appropriate to consider that for some of these species, there may be such a small quantity that it may be difficult to implement it in practice for some schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2207	The proposal is divided into two, and the second point is just about converting for practical reasons. To the next question: We're not going to have these quotas for the students in order for the institutions that do the training to finance the operation. We have them for the students to learn how to treat fish. It's good with apprentice quotas. Does the Minister for Fisheries see that apprentice quotas are going to finance this training and to bring the students out to sea? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2218	I have actually taken up this proposal and presented it in quite many contexts now, and wherever I have been, it has been almost unison consent – yes, it has been almost applause. It's about the cost of having an apprentice on board. For me, it's also a point that we need to make it more attractive to take apprentices on board. We have too many young people who don't get an apprenticeship, and who thus do this out of high school. In addition, I also see a pedagogical point in the allocation of such a quota, by which one can also gain insight into that part of the fishing industry in Norway: it is about quotas, quota accounting and being able to manage stocks sustainably. That part of it, too, I think it may be important to have a relationship in the training situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2225	I wonder if the Minister for Fisheries has spoken to the students who had intended to take fishing training, and who decided to do so because it was so exciting and interesting to come on a training boat, where they could try to fish in a real way, with quotas. Has the Minister for Fisheries met such students, and does she see the value of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2232	I get feedback that it is important to make training as close to business as possible and as realistic as possible. That's why we think it's important for every student to have a few kilos of fish with it, whether it's the first two years, when you have the more theoretical training, or when you get into the apprenticeship phase, and then you can get a quota with it. The questions asked by the representative, Mr Ingebrichtsen, are not really anyone who has asked me before – on the contrary. I have met school owners – county councils – fishermen, fish farms and other actors in the industry, who have been very happy and who are very positive about this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2239	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2255	This is a matter of consent for Norway to participate in a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of a Regulation establishing and operating European satellite navigation systems, Galileo and EGNOS. This was adopted by the EU on 11 December 2013, and in the course of the Grand Duchy’s treatment of the State budget for 2014 in December 2013, an overall increase was made in order to provide funds for continued participation in the programmes. Norwegian participation undoubtedly gives the Norwegian space industry the opportunity to take a position to participate in future bidding rounds in the context of the programmes. Norwegian geography, topography and nutrient and housing structures suggest that Norway will be among the countries with the most benefits of Galileo. As you know, Norway has also been involved in the development of Galileo and EGNOS since the mid-1990s through participation in ESA and the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Development. There have been two large-scale notifications of Norwegian space activities. It was 1986, and it was last year – 2013. In the examination of the last Storing Communication — Between Heaven and Earth: Norwegian space activities for industry and dividends — there was an overall increase in support of the Communication, which gave Norwegian space activities clear strategic objectives, broad lines and defined policy areas in which space activities should be a tool for Norwegian interests. One of the critical success factors for achieving the objectives is participation in these EU programmes. This is an important step for Norway to consolidate its position as a space nation, but also to become an even larger space nation. The figures show that Norway's space economy has a total of 1.9 pst. of the world's space economy. In comparison, Norway produces about 1.6 pst. of the world's fish farming and about 2,3 pst. of the world's oil and gas. Norway is world-renowned as an oil, gas and fish nation, but unfortunately few know that Norway is also a Roma nation. It is therefore an overall nutrition committee that agrees to the inclusion of the act in the EEA Agreement, which is a prerequisite for the follow-up to the Storting’s decision on Norwegian participation in the programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2272	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2286	The Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Bosnia and Herzegovina was signed at the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in Trondheim on 24 June 2013. A guiding principle of the third country policy of the EFTA States is parallel to the EU. The background to this principle is to guarantee Norwegian enterprises as good conditions as competitors from EU countries and to contribute to processes of a more political nature. The Free Trade Agreement with Bosnia-Herzegovina seeks to contribute to increased stability in the region and to strengthen economic development in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Free Trade Agreement and the Agreement on trade in agricultural products have been submitted to all departments, all of which recommend ratification. A Joint Liaison Committee recommends the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Agreement on trade in agricultural products between Norway and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox After it had called the votering, she said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2298	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to vote. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2372	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2382	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2392	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Olaug V. Bollestad, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘The government is asking the government to initiate an external expert assessment of the capital process in Health South-East RHF and to submit a plan to the Stortinget for the further conversion in the capital area.’ The Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party have notified that they are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2425	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Ruth Mari Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make clear demands on health businesses to reduce the use of temporary employment and to ensure that permanent posts are the general rule.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reintroduce concrete and clear demands to reduce time use in Norwegian hospitals, and that the reduction must be made in a flexible way in cooperation with employees. As a general rule, permanent posts shall be published as a whole.» The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2461	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2469	During the debate Knut Storberget has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to bring an action as soon as possible for the establishment of a food storage facility.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2505	During the debate, Mr Ingreichsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals are made after the deadline laid down in Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure. The President proposes that the proposals should nevertheless be addressed to the vote, in line with the custom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase school quotas so that they are large enough to provide the best possible training to ensure the recruitment of future fishermen by increasing school quotas for white fish and to ensure that unit quotas for schools are increased to ensure that training is carried out fully.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a scheme in which the schools allocated educational allowances may choose whether to convert parts or the whole quota of some species of whitefish into other species of white fish.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-22.ana.ud481e2581	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
