ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e52	Honourable co-representatives! The former industrial worker from Hurum, the head of the AUF, the party leader, the staging representative and the Vice President of Stortinge, Reulf Steen, died nearly 81 years old. He fell asleep on June 5th this year after a long fight against illness. The journalist, the Nordic Council politician, the Minister for Transport and Trade, the vice-president of the Socialist International, the NATO politician, the former leader of the European Movement, the ambassador to Chile, Peru and Ecuador, was born into the working class for which he lived and breathed. Only 14 years old he was elected vice-leader in Hurum Arbeiderparti. It was also as a 14-year-old he gave his first May 1st speech. That's when he laid the foundation for the populace he was to become later. He was an unusual political talent and quickly rose to the degrees of the AUF and Youngstorget. In 1961 he became head of the AUF, he became Vice President of the Norwegian Labour Party in 1965 and the President in 1975. He was a great representative for 15 years and 194 days, respectively from Oslo and Akershus. Here he was chairman of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Constitutional Affairs and President of the Committee on Church and Education. Reulf Steen was a visionary and a real internationalist. He led a number of programming processes in the Workers' Party, and engaged in the major international issues. And he put tracks behind him. The Steen Committee will be standing as a building block in the development of Norwegian school. The basis for the modern high school was laid here. By the passing of Reulf Steen we now in retrospect see his greatness as thinking and speaking, but first and foremost we see him as a glowing defender of democracy and against injustice and not least his professional political commitment. He wrote a lot in newspapers and magazines. He wrote books with talkative titles such as ‘Where the heart beats – images from a life’, ‘Power struggle — new images from a life’, ‘Earthquake’ and ‘Earth has landed’. Throughout his life he fought dictatorships of all kinds, fascism, communism and military juntas in Chile and Greece. His solidarity with the weakest was without borders, and he spoke out loud and ruthlessly against those who allowed profit to go ahead, and who closed their eyes to discrimination and oppression. After his stay in Chile, he continued his international commitment and social work, including: through organisations such as Norwegian Public Aid and Attac Norway. He was a diverse, complex person who lived a diverse life, also characterized by drama. We should also remember that Reulf Steen was a spouse. He was a father, father-in-law, and grandfather—all in the big family were connected with strong ties. A long day's work is over. We thank Reulf Steen for his lifelong efforts for land and people and bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e86	The representative Per Rune Henriksen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. A number of permit applications are available: by the Group of the Left on sick leave of the representative Iselin Nybø from 13 November until further notice from the representatives of Marianne Aasen, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Sven Roald Hansen, Sveinung Rotevatn and Geir S. Tuskedal on leave from 17 November until 19 November – all to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees in Geneva and Brussels from the representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Bjørn Lødemel and Kenneth Svendsen on leave from 18 November until 20 November – all to participate in the UN parliamentary consultation in cooperation with the Interparliamentary Union in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health 18-20. ==References====External links== November For Hedmark County: Rangdi Krogstad 18-19. November For Nordland County: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen 18-20. November For Rogaland County: Marie Breek 18-19 November and Svein Abrahamsen 13 November and until further notice For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Bjørn Erik Hollevik 18-20. ==References====External links== November For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen 18-19. November
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e179	Svein Abrahamsen is present and will take his seat. The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e184	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Marit Arnstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a climate law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e189	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e203	Facilitating our citizens to make good choices in their everyday lives is an essential task for us as elected representatives of the Grand Duchy. Prop. 126 S for 2013–2014 with follow-up required in Prop. 128 L for 2013–2014 is important in this respect. These issues concern adaptations for more people to use the EU-wide international eco-label. The Norwegian labelling of the Swan brand is widely used, but it only applies as good information in this country. Having several Norwegian products labelled with the European Eco-label will increase the availability and competitiveness of the products and strengthen Norway as a supplier on the European market. It is therefore an overall committee which supports the proposal to adjust the payment regime in order to facilitate the entry into force of the labelling by several producers. By differentiating the fees, smaller producers will be able to participate in the labelling and this is expected to increase their use and improve the economy of the scheme. It can also be expected that increased use will have a self-enhancing effect on the scheme. The fees shall initially cover the costs. However, until increased use is made, there will be an increased need for grants for the administration of the scheme. The Committee also welcomes this. The inclusion of a new payment regime in accordance with the decision of the EEA Committee requires amendments to Norwegian law. Positive decision concerning Prop. 126 S therefore also requires adaptation through the changes in the laws taken into account in Prop. 128 L. The Committee has examined both cases in parallel and is unanimous in its support of the proposals in both cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e212	I am very pleased that there is a joint committee that stands behind both issues. The EU Ecolabel, better known as the Flower, is the EU Eco-label. Norwegian producers may apply to mark their goods and services with this. The flower is part of the EU's sustainable consumption and production policy. In Norway, we have, as we know, the Eco-label Swan. The Eco-label provides information that certain requirements for products and production are met. When choosing goods and services that are eco-labelled, consumers must be sure that they make good environmental choices. The aim of eco-labelling is to reduce negative impacts on the environment, health, climate and nature. As the Committee points out, good eco-labelling is important for customers to make good choices in purchasing goods and services, and common European labelling and criteria are a good measure. The proposed amendment concerns changes to the fees for the award of the Flora. The purpose of the new charging system is to make several producers label their products and services with the Flower. In Norway, only seven producers today have this labeled on their products. There are producers of universal cleaners, paper, textiles and indoor paints and varnishes. The change to the charging system shall result in a fairer financial distribution. For manufacturers, the change means that those with the largest turnover have to pay more proportionately for the operation of the mark than those with a low turnover of eco-labelled products. I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposed amendment to the Consumer Trade Mark Act, so that the new and more flexible charging systems will also apply to Norway. Because the fees are in any case relatively low, changes in the fees for manufacturers will not be noticeable for consumers. Like the Committee, I expect that the amendment of the law could lead to a better distribution of the Flower among Norwegian producers, and that this in turn will contribute to a better competitive position for Norwegian products in Europe. As the committee assumes, increasing the spread of the flower will also lead to a better economy for the operation of this branding system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e233	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e247	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e261	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e270	As rapporteur, I will briefly present the Committee's position before arguing for the views of the Christian People's Party on this matter. The Workers' Party has proposed to the Government to ensure that future offers in the field of child protection are offered in the same length as those made in the Health West for cross-sectoral drug treatment, and to the Government to make use of the space for action until the new EU Public Acquisitions Directive is incorporated into Norwegian law and to make maximum use of tenders in agreements with non-profit actors. A brief summary of the Committee's position: an overall committee will have good conditions for the ideals. We all want long-termity and predictability. But there is disagreement in the committee. The representatives of the Right and the Advance Party consider the 14-month contract of the Council of State for the purchase of permanent child protection facilities to be sound. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party believe that this is not in line with the goal of long-term and good conditions for the ideals. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party believe it is important to distinguish between ideal and commercial actors and to use policy instruments for the survival of ideal actors. The Right Party and the Progressive Party consider that different conditions for individual actors would distort competition. There is one suggestion in the vote by the minority, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party: ‘The Government requests the publication of new competitions reserved to non-profit actors for the purchase of permanent child protection facilities after 1 February 2015, with a short offer deadline and with a contract period from 1 April 2016, with a contract duration equivalent to that established in the Health West for cross-sectoral drug treatment.’; I am addressing that proposal. This proposal for a representative is about the length of the tender in agreement with non-profit actors in the field of child protection. It's about contracts and the length of the contract in general. It is about what we should do before and after the inclusion of the new EU Acquisitions Directive. This is what Stortinget is going to have a lot of debates about in the future. However, in dealing with this case, the specific purchase of fixed child protection places, which had a tendering deadline of 15 October, has become the most important issue. The Council of State has chosen to complete the purchase, as she explained in her letter to the Committee. The damage has already happened. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the Stortinget should ask the government to do what it can to minimise the damage and start work on the re-opening of the same sites, a new round of reserved non-profit actors, and with the long-term and predictability of the contracts to apply when the ongoing round of the 14-month contract is over. We know that a bidding round takes time, and there aren't many months to do this on. The Christian People's Party will vote subsidiaryly for the proposal from the Left. We know that the main single challenge for the ideals is the historical pension costs. The left is right that a joint bidding round should not be conducted as long as this issue is not resolved. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important to recognise that differences between ideal and commercial actors are about much more than just pension challenges. The Christian People's Party does not think it is right to submit a joint tender when the solution to the pension is in place. That is why we are not voting primarily for the Left's proposal, but we want to pay tribute to the Left today for seeing the ideal situation and doing what they think is right to prevent a reduction in the non-profit sector. That degradation can go very fast if we don't do anything right now. Then I have notified that the Christian People's Party will vote subsidiaryly in favour of the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e294	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e297	The background to this proposal and to this debate are heavy international trends which demonstrate the commercialisation of welfare tasks in both Norway, Scandinavia and Europe. We've seen the trend for a long time, we know that there are large international players who are looking to make money in a market that has previously been widely agreed in Norway to be a public task. As a result, a broad consensus has developed also in Norwegian policies that, in addition to public responsibility and the great effort made by non-profit actors – by volunteers – a private element is needed to assist in public accountability. But there are also clear ideological distinctions between parties here in this room as to how heavy the commercial feature should be and what role it should play. It's very well illustrated in what's written by the respective parts of this setting. Another hindrance is the development we have seen in Sweden in particular, which can be compared to Norway in many ways. There we have seen that the development of commercialisation has escalated during Reinfeldt's period of government – overall, the commercial ones that have made a profit in the order of 30 billion. kr from a sector which is initially a joint responsibility and a responsibility for the public with ideals as a necessary complement. This means that we are concerned about how we can ensure important welfare functions and Community solutions, but at the same time what position the government parties really take on this issue. The background to the urgency of such a proposal is – all of whom are aware – that the EU procurement directive will enter into force in 2016 also in Norway. The space for action we have today is quite free. That is why, with the proposal we have made, we believe that the government should commit itself to making full use of it, to have sheltered offers for non-profit actors, as we have good experience in several sectors, and to have maximum length of tenders, so that we can both rig the field to meet the challenge of almost free competition after the entry into force of the EU Directive, and – not least – to give the ideal time for conversion to meet it ever tougher competition. We record that the government's response to this was to issue a separate shielded tender procedure with a very short duration. We cannot understand – if the government really, as they say in rhetoric, wants to protect the ideals – that they add to such a short tendering regime. I suspect that the EU directive is being pushed ahead in a process that the Right Party and the Progress Party have actually been involved for a long time, namely the commercialisation of welfare production in Norway. Here, the EU Directive is a loving opportunity to push that process ahead. Another thing is that the Council of State in its letter of reply comes with what I would call this year's most beautiful self-objection, because in its answer to why it is not possible to make changes to what has been announced so far, she actually documents what we have said, namely that there may be existing actors among the ideals who have chosen to stand above a competition, since it has such a short duration, that there may be new ones who could wish to establish a foundation if they had more long-term contracts, and that the price increases as a result of covering the increased risk associated with short-term tenders in the pricing process. We have many questions in this matter, and in particular we want answers from the government parties on why they are so opposed to having their own protected bidding competitions and taking advantage of the space for action before the EU Directive enters into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e312	We have had this debate here in the Chamber before. It was not long ago, and I recognize the arguments both in the setting and in the opening of the debate. It strikes me as strange that several illogical arguments are repeated year after year, and that representatives who are initially perceived to be very concerned with the best of the child at times seem to be more concerned with ownership, employees and some organisations – they about it. The right is pleased with the diversity we currently have in the provision of child protection. The variety is created through the variation in the supply of both public suppliers, non-profit suppliers and private suppliers. The provision of child protection services is one of the areas where we have seen a good and varied offer, and we are happy for all those who contribute to meeting the need for places. Having enough spaces is absolutely essential, and we have no one to lose. For the Right, the best thing for the child is always to be at the center of the choice of solutions. For us, it is not crucial who owns or operates the offer, but that a qualitative good service is provided with the content and at the price agreed. The staff of the institutions have a high level of involvement with the children and provide what they can to improve their daily lives for all those who need additional follow-up in order to gain a growth that allows active participation in working and social life. I strongly react to the fact that the ideals as a supplier group are so clearly referred to as better and more dedicated to their work than the other private ones. There is no basis for establishing, and it is a gross injustice to all those who make a daily effort in the other institutions. It is therefore impossible for us to understand why one supplier group should be protected in the tendering process. By operating several separate tenders and at different times, it will also be difficult to see the offer as a whole. On the other hand, through joint tenders for non-profit and other private suppliers, there will be a better overview of the range of offers available, thereby making it easier to ensure a wide range of and good offers. The non-profit suppliers have over time delivered good offers at good prices, so there is nothing to suggest that they would get into such a tender badly. However, there is one thing that needs to be clarified in order to allow for a joint tender, and it is that the historical pension costs incurred by some of the non-profit institutions, in view of the requirements that followed deliveries to the county councils, are met in such a way that all can compete under conditions that do not prejudge anyone. We know that the government is actively working to find a solution to this challenge, and that a clarification can be put in place in a short time. It is therefore natural to wait for a new tender to be launched in the spring of 2015 before taking a position on this. The right will not support the proposal of the Labour Party. It also seems desperate, and not so uncertain, to propose a tendering regime to be launched just before this type of protection is no longer accepted under the EEA Agreement. Many suggest that such an experiment may be the subject of treatment at ESA, and thus one could risk the child-restraint children being unsolicited while waiting for clarification. To the Right, such a gambling with the best of children in a purely ideological game seems completely irresponsible. On the right, it will follow up the submission of joint bids by the government for non-profit and non-profit institutions serving households, and hopes that the Storting will await a solution to the pension challenges. On that basis, we will be able to put in place long-term and predictable agreements that can provide security for the children, the employees and those who are going to bet on this kind of public offer. The left has promoted a proposal that is consistent with the ideas of the Right. It allows the government to clarify the possibility of dealing with the historical pension costs, and it outlines alternative solutions for the good management of future tenders, preferably as joint bids for non-profits and the other private ones. The right will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e331	Non-profit institutions serving households are an important and integral part of welfare services. Without ideals, society cannot guarantee a good welfare offer to the population. The ideals represent important values and have societal purposes. They are an important bridge between government, voluntary and civil society. The Central Party agrees with the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party that we must distinguish between commercial and non-profit providers of welfare services, including in child protection. We will protect ideal providers from bidding with commercial operators. Therefore, earlier this year the Central Party promoted a proposal for a representative to continue the cooperation agreement between the State and the non-profit sector and on its own bidding rounds for NPISHs in the field of child protection. We agree that retirement is a challenge for the ideals, but we do not agree that the ideals should be treated in the same way as the commercial once this problem is resolved. Equal treatment does not take into account the fact that ideals often have a different economic strength and organisation than commercial ones. The difference in negotiating power and the ability to enter heavily into tendering processes will also be there even if the pension problem is resolved. We have a government that speaks with two tongues: they do one thing in their care, where they go for longer terms, while child protection has to deal with 16-month contracts. We support the proposers in making use of the maximum length of tenders in the tendering procedures. At the same time, we would stress that it is a major democratic problem that the Stortinget is encouraged to adopt this almost on a temporary basis. The reason for this, as stated in the proposal, is that ‘Norway has failed to obtain an exemption for the activities of private NPISHs’ in the new EU Acquisitions Directive, which is due to enter into force in January 2016. A more precise description is that the majority of the population make sure that Norway has to comply with EU rules through the EEA Agreement, even if there is no majority in the UK for such legislation. With regard to child protection institutions and the welfare field in general, predictability over time is crucial not only to allow the ideals to operate but also to ensure that the welfare services provided are good. What is about to happen is that market competition may take precedence over the needs of children and young people and the need for employees to know who to deal with and how to deal with their everyday lives both at work and at home. Short-term contracts result in the worst cases in which children and young people living in institutions, as a result of competition and short-term contracts, have to deal unnecessarily with too many different organisations and too many different people during their childhood and youth. It seems that the government is most concerned with getting more commercial players instead of being concerned with the best of the children in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e346	First, I would like to thank the parties that they are now supporting the Left's proposal either primarily or subsidiaryly. It is very nice to note that one gets such feedback. If you treat everyone the same, you treat everyone differently, because everyone has different needs. Rarely is the truth more accurate than when it comes to everyday life, life, children and young people in uncertain care, family and housing situations – children and young people at their most vulnerable. If we are to make it possible to have the same supply-side tailors' room as the individual needs they require, all good forces must be put into use: different public offerings, non-profit organisations, social entrepreneurs and commercial operators. Development has unfortunately gone in the wrong direction. Both non-profit and commercial players have experienced a worsening of the framework in recent years – large and small. Not least, this framework has smaller, private actors heavy – actually ideal actors good as anyone – and the result for many has been either the hall of a major actor, the deterioration or the closure of the offer. Result: less deficiency, less tailoring and more insecurity for those who are in debt. The left is focused on equalizing all actors to reverse this development and ensure that our kids miss out on the forts. A good child protection has been, is and will depend on ideal actors – of course. The left is not willing to put the competence, commitment and offer at stake, so a commitment for us – when we constantly claim that the goal must be to equal all the players – is to find a solution to the pension obligations that the ideals have inherited. I believe that the proposal that the Left makes in the Chamber today takes care of this in a very good way. If the government is now provided with a solution that the ideal actors can live with when it owes the additional costs to it – during 2015 or before the contracts must be concluded in April 2016 – it has the advantage of equalising the field. If this does not take place during this period, the government will be forced by this decision to re-examine a screen for the ideals with four plus two years of contracts, thus giving more time to put the same solution in place. Proposal No. 3 is about long-term, ongoing contracts. The left primarily believes that running contracts are actually the answer, given that it is what undoubtedly ensures security and the long-term manageable frameworks, which are alpha and omega for children and young people in this situation. We choose to keep it a little open and get an assessment from the government before we finally conclude, but we don't doubt that we primarily have my running contracts as the solution. What we also record is that all actors – more or less, whether they are ideal or commercial social entrepreneurs – think it's the best solution. I accept the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e369	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e372	In this debate, it may seem that ideology is taking precedence over the children – the ones involved. The party of progress is too diverse, we're too different – we're all different, we're all different lives, just like the kids do: live different lives. They have different needs, but they're all unique. This is why the Progress Party believes that we also need different offers and diversity – just to ensure diversity. What we're concerned about in society else is that we're actually different, that we choose different things, and then, as an adult, I think this room should take into account that children in a vulnerable situation are different. The most important thing in the area of child protection is just diversity, and in terms of competition, it is not, in fact, that one is necessarily better than the other, precisely because children are different. The right-wing Party Government is clear in its platform that we want free choice of child protection measures after quality assessment. Price has also been a topic for the past few weeks, yes, so it can be quick when you decide that one is the best, and then you might be left without space and have to buy the most expensive, because it's not competition. There is also no competition on quality. The progress party is not in doubt that the ideals provide good services, and that they are important, but I think it is a little strange that the Workers' Party and others are calling for the best public and ideals. It may seem that there are warmer hands there than those who work in private commercial ones. I also believe those people who work with private commercials have care and care for the children they work with. In fact, I think the whole Norwegian people have a great deal of care for them. This is why more players and greater diversity are important. It's at least important in other contexts here in life. To have a break and to cause increased uncertainty about places is the worst one could do. Predictability is important, not least for children. We don't want to risk the kids being out of space, that's what we have to think about. Many questions have been raised about the consequences when such agreements are concluded, and then we have to bring the children with us anyway. Finally, it is our responsibility – and, as the Right Party will, of course, support the Left Subsidiary proposal, which respects our intention to ensure predictability for those concerned, the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e389	SV will praise the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party for a very good proposal, as we put ourselves 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. Protecting the non-profit sector is about several important things. It's about the ability to put quality ahead of price, it's about predictability both for the actors and not least for the many who need their help, and it's about looking at what's going to be a store and not. Exposured young people and young people are not hooligans. SV agrees with the Left that pension is part of the core of the questions here. We know that non-profit actors have opposed the public in terms of pension schemes and levels, and we know that while ideals spend money on real retirement, they maximize their profits, their profits. But to me, it's somewhat unclear what the Left's proposal actually involves. It would have been important to get clarity in it in the Storting today. Is it actually about putting money on the table to compensate for the current imbalance in pension schemes and expenditure, or can you really fear a deterioration in pensions in terms of ideals? SV agrees with the Progress Party when they believe that the warm hands and skills are equally distributed between commercial and ideal. We know that there are good professionals very many places. But we also know that there is a great difference between working conditions, pensions, wages and working time arrangements, and we will not accept savings on the premises of workers. That is why we are opposed to any form of commercialisation. In addition, we believe that contributing to profits for private companies, to child protection barons, is a poor use of money to go to the most vulnerable in a society. I am surprised that the government has so far chosen not to add up to a screened bidding round of serious nature. The Acquisitions Directive of the EU has not been implemented. That is why there are no EU legal reasons why we should not use the space for action, the space for opportunity, which is actually available today. This means that it all becomes a question of whether the government actually wants to give ideal opportunity to participate in tenders by protecting the sector, and again a question of what to be a store, and what to be good criteria for the provision of services that a really vulnerable and vulnerable group needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e401	As I have said before, I have great respect for the competence and experience of NPISHs in the work they do in helping vulnerable children and young people. The non-profit organisations have a high level of involvement and contribute to new solutions and good services. It is important to provide the best possible child protection. My main concern in the area of child protection is the provision of an offer that is best suited to the needs of children and that the measures are of good quality. To achieve this, we need a variety of good actions for the individual child. I would like to remind the assembly that in recent years, half of the institution's seats in child protection purchased by Buffetat have probably been purchased from private actors. Of these, approx. 40 pst. from ideal and approx. 60 pst. from other private actors. So as of today, Bufdir has an agreement for 182 fixed spaces. These are purchased from non-profit actors, and the remainder is purchased from non-profit and private actors through framework agreements and single purchases. There is no indication that there are differences in quality between public and private providers and between commercial and non-profit providers. The government platform states that municipalities should be given greater responsibility for child protection services and be given the right to choose child protection measures freely after an assessment of quality, price and what provides the best possible assistance to individual children, regardless of who delivers the measure. The municipalities have also signaled their desire for greater responsibility and freedom of choice. The government is well in the process of assessing how vulnerable children and young people can get the best possible offer, including the framework conditions to be used for the purchase of services from private actors in the future. In this respect, I have commissioned the Directorate to investigate the consequences of equalising all private actors from whom state child protection buys measures. The investigation will bring me to my table before Christmas. Pending that investigation and the government's own assessment, I, as previously informed, asked the directorate to conduct a protected competition for the purchase of institutional places in child protection reserved for non-profit actors. This is because current contracts cannot be extended beyond 31 January 2015. The contract period is now from 1 February 2015 to 31 March 2016. The contract will then have the same expiry date as the contracts with the other private operators. The closing date for the tender was 15 October of this year, and the law on public acquisitions sets clear limits on changing the competitive conditions. Questions have been raised about the consequences for children and young people in need of institutional services when concluding shorter-term contracts. Staying at an institution is in almost all cases of limited duration. When contracts expire, transitional arrangements are always sought so that children do not move. Sometimes single-challenge arrangements are made for spaces beyond a contractual period in order to maintain the stability of the residence of the individual child. Finding good transitional arrangements to ensure children at the end of contractual periods is a problem that does not depend on the length of the contract. It is a challenge that will always arise when a contract comes to an end. The government looks forward to putting in place the new agreements with the ideal actors from 1 February next year. In addition, we will assess the framework for the next tenders in the light of that study from the Directorate. In future tendering procedures, I will also consider the scope for action and the possibility for the EEA Agreement to meet the wishes of non-profit operators. However, I would like to stress that many of the ideal health and social service providers have a high level of competence, good professional environments and other positive characteristics that make them ideal partners for government. The government is now working to find good measures that can improve the framework conditions of non-profit service providers. We have a recording meeting with the parties to the cooperation agreement right now, and at that meeting, proposals for possible action could be made. The most important thing we can do for children and young people who need an institution space is to ensure that we have services of good quality, regardless of who delivers the places. There is a variety of suppliers offering individual child care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e430	In her statement, the Council of State said that she would facilitate the full non-discrimination of non-profit and commercial actors. Then I have to ask the simple question: If you ignore the historical pension obligations, does the Council see that non-profit actors have specific features that distinguish them from commercial actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e435	As I said in my post, all children are different, and we need different offers for the individual child. The ideal actors have their specialties and their good things that are important to some children, and the private actors have their special areas. Nor should we forget the state institutions, which are also involved in giving a good offer to the individual child. The main issue in this debate must be that every child is always given a customised offer, and then we need both the non-profit organizations, we need the private ones, and we need the state institutions. What's my goal is to make sure that we have enough good, competent institutional places that are adapted to the individual child at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e444	Now the Council of State is talking about the diversity of the offer, and we all agree that we should have diversity in the offer. But the Council of State sees that there are particular features in the way the ideals operate, for example. in the case of employment, working time arrangements, pension provisions, which distinguish them from commercial actors? I ask the Council of State to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e449	The ideal actors have their characteristics, but they also have the commercial and the state. I would like to remind the representative Arild Grande that when the red-greens had the government power, it was also this sheltered tender competition, but we have bought about half of the places that have been used here, from private operators. That's 40 pst. from ideal and 60 pst. from the commercial ones. The commercial has its characteristics, it has its ideals, and it also has the state, and it's important that we recognise all these characteristics, because we need all the institutions to help the individual child at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e456	In the 2015 budget statement by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Government states: ‘The government also wants the scope for the conclusion of long-term and ongoing contracts in public acquisitions to be exploited to ensure good and stable services for users and patients. Increased use of long-term and ongoing agreements will also contribute to a more stable framework for NPISHs providing health and social services.’.» Nevertheless, the same government is now running a bidding round in the protection of children for 14 months. I am aware that this is done in order to have a common expiry date with commercial child protection institutions, but does the Council not see that this short offer is directly contrary to the objective of stable conditions for ideals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e466	We depend on having a long-term perspective for the individual child, and we fully agree that it is important to put it in place. At the same time, I'm sure the children that this applies now will have the stability, the security and the tranquillity they need. What is important, and as I informed the Storting about just after Easter, when we discussed this matter first, is that we had a tender that went out, and the government has been very clear that it wants to look at the possibility of equalising all actors in the Child Protection Service. We want to be able to co-operate with the tendering processes that we are going to launch in 2016. It will give us an opportunity to put in place more long-term and more predictability when we see all the measures together, both the institutional tenders and the other tenders that will be put in place from 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e473	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State states, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is my opinion that it would not be useful to suspend the ongoing competition among non-profit operators now.’» Further: ‘Instead, I will assess the framework for the next tender in the light of ongoing investigations by Bufdir. [[...]] This must mean that, in principle, the Council of State considers the proposals to be good, but that it is the short time limit and that the time limit for the submission of tender documents has expired, which is the main argument for non-compliance with these proposals. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e488	I have informed Stortinget before that we should start a short-term bidding round in order to clarify what we are now going to discuss with the Directorate to equalise all the actors, while also assessing the scope of action within the EU Directive. That tender expired on 15 October, and the Law on Public Acquisitions sets clear limits on changing the assumptions already made in that competition. If I had made the offer that had been made, it would have been – when we arrived at the new year – a child who had been without a contract, without an offer. That is why it is important to put this short offer in place. Then the government will assess which criteria will underlie the next tender, which we will publish when we arrive at the new year. I am also very pleased with the proposal that has come from the Left, which it is important to bring with it and look at when we are going to discuss this and get new tendering procedures in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e495	The representative of Bergstø expressed concerns about the way the Left would address the pension cost issue. For the Left, it is obvious that the state must contribute heavily. I expect the Council of State can now confirm that it is an opinion that she and the government share, and can say a little about how it works to find solutions to the pension problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e501	I have also registered that SV was concerned about this. Now it is that both the SV and the Workers' Party have been in power for eight years, and the pension costs have not come right now; it has been a challenge for the previous government as well. I am very concerned that we should be able to put in place a system for this, and I know that it is an important thing for the ideals – and right now I also know that there are meetings between the collaborators on this topic. I can assure the representative from the left that this is something that the government is actively working on trying to find a solution, so that we can get a much better basis for all the actors when one is going to enter a tendering process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e508	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e513	In this case, Stortinget discusses the nature of the procurement rules to be applied to services in the field of child protection. Before discussing how to purchase child protection services, a question should be asked: What is the objective of the non-profit sector in the health and welfare field in general and the field of child protection in particular? Do we want them, or is it just the same who produces the services? The Hagen selection, in its provisioning Innovation in care, meant that it is of great value that the voluntary/ideal sector is a welfare service provider: ‘The Committee considers that social value creation should be provided both in the form of non-governmental organisations and actions and new forms of user co-operation in a significantly larger space and levers in operation and in the future development of care and welfare systems. By 2020, an estimated 25 % of the overall care sector should be organised and run as non-profit institutions serving households. Today, this proportion is barely 5 %. The Committee believes that it would be healthy for the sector to get more actors who, on an ideal basis and as part of community solutions, are freer to find new ways and solutions, to do new work and to strengthen innovation and development in the field of care. In this way, one will also invite participation and participation and stimulate voluntary engagement and citizenship.’» The selection pointed to the basics: We need to set ourselves a goal of voluntary and non-profit organisations in the health and welfare sector in Norway. If this objective is clear, the good purchasing arrangements will be put in place. If we don't have such a common understanding of what the goal is, the discussion about purchasing becomes little fruitful, but the more demanding. The centre party thinks it's urgent to take action to secure their ideal feature in the child protection field. Today we have a situation where there is a great difference in contract length. In the drugs field, the government enters into longer contracts with ideal providers. But in the field of child protection, contracts have been announced for a little over a year. It is incomprehensible that the same government is leading such a different policy towards the non-profit sector. The question is what the government has against ideal actors before child protection, since the length of the contract is so short.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e529	All of them first: I record that both the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to attack the Christian People's Party in order to have a greater focus on their own ideology than on what is best for children. I just want to say that as far as the ideology of the Christian People's Party is concerned, it involves a very strong civil society, a civil society that escapes from various actors who can contribute to solving important welfare tasks. Suspecting the fight for the non-profit sector, for ideal actors in the welfare society, is at best a gross misunderstanding. For the Christian People's Party, these cases are not primarily about the law of public acquisitions and tendering rules and competition. For the Christian People's Party it is about that we have, and have had for many years, ideal actors who contribute with their good services in our welfare society. We believe it is important that these services should also be available for us in the future, for our children, our parents, for children who need help, who need a place to live or treat, for the elderly, for people with drug problems, with mental problems. The important thing is not free competition; the important thing is to find ways in which the public can provide these services and pay the ideals for this work. Political organization and political will are needed to do so, and we are very pleased with all the political parties on the Grand Duchy who see this, and who will do so. Today, the Left shall be praised for helping to ensure that some ideals can last a little longer. An overall increase agrees that we want non-profit actors to contribute with their services and that they should be given good conditions. The size and government — at least the Ministry of Health — agree that a certain length of tendering will give both parties predictability and stability. In the vote, a joint committee says that it is important to ensure that ideals can continue their work. If the different actors operate on equal terms, they will rapidly compete with the ideals. If the government parties and the majority of the population continue to insist that competition should be the driving force instead of political priorities, the Christian People's Party fears that good offers are being made, that professionals with long experience and important competences are being given up. Finally, if ideal actors disappear, I'm afraid that Norwegian society is going to be a lot poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e540	All the voluntary and non-profit actors who enjoyed the Health Declaration, who talked about how many times volunteering was mentioned in the Government Declaration, must feel quite disappointed this day. Because it was only in the Sundvolden Declaration that the government parties were occupied by the volunteers. Now we hear representatives of the government parties say that it is not crucial who delivers, it is said that it is impossible to prioritize one supplier group in front of another. There is something quite different than what was said in the Sundvolden statement. And there was something quite different that was said in the campaign, when you had a touching care for the ideal actors. The long-term needs of children are now set aside for a system where you have to get the ideal and private to compete at the same time. Therefore, a 14-month tender is appropriate. There won't be a long-term for those kids then. Then I think it is quite eye-catching when it is said that this is a matter of ensuring that the children get the best offer. It is strange that Højres Harberg more than suggests that we are desperate when we now propose what we are doing, when his colleague in the Ministry of Health has published long-term agreements. Who is it that is right? Is it possible, or is it wrong, what the Ministry of Health is doing in relation to the EEA Agreements? The Council of State should have noticed that there is actually a majority in the Grand Duchy for the long-term agreements, and should have ensured that a 14-month bid is not put out, which is now problematic to deal with. So I want to say something about the proposal from the left. It states that there should be a plan for the historical post-employment benefit obligations that have been required in the past. How long is that story? Are they the ones who were while the county was running child protection? Is it all of the agreements concluded up to now? I expect that the Council of State should be able to clarify, as one is now meeting with the volunteers, how many have documented those requirements. I think there are very few, because at the time that the agreements were concluded – earlier, while the county council was responsible – no one focused on pension costs in the same way. So I think the proposal that the left here is promoting will include very, very few ideals, and the number of ideal suppliers disappears just as quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e549	Now my post was a little different than I had thought, as one got such a powerful closure from the previous representative. I have to say that I think it is a little regrettable that a well-reading proposal in that way, with that kind of glasses, when it applies to a matter as important as this in itself is. I have great respect for the previous representative, given that we have different views about private solutions because of different ideological positions. But if the President allows it, I can remember both the representative Rigmor Aasrud and, to the extent that Kirsti Bergstø – who was in the same room, and who took a little detail with what she chose to call "child protection barons" – that a main reason for that today, for example. have seen an emergence of the large private players, and that they are the winners, are precisely an offer- and not least a contract regime under the red-green government that fed the private players with what I choose to call housekeeper contracts. It was about framework contracts, where the number of places, e.g. could be that a full time should have 20 places at its disposal, and then there is never a covering of more than six to seven at best, in parallel with professional competence requirements that exceed the requirements they imposed on public institutions. And worst of all, the kids never got contracts for more than a maximum of six months. That means that children in such an institution, at the most vulnerable in life, when they ask those who work there about how long they should be, get the answer: I'm sorry, I don't know, but at least you're going to be here for another four months. This is what they are now seeing, and what they are now standing here on this pulpit and criticising.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e556	I must admit that I am very disturbed when I hear the rhetoric from the government parties in this matter. The representative Harberg emphasizes that he thinks it is illogical to distinguish between the ideals and the commercial ones. This shows that one wants a level playing field between the ideals and the commercial ones, and that one really wants it to get started as quickly as possible. It limits the possibility of the ideals to prepare for the new competition, all the time we know that there are proposals here for which one can go, which will provide the necessary time both to get the pension obligations out and to carry out a work that prepares the ideals for a rather tough competition. Furthermore, the Council of State cannot even answer the simple question when she is challenged twice in the change of lines, if she sees that there are particular features of the ideals that differ from the commercial ones. It shows me very clearly, at least, that there is no understanding in the government parties that such a peculiarity exists. I think there are particularly two issues that need to be challenged in this debate. One is about the pension challenges of the non-profits. Of course, there must be a solution if there is to be any real competition at all. I believe that there is nothing in the way that the government can have a process that can solve these challenges for the ideals, whether you choose to go for the proposal that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have put forward in this matter. There has never been any evidence that this would have prevented the government from doing that work. So there can only be ideological reasons why you choose to accept such a proposal, and that you want open competition to be welcomed as early as possible. The second is that I sincerely believe that the ideals have characteristics that differ from the commercial ones, among other things. in the case of compensation of employees, as ideals have a high degree of fixed employment, while commercial operators do not. In the future, if there is to be real competition on a level playing field, tenders must also have such a device within the EU procurement directive that it is possible for the ideals to compete against the commercial ones. If the government is not concerned that there is such a special feature of the ideals, I fear that it will never be included in the tenders either. That's what we're now concerned about, that we're getting some answers from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e567	I see no reason to doubt Mr Breivik's intention with regard to the proposal on pensions, and I thank you for clarifying the proposal. On the other hand, I did not feel that the Council's response to Breivik's challenges was equally clear. Therefore, I would like to ask if the Council of State can guarantee that the Left's proposal will not involve any pressure on wages or working conditions or any form of impairment of pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e572	Part of this debate is quite easy to deal with. It goes on what an ideal wants. When Arild Grande is clear that he wants the share of private suppliers in this area down, he will, he stands for it, and we can respect that. So we say there's no important goal for us, we want good services. What gets weird to me is everyone who gets caught up in this 14-month contract as if it were just like the world in the babysitting offer in the future. All have totally disregarded the fact that a majority in this session has refused to continue with sheltered bids for the ideals. This is a consequence, and it is that you have to have a shorter offer in order to have a common time to re-publish the offer. The alternative if the government were to follow up the bulk of the population – and that is what it is supposed to do – was to take the ideal places to which the contract was now awarded and to lighten them into the open market, i.e. a competition between the ideals and the other private people about the places to be re-offered. I am absolutely sure that it does not want either the Christian People's Party or the others. But if the government's going to follow the decision of big business, that's what it has to do. Having a 14-month contract so that there is a common outcome for the whole group, there will still be open competition between the ideals and the private in all those places. That's a good solution. I find it strange to get criticism of a follow-up to the decision to roll out. Then Rigmor had a little visit about the time, i.e. this about going in for long term, as the Health Committee did. It did it at a completely different time. To do it quite apart from the fact that new legislation comes into force, we know from other things is a completely different situation than doing it several years in advance. Other cases have ended up with the ESA case where one has been convicted for not being allowed. This creates uncertainty for the sites and for the offer. We in the Right have no faith in the ideals. We have no faith that they will be the losers in an open tender. We think they're going to deliver just as well and just as varied and be just as good contributors. As previously said, we need all the places – and unfortunately, probably more in the time to come. There are sketches on the table as to how to solve the pension costs, the historical pension costs. It's going to be exciting to see if we can find a good solution for that, and I know that it's actively working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e585	The President will note that references to co-representatives are made by title and surname.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e588	It was the representative of Breivik who made me take the floor again. Since we entered the government offices in 2006, there has been a significant decrease in the purchase of services from private actors in child protection, from around 190 000 to 140 000 days of residence. There's been a crazy policy on our part, which I think is right. It's not that we don't think we should interact with either private or non-profit organisations. I think the representative Breivik could have accepted my question a little more constructively, because the proposal presented today from the Left could have been interesting for us to be able to assess. But then we have to know a little bit more about what to add to that proposal. What is a historical pension cost? Is this all the ideals that have been agreed on today? Will it apply to those who have lost their agreements? Is there any time limit for how far back you should go? Would a public call be required before entering the class to assess its costs? There are quite important questions when considering being involved in such a case. If we were to participate in the proposal from the Left, and there was to be support for it in Stortingen, we would well have written off the possibility of getting back to the matter, because then it would not be possible to take it up again during this period. Therefore, I think it would have been nice if the representative Breivik could have explained a little more about what is actually being put into this, possibly representatives from the government parties, who are clearly informed about a work that is going on in the government, and which we would also have been interested in knowing something more about in order to take a decision on that very question. I am aware that these are demanding questions to find solutions to. It was for the red-green government, and it is now. These are really important points I'm dealing with right now, and I hope you can be constructive and share some of the information you're sitting with in the negotiations when we're going to deal with such an important issue here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e598	When I take the floor now, it is because it may seem that the Labour Party representative Grande has an ideology that is strong, and I fully respect it. There's no doubt that we have different ideologies. Government lots are occupied by those who receive the offers, and not by those who deliver them. We're busy with the user. These are the children we're concerned about, and not the name of the supplier. The representative of Aasrud took a hard time, and she thinks it's spectacular what the government parties say. It is possible that we have expressed ourselves somewhat unclear in the debate. The representative also referred to the government platform, that both volunteers and ideals might have been disappointed. The representative Aasrud referred to the platform of the government parties, and I can quote from there if you haven't read the whole. It says the government will: ‘Give municipalities the right to choose child protection measures freely, after an assessment of quality, price and what gives the best assistance to each child, irrespective of who delivers the measure.’ So it's not surprising that we're doing what we're doing. It would be strange if it were like this in other competitions, in sports, for example, that someone got a advantage – that we pick it with red shorts instead of it with blue shorts, or that in a 60-metre race a few 20 meters ahead, and some start at zero. We're engaged in equal competition, even starting point, and those that have the best quality and price are the ones we're going to use. We're busy with the kids. It may not be unclear, but if it is still unclear, I can probably give a brief comment on it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e614	The representative of Terje Breivik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e617	It is brutally small when speaking time is involved, but I will try to answer what the representative Aasrud is asking for. That's precisely why there must be a dialogue, negotiations, with the debts, the ideals, and that's why it's an opening because if this doesn't fit, the government is required to light up a screen for the ideals. There is the insurance cost of Stortinget in this. It would be quite impossible, and of course, the representative Aasrud also knows, for Stortinget to go down to the level of detail when to enter into negotiations with actors, and where the state says one is willing to spit in quite a lot of money. Then there must be a two-way communication. I am confident that the government will take care of this, and if not, there are really braking possibilities in the proposal that the Left has now put on the table. So I want to end by saying: without private idealists, we would not have had a welfare state today. We're content to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e626	Then the time is up, so we'll get back to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e629	I would like to start by saying that I fully agree with the Christian People's Party in describing the ideals. We are totally dependent on the ideals, and the ideal organisations and volunteering in Norway are part of the glue in society – which makes it go around. The state cannot take over all tasks, so we depend on having non-profit activities and volunteering that can help and help solve good societal tasks. This government is committed to having good framework conditions for the volunteers and the ideals because they are important actors that we need. When I hear this debate, it sounds like only ideal actors can run good child protection institutions today. I would like to remind you that we have many good state child protection institutions, and we have many good private commercial institutions – which have their own characteristics, as the representative of Arild Grande was. If it is just the ideals that are capable of delivering, and that have these special features, I wonder why not the Workers' Party has purchased more services from the ideals. It is important that we have ideal actors with their characteristics and that we have private actors with their characteristics. They have different tours, different working conditions and different methods. There's this diversity you need for the individual child. I also register that the vice-president of SV now goes out and says that the trade union movement really needs to look at how the private operators operate with regard to the tournaments. By putting this offer in place now – we are adding up to an overall tendering process – the portfolio of places from 2016 will be put together so that the offer is even better adapted to the different target audiences of children and young people. This also means that an offer of good quality can be offered to each child, which is sufficiently differentiated and adapted to different needs. That's my main goal. As Minister for Children, I will ensure that every child in Norway who needs help is offered at all times. I have great faith that the ideal organisations will deliver good offers in the further process, because they have good services and good quality. Then I'm absolutely sure they're going to join us and provide services at the level we have today, and also at a higher level – because we're going to need help for children who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e642	The representative of Arild Grande has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e645	It's an important ideological debate we're in the middle of, and you learn a lot about the party positions through what's being said. It is particularly interesting to hear that Morten Stordalen believes that the short deadline for tenders has been put into effect for the sake of the children. It was new, and it was interesting. I understand very well the position of the Left, and I appreciate that the Left is looking to solve the situation and challenges for the ideal actors. We will nevertheless vote against, and that is based on two considerations: I fear, first of all, that this is a filibuster tactics on the part of the government parties. We know very little about the position of the government parties. The whole process is completely undecided, and we may lose valuable time making the train go away before we get active grips that secure the ideals of a new regime. The second is that we want a room for action to come back to the matter. By voting in favour of this proposal, we are losing this space of action as a magnification. We will also lose the opportunity to influence the handling of both pension costs and the tendering regime within the new EU procurement directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e656	The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e659	I do not know if I was unclear in my previous post, but it is important for SV that all aspects of the case are illuminated. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to answer my question as to whether it is possible to guarantee that the Left's proposal would not involve any pressure on pay and employment or the weakening of pension schemes. This is about the answer to such a question being crucial to what SV thinks about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e669	I think we all know that agreements that the individual has at his or her place of work are something you have with your employer. I don't intend to stand here and guarantee anything to SV's representative Bergstø, but what I can guarantee at Stortinget is that the decision that is being made here today, and the proposal that the Left has put forward, I will do what I can to follow up as the Council of State in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e675	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e689	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e696	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. We have agreed in the committee that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes. So we all have the same conclusion, but on the way, we focus on that argument a little bit differently. In the meantime, I want to focus most on the majority's reasons, but will of course come up with what an overall committee is behind. This proposal for a representative proposes a major restructuring of child protection, whereby large parts of the state part are transferred to the county. There are challenges in child protection today, and some of them are also due to the organisation, which the Council of State has warned that they are working with. The aim of the work on child protection is an even better child protection, with more children receiving help in a timely manner. That's what we need to be aware of when we're going to make changes, including in the organization. In response to the Storting, the Council of State has explained the work that is now under way, with a major review of the structure of child protection. Important parties such as municipalities, trade unions and other relevant actors are already involved in the work. The work is based on the ambitious proposals of the Sundvolden Declaration for changes and improvements in child protection. There are in particular three important points: giving municipalities the right to choose child protection measures after an assessment of quality, price and what gives the best help to each child, irrespective of who delivers the measure, that municipalities with the necessary competence can be given a full professional and financial responsibility for the provision of child protection services, and ensuring transparency of the content, quality and price of child protection services. There is agreement in the Committee that there is a need for a new review of the division of responsibilities and responsibilities in the field of child protection, and that a high level of municipal responsibility is important. This is naturally linked to the major reform work now being done in Kommune-Norway in order to meet tomorrow's welfare challenges. If the municipalities are to have more tasks, they must be robust enough to be able to solve them in a quality manner. Today, this is not the case across the country. However, it is a municipality that already has the whole chain of measures, and it is Oslo. A conversion must be carried out over time, but I am glad that the Council of State warns that some large and medium-sized municipalities will have the opportunity to try the new organisation. These are important experimental activities, which, together with Oslo’s experience, will provide important information for the necessary changes. It is important that municipalities, those who work closest to adults and children who are affected, are given even more responsibility and opportunity to see the whole of their work. At the same time, strong trade unions will be important to support and cooperate with municipalities in the future. Changes and conversion processes are necessary, but they can also bring with them uncertainty and a sense of not being heard by those affected. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State announces an inclusive process, in which trade unions, organisations and other stakeholders are allowed to participate. The Committee has also been aware that the government must ensure that the protection of children in this migration process does not lose its competence and that all those concerned are respected. Seeing children and families in need of early help and taking timely and adapted measures, preferably before children are subjected to care failure, must be the overall objective of our work on prevention and child protection. Experience from a tough childhood puts its mark on the body and in the psyche, and someone never experiences being allowed to grow up. Let these be the final words of this article, and let our goal of all changes be that more children don't grow up with these scars, that more children are seen early, and that more families get help to move on without family life looking like living in a war zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e724	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation. Proposals seek to strengthen child protection through a new organisational model and make several suggestions on how this can be done. Like the proposers, we are committed to developing child protection that provides children with professionally correct help, and equally important: that help comes as early as possible. That there are challenges in child protection today, there is no doubt about it. However, a new organisation within the county community has little faith that will be what is needed now. Experience shows that major shifts are demanding, that during periods of time a lot of energy will agree to carry out the process itself, and that many people involved will experience uncertainty. Child protection has been through major conversion processes and, as many others have learned, it takes time to make the new one work. We therefore believe that the time has not come to initiate a new reorganization now. It is now more important to further develop the regional model in order to ensure good action and provision for children in need of specialised skills. It is then important that child protection has strong professional environments, and in our opinion, the organisation that is established facilitates it. When these environments are strong, municipal services can receive greater support and the assistance needed from specialist services. This does not mean that everything is in place in child protection now, but then work and energy must be spent on improving what is not working – not on new reorganisation processes. Also FO is skeptical of a reorganization now and believes that reversing the process that is in progress will damage. We agree with that in the Workers' Party. FO pointed out in the hearing that they were concerned about today's situation, where the state part is built up before the municipalities have built up their own, and they were concerned about the quality. We should listen to that. The FO also points to the importance of clarifying the statutory tasks of municipalities and considers that sufficient resources are more important than a new restructuring. In all these transitions, we have to take care of the competence. Getting good models of cooperation between state and municipal child protection must be a priority. The fact that the municipalities have more responsibility has been agreed upon. At the same time, cooperation for some of the small municipalities is important. Although we do not support the proposed reorganisation, we must, of course, continue to work to find the best solutions. We must always be looking to be better, and of course it is especially important in a service aimed at those children who are totally dependent on society. The best way to make the best possible offer is, and must be, the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e741	I would like to congratulate the Central Party on their commitment to child protection policy, although unfortunately they are not represented in the family and cultural committee. The Christian People's Party will vote for this proposal to be annexed to the Minutes, because the Council of State has announced a comprehensive review of the structure of child protection. We agree with the need for a review. In addition, the proposers point to some other important elements. They point to the municipal self-financing of institutions. The Christian People's Party is also concerned about this and has warned against any negative effects of increased self-esteem. The Christian People's Party also agrees with the Centre Party on the need to clarify the division of responsibilities and tasks in the protection of children. Switching to another relevant theme in the field of child protection. Governments often say that the best interests of the child and not of those who make the offers are essential. Of course, we agree that every child should have the offer exactly what the child needs, when it needs it. That is the very purpose of the Child Protection Act. But it's interesting that this comes in response when we discuss how to facilitate the ideal actors. We all know that the only people who have a different side view of their operation than the best possible offer to the child are private actors who do not operate on an ideal basis. Of course, all non-ideal private players must make a profit. It is a prerequisite for commercial operations. There's nothing mysterious or wrong about it, it's an honest thing, but these are owners who must have a profit. It's not like that with the ideals. It's only about giving the best possible offer to the individual child. We do not risk using public welfare funds for anything other than good welfare services when the public chooses to use non-profit actors. That's a point that I think deserves to be mentioned. The Christian People's Party believes it is good with a variety of actors in the Norwegian welfare community. We want public actors, we want ideal and other private actors. There are also many good private actors in child protection who do not operate on a non-profit basis, but there are also commercial actors that we have read about in the newspapers recently, who make a lot of money selling child protection services to the public. We are many who react when we read that hundreds of millions of dollars granted by the Storting for child protection services end up as private profits. It's an honest thing that private actors have to make money, but I'm very happy that committee leader Harberg has been clear that there's a need for a review to look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e758	We, who support the proposal to strengthen child protection through a new organisational model, are pleased to note that we are supported by our desire to go through the structure of child protection and the proposal to strengthen the responsibilities of municipalities. Both the Committee and the Council of State share these assessments. The problem is that there is little willingness to discuss the solutions that can provide disadvantaged young people with better and more holistic services. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that the municipalities ‘should be given real primary responsibility for the protection of children’. I look forward to the great review of the structure of child protection, as the Council of State warns. Reference is made to the Sundvolden Declaration, which places great emphasis on greater freedom to compete in child protection. I would warn against this being given the main focus in the government's work. We already have a large part of private institutions in the field of child protection, and it is not that child protection services call for more freedom to compete. The centre party believes that the county councils must once again play a greater role in the protection of children. Today, municipalities have several state institutions as unclear partners. Bufdir, Bufetat and County are all subject to the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. There is, when it is true to say, great doubt as to whether the reform we implemented only in the 2000s has responded to expectations. In its letter, the Council of State shows that the lack of assistance from the county councils to the municipalities was a central reason for the reform. I guess there was a lack of cost control that was the reason. The question is whether the Council of State is right when she believes that everything is so much better now. I don't have the impression. I have the impression that the municipalities and the users feel the opposite. Lack of cooperation and state override of municipal decisions are some of the feedback I get. If the county councils had taken over this, there would be a better dialogue and more equivalent cooperation between the two partners. I see that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee puts its trust in the government's municipal reform to eliminate the small-scale operating disadvantages of the smallest municipalities in solving complex and complex professional challenges in the area of child protection. Community reform is now making the solution to most of the governance and coordination challenges we face in society. This is just an excuse to push the challenges ahead. Major municipalities will neither provide more resources nor improve the management of our welfare services. Especially when we see that users are most satisfied with child protection services in the smallest municipalities, this looks a little strange. A municipal structure that sets the target of a municipality having a minimum of 15 000-20000 inhabitants, as foreseen, will not solve many child protection challenges. The strong emergence of inter-municipal cooperation has already contributed to the well-managed management of small-scale problems in the field of child protection. In addition, large municipalities also have difficulties in fulfilling their role in the field of child protection, including: as guidance for foster homes and by making resources available for relief. Large municipalities also complain that Bufetat is reviewing municipal decisions. The take-over of the tasks currently added to Bufatat, such as the establishment and quality assurance of institutional premises, requires larger units than could be the result of the government's municipal reform. The natural partner of the municipalities in this case will be the counties. I and the other proposers behind Document 8 believe it is unfortunate when the state is currently responsible for both the operation, supervision and control of child protection. There are different stations, Buffedir, Buffetat and County, where there can easily be a mix of roles. The principle of ‘arm length distance’ is poorly respected in today’s organisation of state child protection. In Document 8 we launch a management model that the Centre believes will strengthen child protection: firstly, we stress that the statutory responsibilities of the municipalities are continued and strengthened by clarifying the division of tasks with regional child protection authorities. Secondly, we propose that the tasks of Bufetat be transferred to the county. Thirdly, we propose that the Buffdir should be laid down, so that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion should be given overall responsibility as legislator, budgetary officer and organiser of control and supervisory tasks. Fourthly, we believe that the role of the County State as the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion should be continued. I bring this up with proposal No. 1, made available to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e779	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e782	First of all, I would like to say that it is very positive that the Centre Party is taking the initiative in a discussion of clear responsibilities and better organisation. We have put great effort into improving child protection, improving the provision and care of the most vulnerable in society. For SV, it is important, and it has always been important, to strengthen child protection. It's about knowing that a good childhood lasts a lifetime, and that there's far more to repair than prevention, both for individuals and for society. Therefore, it is also essential that we succeed in organising child protection for the benefit of the users, for the young. I myself, before being elected to Stortinget, had the pleasure of working in the Child Protection Service in a small municipality and seen both joys and challenges in close proximity. Even though we've done a lot, everything is far from perfect. I think there are very constructive debates that the centre party is drawing up, and we in SV are absolutely open to look at many of them. However, we do not support the proposal now, but we look forward to entering into a debate at a later stage on future organisation. We know that there is a lot of knowledge at the bottom of it, and we believe that this is absolutely an important topic that we look forward to coming back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e791	Like the proposers, I think it is necessary to look at the organisation of child protection, and I agree that it is important that we strengthen the responsibilities of municipalities towards child protection. The government wants a clearer sharing of responsibilities in child protection. The changes must meet today's challenges. At the same time, we must avoid creating new challenges. Bufetate, which is the state level of child protection, is responsible for assisting municipalities with the placement of children in foster homes and institutions. They also cover a large part of the costs of out-of-home placements. Bufetate was established as a result of the 2004 administrative reform of child protection. Before the administrative reform, the county council was responsible for the tasks that Bufetat has today. There were several reasons why the State took over tasks from the county. The action apparatus was, among other things: too poorly developed, and there were considerable differences between county municipalities. I consider it not appropriate to return the tasks to the county council. The administrative reform was evaluated in 2011 and the evaluation showed that the measure had improved, and regional differences had decreased even with this reform, but the evaluation also showed that we still have challenges between the municipal and state levels of child protection. In other words, today's division of responsibilities in child protection is not unproblematic. Responsibilities between the State and the municipality were discussed in Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013, as the Stortinget dealt with in spring 2013. The responsibilities and roles of the State and the municipality were clarified and changes were made to the funding mechanism for child protection. The government wants to further develop and strengthen the leadership given in Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013 on clear responsibilities between State and municipality and increased municipal financial responsibility. This is happening in parallel with the investigation of a new structure for a more appropriate allocation of responsibility for the task and funding of child protection between the state and the municipality. I am particularly concerned that prevention and early intervention are more important in the work of vulnerable children and families. The proximity of the municipality and the broad knowledge of the child and the situation of the child are important in order for each child to receive proper assistance in a timely manner. Increased professional and financial responsibilities will also enable municipalities to establish measures to prevent a child from being placed away from home. It could also provide stronger incentives for municipalities to critically assess and evaluate the assistance provided to the individual child. More local measures can also allow more children to grow up in their own community. We have many challenges with small municipalities. In some places it is down to one to three employees in the field of child protection. A new municipal structure will lead to larger and more robust child protection services, with better conditions to discharge overall responsibilities. At the same time, we must be aware that some of the child protection services are aimed at a small number of children. Some tasks are small in scale, but good task-solving requires specialised competence and a strong professional environment. The provision of institutions is an example of this, and so is foster care. We know that the Health Authority and the National Audit Office have revealed a lack of child protection in many municipalities. It is therefore important to have structures that can counteract vulnerability in municipalities. There is a need for a second line service in the field of child protection. A second line service may provide support and compensation for the lack of competence and capacity of each municipality, but the activities of the second line service must be based on demand from municipalities. We also need a strong professional directorate to promote the professional development of child protection and to help reduce differences in quality between municipalities. I do not think it is appropriate to lay down Bufdir and transfer the directorate's tasks to the ministry, as proposed here. On the other hand, I agree that it is important to avoid a mix of roles. There is a need for a clear distinction between the directorate's responsibility for the operation of Bufetat and the role of a professional body. I want to put forward a bill on new responsibilities in the protection of children during this ageing period. I would also like to suggest that the changes need to be implemented in ways that ensure predictability for employees and not least for the children and families receiving assistance from child protection. I also want new organisation to be tested in the form of experimental activities in some municipalities before it is implemented. Experimental activities will provide important experience and a better basis for ensuring good change processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e823	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e826	When we discuss how to organise child protection, I think we're all very concerned about the best of children. Having safe employees when you're working with children, I think it's one of the most important prerequisites to also provide good child protection. In its reply to the committee, State Council Horne writes that the government will provide the municipalities with: «the right to choose child protection measures freely, after an assessment of quality, price and what gives the best assistance to the individual child, irrespective of who delivers the measure». We hear more often and more about individuals operating individual enterprises, who are involved in child protection. In our opinion, it does not create great stability, and then my question is to Horne: What do the Council of State think should be taken into account in terms of employment conditions and working conditions for those who work in the field of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e837	I am concerned that those who work in child protection should have good working conditions and good employment. It is also up to individual employers to make sure. The state is a good and large employer for employees in the state child-restraint, and then, when we are about to start a structural change in child-restraint, it is important that the conversion is done in close cooperation with employees and organisations. I am very pleased that the work that we have started has already had a good meeting with the KS, and we have also had several meetings with the actors and organisations to get an idea of how this change can be done in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e842	I thank you for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State is engaged in good employment for the employees. Then is my follow-up question: if it is true that there is a development now that more and more individuals are involved in child protection, which gives a very unstable, one must in and out, then the Council of State will take the initiative that the type of bonding to those who are going to work will not be the way we should go, but fixed employment, so that we get the stability we are looking for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e847	I am also aware that there are some actors who are engaged in contract work and not in regular employment. It must be up to each employer to organise their employees. However, it is a bit of the same debate that we had in the previous case – it is important that we as the contracting entity have good tenders, good criteria and good processes in this work, and that we take care of the individual employer in this way in the light of the ideal, private or state actors who will be involved in and contribute in this. I can't go into the individual's employment with regard to the private actors, but what's my main concern is that we ensure that we always have good institutions and good foster homes for the individual children when we need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e854	The main reason for the change made in 2004 when the regional child protection tasks were transferred from the county to Bufetat was a lack of cost control. Can the Council of State report on developments on the cost side over the last ten years, and is the Council satisfied with the cost developments that have taken place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e859	No, I'm not happy with that. The evaluation report we received in 2011 on national and municipal child protection clearly showed that we have major challenges. It also showed that there was little control over the financial costs after the reform. That's why I started the change that we're now going to make. That's also why Stortinget has unanimously said that Buffetat has to put in place a better cost control than what they have had. Buffetat now works to get control of these costs, as Stortinget has asked them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e864	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e880	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e887	Thanks to the Committee for the work on the matter, and although the matter appears to be annexed to the Minutes, the proposal for a representative we are examining is immediately being heard. Requests are made to improve the economic environment for organisational cultural buildings by providing VAT compensation for new buildings, buildings or other real estate. Furthermore, a separate grant scheme is also proposed for the same buildings, within the already existing decentralised scheme for local and regional cultural buildings. The VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations was established in 2010. Now in 2014, the plan is of 1.2 billion. kr. This shows that the scheme is already in the process of significantly improving the framework conditions for volunteering through a significant contribution from the country to the voluntary. The current scheme is relatively simple, the individual team or organisation is looking for, and no further reporting is necessary. Current arrangements provide for VAT compensation for expenditure relating to the maintenance of existing buildings in force. When the scheme was set up, it was considered that new buildings and upgrades in addition to today’s standard would not be compensated, as this would be linked to an excessive share of the funds and thus affect other activities in the voluntary sector. It has also become clear that today's system is under pressure. The scheme for VAT compensation for installations was introduced at the time of the red-green government in 2010, and the scheme itself makes it somewhat unpredictable to the applicants. The red-green government reduced its 2014 budget proposal by 8 million. kr. to 55 million. kr., and even after the government of Solberg increased the budget by 10 million. kr., it turns out to be a sub-coverage. Variations in the number and size of finished installations challenge budgeting. We in the right are therefore pleased that the government announces that together with the sport they will consider an adjustment to the rules of the scheme. So part two of the proposal. A separate grant scheme under the decentralised scheme for local and regional cultural buildings is requested. It is a county responsibility to manage this. The grants may be granted to different cultural buildings and may be used for conversion and upgrade, but not for maintenance or operation. Signals that we have received indicate that the scheme may have different application in different states, and we will see if a review of practice is necessary, even if the main impression is that the scheme is working properly. The conclusion is that a two-fold division of the current system of grants for organisational cultural construction is not desirable, as it will result in less flexibility. Furthermore, we know that both the current government and the previous government have been committed to strengthening the VAT compensation scheme for voluntary activities. Work on it continues, but it is most important to complete the current scheme before incorporating new elements into the scheme. It will then be a hollow out if we extend it with new buildings, building or conversion beyond today's standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e898	I should like to begin by commending the proposers. We need to put the search light on all parts of the volunteer work. We need to look at trends and challenges in line with the evolution of society. The initiative reminds us of an important piece of all the important local work that serves as a meeting place in our society. According to the last cultural study, in 2013, a big message was produced in 1949, which is referred to as ‘the first cultural communication in Norway’. A public support programme for youth organisations and communities was outlined. This was followed by a grant scheme for a large-scale expansion of community houses. The houses were intended to serve as arenas for local amateur cultural activities, but also as dissemination venues for national culture. Societies became important for local cultural life, and between 1950 and 1987 grants were granted for the construction of 763 community houses, and also through the use of typing funds. In the 1990s, a number of regional cultural houses were built, and this has continued in the 2000s. With it a new nationwide cultural infrastructure has been established next to the community buildings. Cultural buildings are often larger and more expensive than community buildings and designed to meet increased demands for professional stage and performance facilities. Organisational cultural buildings continue to play an important role in many communities, including alongside new cultural houses. The proposers wish to strengthen the contribution of the large-scale society to the organisational aspects of cultural buildings by extending the current VAT compensation scheme to include new, new, added and refurbishment costs for buildings, installations and other immovable property, but also through a separate grant scheme for organisationally-owned cultural buildings within the current decentralised grant scheme. As far as the VAT compensation system is concerned, we in the Labour Party, like the rapporteur, do not see any grounds for extending it. We can't see that the time has come to change the device of this system, with the experience we have so far since its introduction in 2010. The grant scheme itself is currently decentralised and therefore provides a basis for decentralised policy priorities. In this way, local preferences and choices and coordination can help us to achieve the best common development, providing the financial resources at all times available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e919	The proposal of the Centre Party reveals a challenge for the organisations-led cultural houses. But this isn't a challenge that's new. It was also present and known to many of us in the previous period, when the Center Party was part of the government. What have not the local houses done for local communities, volunteering and culture around the municipalities? Well, everyone sitting here is completely in agreement that without them there would have been a bad deal of activity in the voluntary sector. The houses it's about are the house of the peasants, well-houses, gyms, youth houses, warehouses, prayer houses, the house of the people, the Red Cross, ski-rooms – yes, I'm not sure if I've come to everyone, there is probably more. Now we even have large high-quality cultural houses, with practice rooms and concert halls of several sizes. These houses compete for the same money. These houses compete for the same users. These houses compete for renting out their premises and making money on it. It is clear that this must be a challenge for the county councils. This will be a challenge for the municipalities, and it will be a challenge for the state, as we have got this on the table today. What can the State do, what can the county authorities do, and what can the municipalities do to improve the framework conditions? The solution may be to discuss the number of houses, the solution may be to make it easier with the VAT compensation schemes – also to maintain the buildings and to deduct them. I don't think the solution alone is that we allocate the funds we have to more posts, but that we go deep on the challenges. As you know, there is a lot of money allocated to the VAT compensation scheme – it is probably 1.2 billion. kr. There's a lot of agreement in the Storting that we're going to have, and a system that we've seen works. But it does not, unfortunately, apply to upgrade and maintenance. Everyone thinks it's tragic to see that our little cultural houses are running out of time, so we have to have this discussion in Stortinget. We need to have a review both in Stortinget and in the Committee on what we are going to do in the future. When there are 17,900 voluntary teams and organisations around the municipalities, we have a lot of organisations to do with, and we have to be in dialogue with them. Here – I think we agree – we want to promote voluntary activity in the municipalities. But as I said, I don't think the solution is just more entries in the budget, that we see the different cultural houses in different posts, I think we also need to discuss the amount of the amounts. Someone has to dry out and ask, do we have enough local culture houses? Do we have too many? We should probably have that discussion too, and not least it should come locally. The possibility of deductions for maintenance and upgrade is, as I said, something we should discuss in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e932	‘Fiest in the room’ is a well-known concept — for some nostalgic memory from the youth, but for others a part of a living building culture in which assembly houses continue to serve as venues for festive layers and traditional events, both in the village and in community buildings in urban areas. In addition to the school, the organisation-led cultural buildings have an important role as a meeting place at local level. Here the organizations have their meetings and activities, here it is arranged, the villagers rent premises for confirmation and anniversary, the amateur theaters have their revisions and performances, and the corps and choirs have exercises. Most of such cultural buildings are built in the first half of the 1900s, and in the course of the years countless hours have been devoted to maintaining and rehabilitating the buildings and trying to update the buildings to today's requirements and facilities. I feel that there is a broad political consensus on the value of voluntary work. Then, too, action has been taken to improve the financial framework conditions for non-governmental organisations in recent years. Not least this VAT compensation scheme. To this end, there is a political desire to offset the disadvantages of non-governmental organisations as opposed to businesses and municipalities, since they cannot deduct the input VAT for purchases and investments, inter alia. construction. However, the scheme has unfortunately been designed so that there is a large part of the turnover of non-governmental organisations for which it is not possible to apply for VAT compensation, such as new buildings, building up and rebuilding property, i.e. large investments involving hard work and resources in organisations. In addition to the compensation scheme for goods and services, there has been a separate VAT compensation scheme for sport in the construction of sports facilities since 2010. This is an important system that the Central Party has been involved in initiating, and which we believe must be made more predictable, but this is an important matter for itself. Both sports facilities and cultural buildings are, in their own way, part of the local infrastructure that sustains and allows voluntary activity and that brings people together under common roof – both directly and in transferred importance. In this way, these houses represent anchoring and continuity — yes, in many ways they also house the identity of a community. Nevertheless, there is a discrimination between facilities built and rehabilitated under sports law and houses built and rehabilitated by other non-governmental organisations. And why? The letter from the Council of State Widvey, which is attached to the suspension, makes it a point that inclusion of the costs of rehabilitation and new buildings would consume too much of the funding for the scheme. It is only a question of the size of the budget, which rests on the size of the political will to give priority to the objective. The letter also refers — which is also repeated as a point in the timing — to the explicit exclusion of such expenditure from the VAT compensation scheme for voluntary organisations. Yes, and that is also the background to the draft representative. It therefore proposes either to extend the existing scheme to new buildings, rehabilitation and conversion, or to establish a separate VAT compensation scheme for organisationally-owned cultural buildings, similar to that for sports-based construction. I think Norway's Youth Act illustrates the incomprehensible discrimination in a good way by pointing out that if an organisation changes a roof with roof tiles and at the same time does a reasonable after-sole, then a non-VAT exemption, because it is considered an upgrade and not maintenance. But if you only put on new roof sheets and then you choose to fire the crow, yes, then the government will appreciate the light solution by compensating for the value added tax. I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding the arguments put forward by the majority in this position. Above all, I find it difficult to understand why the majority believe that this discrimination between different parts of the voluntary sector should continue. In the case of the Centre Party, it is important to strengthen the voluntary sector in total and not to make artificial distinctions in legislation, as is the case in the case of VAT compensation for houses and installations. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that have been distributed on the desks of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e953	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien then brought up the proposals she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e956	Voluntary teams and associations need a place to do what they do. They need premises, whether they're in an alleyhouse, community houses, warehouses or other buildings. These houses are important for cultural life. They are important meeting places in their community, and they mean far too many, not least for children and young people, who have an arena to unfold in here. The organizationally-owned houses are run smoothly, with no government grants in particular. It's true that no one gets as much activity out of every penny as volunteer. However, there is reason to see whether we have good enough public support for these houses, especially since many of them need to be upgraded. The left, for its part, promoted a proposal on the Stortinget on a new and more offensive financing system for cultural buildings eight years ago, but without our agreement at the time. The VAT compensation scheme shall promote voluntary activity and this is a wide-ranging scheme. But the arrangement does not quite work when a team or a association needs to build a new one, rebuild it or build it on to be able to operate its activities in a good way. When the team or association does not recover VAT for these often large expenses, the voluntary activity of these organisations will clearly be affected. The system of VAT compensation shall be simple and unbureaucratic for the voluntary teams and associations. It may be difficult to say in practice whether what a do is maintenance that provides compensation or whether there is an upgrade that does not provide compensation. Here there are grey zones, and it makes the system more bureaucratic than it needs to be. With regard to the proposal for a separate grant scheme for organisationally-owned cultural buildings, I have noticed that the Council of State in its response to the Stortinget indicates that with today's scheme there is a good distribution between the type of building receiving subsidies. I think it's hard to say anything about how good this distribution is, all the time we don't know exactly how many organizational houses there are, or what constitution these houses are in. I have therefore noticed the feedback from particularly small teams and associations that it may be difficult for them to compete for the funding of subsidies with large public cultural buildings, which would like to apply for much larger amounts. They know better about the grant schemes, and they have a larger apparatus with permanent staff behind them to write applications. With a separate grant scheme, we will be better able to target funds against voluntary teams and associations and towards organisations-sided houses that should be supported. I warn you that the Left will support the proposals submitted by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e973	The President makes it clear that if anyone is now looking for the distributed suggestions on his desk, and does not find them, you have to look up the saddle, and they are there electronically.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e976	We all agree that voluntary associations, teams and organisations for generations have played an important role in Norwegian society. It's still like that. Therefore, it is also important that the State and the municipality contribute to facilitating such activities. That is why we also have grant schemes that benefit differently from the voluntary sector, schemes that focus on good local anchoring and social inclusion, and are built from grassroots. We also agree that voluntary activity must have appropriate premises in different ways. However, there may appear to be differing views on the mechanism of the various instruments, and there also appear to be differing views on the interaction between support schemes, in the light of the proposed representative. The present document contains two concrete proposals. The system of VAT compensation is therefore extended to include the conversion, construction and new construction of organisationally-owned cultural houses. In addition, a separate scheme for organisationally-owned cultural buildings is proposed within the decentralised grant scheme for local and regional cultural buildings. As was said here from the Chair earlier today, the grant scheme for the compensation of VAT to non-governmental organisations was established in 2010. The scheme has been important to improve the framework conditions for local layers. 17 863 voluntary teams and organisations received 940 million. kr in VAT compensation in 2013. In 2014, the scheme increased to 1.2 billion. kr. The system is simple and unbureaucratic. However, compensation is not granted for expenditure on new buildings, construction or conversion. Of building costs, only operations and maintenance provide a basis for compensation. As the proposers point out, the aim of the scheme is to promote voluntary activity. When the scheme was set up, this was given great weight. One suggested that if VAT costs related to construction were also to be compensated, this would take too much of the appropriations. In that case, this would have had less impact on activities. The county councils manage instruments for cultural construction. The grants shall contribute to appropriate premises for different cultural activities. Grants may be granted to cultural houses, multi-purpose premises or special facilities for art and culture. The funds may be used for the construction, conversion and modernisation of cultural buildings, but not for the normal maintenance and operation. The buildings shall as far as possible act as cultural meeting places for all. It is the county councils which lay down the detailed conditions for the applications for grants. The reporting by the county councils shows that there is a good distribution between the type of barley receiving subsidies and also between grants to new buildings versus conversion. Organisational houses such as alleyhouses, community houses, prayer houses, People's House, Farmers' House, Scout House and Red Cross have received grants. Thus, the reporting suggests that there is a willingness and interest to develop existing cultural arenas that have a good local anchoring. I therefore do not see the need to establish a separate grant scheme for organisationally-owned cultural houses. Such buildings receive grants under today's scheme. A two-way sharing of the scheme seems to me to lead to less flexibility. It's not desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1008	The Council of State stated that there are two VAT compensation schemes in the State budget today, and that this proposal would put further pressure on the schemes in place — and that today’s schemes are already under strong pressure. There were several people here who mentioned that 10 million had been added. kr into the one scheme as revised. For the Labour Party, we put in $25 million. Add kr. I registered that the party trap of the Council of State is asking the Council of State to clean up that situation in the regrouping, and I can confirm that it will receive support from the Workers' Party. But is the Council satisfied with the draft budget submitted for 2015 for VAT compensation schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1013	We have put forward a proposal. What the amount of application is going to be in 2105, we don't know until the end of the new year. But what we have learned from the system of grants that works, and the need for applications that has been for the current year, is that there is a gap between the number of applications received and the budget available, at least 50 million. kr. It's based on getting 100 pst. VAT compensation. The scheme has provided for this to be regulated. As I have said before, the government is aware of this problem, and we are working to look at the scheme and, if necessary, what changes you can make.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1018	In the draft budget submitted in relation to installations and investments, it is set at a very modest amount of 6 million. kr. What kind of coverage does the Council expect the layers that are now building will receive for 2015 with the proposal that has been submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1023	In 2015, it is difficult to predict how many applications will be made. The coverage will be based on the means available and the number of applications received. But what we see from the current year is that there has been an increase in the number of applications. I also remember that it was actually the previous government that presented its budget for 2014. There we had a proposal for an increase, so there's always an uncertainty about whether you've really made it when there's such a kind of allocation like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1028	I just want to make sure that the Central Party has also increased this budget line in its alternative budget. I would like to ask the Council of State if she thinks it is reasonable that if a switch of gazebos with roof tiles and after-soles, a non-contribution will be paid, but if one puts on a second glance without any after-insulation, a compensation will be paid for that VAT expense.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1035	When this VAT compensation scheme was introduced, the Senterpartiet was placed in government. The compensation scheme was established in 2010. The system is very simple and unbureaucratic, as I also said in my post, and there was no grant for new buildings, building or conversion expenses. It was also clarified that of the building costs, only operation and maintenance provide a basis for compensation. On the other hand, the opposite is the case with regard to the scheme for the use of the toy, which the county municipalities are responsible for redistributing. There are, in fact, opportunities to give to the type of action that the representative here mentions. I think that's a good combination. One scheme stimulates the operation and maintenance of buildings, while the other provides real opportunities for new buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1040	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1045	If a bet is to bet on the local cultural life, the cultural base wall, then it must also support the organizationally-owned cultural buildings. These buildings have ours and are important for the development of local unification and mean much to the living culture and cultural life of both the city and the countryside. I think everyone can be a few about that. Many of the local cultural houses that are run and operated by volunteers in teams today have a large maintenance run, and the need for modernisation is great, as I see it in my hometown, Nesbyen, where the youth house Sollys is now being refurbished. Voluntary teams may have operating costs for power, maintenance and public charges that are the multiple of what they receive in public terms. The Central Party therefore believes that there is a need to strengthen the state support mechanisms for these cultural buildings. The VAT compensation scheme for voluntary organisations, which was introduced in 2010, is a good scheme, but this support scheme needs to be adjusted so that – as mentioned here – wave inks can become a roof with roof tiles, and that the scheme changes from being only to maintenance and operation to being also applicable to new buildings, conversion and building. Today, much of the effort made by the local culture is going to actually pay VAT to the state, and there will be a corollary organised to pay this fee. The current system of support for local cultural buildings administered by the county councils is an important state support scheme. The problem is that the voluntary teams here have to compete for the large public-owned cultural houses. There are many places where volunteers make losses in this race, and this also loses local culture. The Centre stresses that the VAT compensation scheme must be extended to cover new buildings, construction and conversion costs incurred by voluntary law and organisations. This, together with a strengthened organisation-owned cultural building scheme, will ensure better support for voluntary cultural life and a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1060	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1066	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1124	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1134	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1142	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the publication of new competitions reserved to non-profit actors for the purchase of permanent child protection facilities after 1 February 2015, with a short offer deadline and with a contract period from 1 April 2016, with a contract duration equivalent to that established in the Health West for cross-sectoral drug treatment.’; The voting boards showed that 54 votes were cast against and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 12.43.23]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1165	The centre party had announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1170	I'm sorry. Then we'll have a new voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1173	SV has also announced that we are voting in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1178	Then we take the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, again. The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1192	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The biggest demand for new joint bids for the purchase of permanent child protection sites for commercial and non-profit actors in the spring of 2015. The condition for joint tenders is to clarify a solution to the historical pension obligations of the non-profit actors arising from previous requirements for the provision of child protection services. If this is not in place, it is assumed that the ideals will be offered under a screened tender for a minimum period of 4 + 2 years. If the pension challenges are resolved during the contractual period, there is a mutual possibility of cancellation that provides predictability for both parties.» The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1211	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, when a new joint tender for the purchase of fixed child protection facilities is announced, to assume that the contracts are made on a long-term/rolling basis, with regular follow-up to the contract and mutual dispensation to meet the long-term needs of children.’; The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1246	In the course of the debate, one proposal was put forward by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to promote a new model of child protection management in which the statutory tasks of the municipalities are continued and strengthened and where the regional tasks of the Bufeta are transferred to the county municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1277	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to improve the financial framework for organisationally owned cultural buildings by providing VAT compensation for new, new and new construction and conversion costs for construction, plant or other fixed property.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up its own organisation-owned cultural building scheme within the decentralised local and regional cultural building scheme.’ The Left and the Left have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-13.ana.ud1974e1321	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? Nobody does. - The meeting's been cancelled.
