ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e53	Three permit applications are available: by Mr Rasmus Hansson, on welfare leave from 13 June onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from 16 June to 20 June in order to take part in the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Japan by the representatives Sylvi Graham and Sven Roald Hansen on leave of 16 and 17 June in Athens – both to attend the COSAC meeting in Athens Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate representative of the Eastfold County, Wenche Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under Svein Roald Hansen's leave on 16 and 17 June, for welfare reasons. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Thore Vestby For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen For Oslo: Une Aina Bastholm from 13 June until further notice For Eastfold County: Fredrik Björnebeck
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e106	Une Aina Bastholm is present and will take the seat. The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e111	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe, Jenny Følling, Heidi Greni and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal to lift the requirement of continuous withdrawal of the right to secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e116	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e132	This interpellation was submitted on 26 March 2014 and, as stated in the interpellation, in the light of Prime Minister Solberg’s opinion at the government budget conference, it announced that there would be major challenges in the labour market in the future. It's a challenge we have to meet together to solve, that's why I've invited you to this dialogue with the Prime Minister today. When the government of Solberg took over responsibility after the government of Stoltenberg last autumn, it assumed responsibility for one of Europe's lowest levels of unemployment. It's not a result of chance or luck, but of a conscious policy where work for everyone is job number one. During the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, Norway was hit, as is the case in all countries. A strong export-dependent country such as Norway is vulnerable to international economic recessions. Nevertheless, when things went better with us, it was a result of a solid business life and an active counter-cyclical policy. The goal was Europe’s lowest unemployment rate and Europe’s most powerful measures against unemployment. The petroleum sector, with a high technological level, contributed to the continued high level of activity, and that was important. Many public employees, who do not have to fear that they will lose their jobs, also make Norway less vulnerable to the employment effects of bad times. But what separated us most from other countries was that we chose to go through all policy areas with a view to the employment impact of measures in all departments. This is not a challenge that can only be solved by the Ministry of Labour. The overall objective of all departments must be to strengthen employment in the short and long term. Tax policy provides a framework that is essential for business. Therefore, the reactions were strong when the government proposed to remove the CO2 compensation scheme in the year’s budget. It would seriously weaken much of our competitive business, but fortunately it was stopped in Stortinget. Similarly, Norwegian timber industry is now threatened by the unexplained situation regarding the rules on electricity charging. The most important labour policy is industrial policy. If business goes well, the unemployment rate is low and the value creation is high. Therefore, agricultural policy is directly important for those who are now afraid of future agriculture. But it is also crucial for the food industry, and it is important for the many small and large suppliers who supply goods and services to agriculture. Similarly, the fisheries sector, which contributes to activity, employment and value creation across the country, is crucial for the country and for many communities along the coast. Another good example is the maritime cluster of more than 100,000 employed people around the country. When we are concerned about the international situation and competitiveness of shipping companies, it is not of concern to shipowners, but because the Norwegian maritime nation will not lead the world unless we are engaged in shipping. It's around the shipping we've developed an industry and technology that a high-cost country can compete with outside the world. In order to achieve the necessary conversion and renewal, the education system and research are crucial. It is at the intersection of research and industrial development that we find tomorrow's products that can defend our high cost level. Perhaps the most important single reason why things are going so well here in the country is the primary school. This figure, that everyone should have the same opportunity in the education system, makes it possible for everyone with talent, and not just a few chosen ones, to develop their knowledge. This is simply good use of resources. Another effect of the common school is the understanding and the cohesion it provides in society. The fact that everyone working in a company has shared experiences at school and knows each other as equivalent, although they may have different positions in the company, is probably one of the main reasons for the success of Norwegian business. Research and education policy today will be crucial for tomorrow's business. I therefore wish the government good luck with the stated goal of also improving vocational education and training, to become more adapted to those who choose practical training. In labour policy, we now see changes that do not strengthen work towards announced increased unemployment. All experience suggests that temporary jobs do not give more jobs, but more temporary ones. Regrettably, the government has been given a majority to weaken the regulation of leave, while at the same time giving notice of some increase in leave. Both the proposal to increase the employer’s period from 10 to 20 days and to reduce the period of leave from 30 to 26 weeks has caused strong reactions in the business community, among employers and employees. A number of individual companies have asked for this to be reversed without it looking to make an impression on the government. I think Knut E. Sunde of the employer's organization Norsk Industrie may be involved in something when he says: ‘Unfortunately, the consequence of doubling the time that the employer is responsible for the permissive payments has been the result of a large number of companies discouraging people instead. We believe that the government must understand this and change the rules in relation to the revised budget in ours.» – He said this earlier in ours. Unfortunately, the government did not listen to him; unfortunately there was no change in the revised national budget. This makes it more difficult for serious Norwegian industry, which sees the value for health, environment and safety as well as for productivity to have its own permanent employees. Similarly, the reduction in the number of labour market measures is a wrong measure in the situation notified by the government. One of the strengths and the factors involved in explaining why competitive business is successful in Norway is the Norwegian model of cooperation. Joint responsibility provides stability in business, contributes to innovation and transformation. However, the social partners are no longer being listened to to to the same extent – not in terms of the law of leave, nor in terms of the environmental protection law, we heard earlier this week. The current government no longer has a process with the parties, but instead runs an ideologically-based attack on central laws that have come into existence in good cooperation. It doesn't promise well. Since the General Agreement of 1935, employment in Norway has been in order in close cooperation with the authorities. That tradition is now challenged by the government. The Parties also agree on the serious situation of social dumping and labour crime. The various organisations have many joint input, and some different, about what needs to be done to avoid undermining a serious Norwegian working life. Here too, the government should listen to the parties, who have experience in everyday life and knowledge of what can work. The government of Stoltenberg presented three action plans against social dumping and crime at work. On Wednesday, the government presented concrete measures to facilitate social dumping, despite the fact that the government is now also seeing the problem of increased labour-life crime. The cooperation between the social partners and across political divisions has been a necessary prerequisite for the low unemployment rate and the orderly working life we have today. Does the Prime Minister agree that cooperation should be developed and not be phased out? And does she agree that all policies must work together to achieve the goal of full employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e178	I would like to thank the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, for bringing up a very important topic. It is a very important goal for the government to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. There are several reasons for this. For the individual, a job means going to personal development, social community and home security. For society, high employment means keeping value creation up and strengthening the funding of our welfare society. High employment and low unemployment are therefore priority policy objectives for the government. Unemployment increased by the end of 2012 in Norway and by 2013. From the last government budget proposal, it appeared that unemployment would also increase slightly in the current year. Forecasts now show the same trend, but the level is still low. If unemployment rises to high levels, as we saw in the early 1990s, it is difficult to bring it down again. In periods of high unemployment, there is also a danger that people will be permanently pushed out of work. Therefore, it is important to pay high attention to developments, although I stress that the level of unemployment in Norway is still low. But it's dangerous clouds for Norway. It is particularly important to address the long-term challenges for the Norwegian economy when pointing to some of the most key challenges for full employment and not to experience high unemployment in the years to come. In recent years, the two-part division of the Norwegian economy has been speeding up. We've made ourselves more dependent on oil revenues and the oil sector's own demand. At the same time, we have known for a long time that the driving force of oil investment is for the Norwegian economy, when a peak and gradual decline are expected. In line with the developments we have had, we have also seen in recent years how the level of costs in Norway has increased more than in our main trading partners. At the same time, we have not managed to achieve productivity growth that is better than our trading partners. There is reason to believe that what we are now seeing is that cost developments are slowing growth and employment in Norway. So we know that the Norwegian economy is facing two further major challenges: we are getting older in the labour market. We know that employment among the oldest in the labour market is slightly lower than among the younger. The big post-war coals are retiring. The proportion of older people in the population will increase. In addition, we are facing a transition to a more climate-friendly economy. We have to take into account that the price of carbon will increase sharply in the coming years. All of these challenges that I have now mentioned are really well known. The representative, Andersen, was concerned that the previous government was taking action to increase employment. I think we took some important action together. The pension reform has been implemented by alternating governments, and we have been united to make the changes. That's a good answer to some of our long-term challenges. But I also believe that we have closed our eyes to some of the other challenges we have had, not least the lack of productivity development and cost development in Norway, over the last eight years before the government change. That is why our government has changed the course in a number of areas. High costs and low productivity growth must meet with a much more offensive response than what we have seen in recent years. That is why we have started work to look at how productivity growth can be increased, dry to ask the questions about what is needed in order to save the welfare of the future by combining high wage levels and high productivity at the same time. Growth in investment in the mainland economy has been low in recent years. We have implemented, and we will propose new tax incentives that stimulate investment in Norwegian jobs. I fully agree with Andersen's representative that it is important that as many of our children as possible go to the same type of school. I also hope that children of future owners will go to the same school because they feel that they are close to the workplace, and that the ownership of Norwegian jobs does not move out because we have strange taxes on it. We have implemented and are going to have new tax reliefs. We have strengthened the focus on innovation, especially in the industrial innovation areas such as the BIA and the SkattenFUNN. Investments in infrastructure have increased and will continue to increase in the future. This is an approach to address the long-term nature of the cost challenges and, consequently, the uncertainty surrounding Norwegian jobs. We've already done a lot to realize the knowledge society. It is important to state: we cannot pick which industries in the future will take over from the great impulses of the oil and gas industries. But we know that there is knowledge that is the oil of the future for Norway. That is why we are strengthening research. New knowledge will contribute to new jobs and better management of societal challenges. Not least, this government puts heavy emphasis on school. The ambitions for continuing training of teachers have been strongly elevated in the additional proposal and further increased in the revised national budget. A world-class school will strengthen Norwegian workers in an increasingly global labour market and facilitate migration and safe jobs. Climate challenges must also be met offensively, so that Norwegian business can adapt to stronger environmental requirements in the coming years. One of the measures we have implemented is the strengthening of the Climate Fund, renewable energy and energy conversion beyond the previous government was willing to do so in the climate agreement. That is why we are also putting bigger muscles into the work against climate change and securing jobs in the transition that is coming. Common to many of the measures taken by this government is the creation of knowledge-based growth from below. We stimulate creativity and creativity in society. It triggers forces in people with ideas and who want to bet, and it is absolutely necessary to create new, secure jobs in the knowledge society of the future. Then I fully agree with the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, that high employment and low unemployment must be important targets for all government councils in a government. The most important measures I have mentioned now include: under the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Knowledge, the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Transport, the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Climate and Environment. In addition, work, for example: the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, with better results of labour market measures and strengthening measures for the disabled. The development of employment among people with disabilities has been disappointing in recent years. Governments are also working to strengthen the line of work. Activity requirements become mandatory for social assistance recipients, unless there are strong reasons for doing so. It is important to ensure that youth is not led into a life of passivity, but is drawn back into society when it starts to creep. The Minister of Health is working to strengthen the supply of mentally ill people. Psychiatric disorders are the main cause of sick leave and people falling out of work. The previous government removed the requirement that health businesses should give priority to growth in the supply of mentally ill people. We've reintroduced this. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has a strengthening of the work on business promotion abroad as one of his priorities, important areas of work. In addition, we know that the framework conditions under the EEA Agreement are important for Norwegian jobs, and this government has undertaken to follow up the obligations of the EEA Agreement and take care of Norwegian interests towards the EU on the agenda in a completely new way by bringing together the coordination responsibilities of its own State Council. I could actually keep talking about a lot of this, because it is an overall goal of this government to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian business because that is what helps to secure Norwegian jobs. It is to have long-term perspective – knowing what the challenges in the future are, which can challenge full employment – that is important for politicians. It is important to remember that we can do small repairs in close proximity and in close proximity. The important thing we can do is to create robustness around our jobs in the long term. We therefore have an offensive attitude to do something about the long-term challenges of employment. I often recorded that the previous government talked a lot about employment. It spoke of it being ready to use interest rate policies and budget measures if development became acute, but it was less concerned to talk about the long-term challenges. If we solve the long-term challenges, the situation will not be acute. We will ensure employment, competitiveness and, above all, the security of each family in the years to come. That this work is a priority, as the interpellant asks about, is evident from the government's political platform. Strengthened competitiveness of Norwegian jobs is one of the government's areas of activity. It has shaped the government's work so far, and it is going to shape the government's work in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e210	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. Not least, I am pleased that it is emphasised that all the governments have a responsibility for employment policy. It is only by having the awareness of daily work that one can achieve the objective of full employment — if that is the main objective. It was for the previous government, and I hope it is for the current government. We agree on a lot of the analysis. One of the main challenges in the Norwegian economy is the division of the economy. It was said by both the previous government and the current government, and it was just going to be missing, because it's really one of our big challenges. It is good that the oil sector is doing well, but it is important to balance it with the rest of the economy. Then I fully agree that pension reform is a shining example of how we have achieved good solutions in common, but I remember that this is not just about us in the political parties. I myself was responsible for the stage of presenting the legislative proposals in the pension reform, and then we had very good contact. However, it was important that the social partners were also active. It was not just about getting information about what we were working on the pension reform – they were involved in the pension reform. After all, our pension system is to degrees depending on contractual pensions on supplementary pensions. It is a good example that we must not just work in a cross-political way, but we must work well and in dialogue and process with the social partners. Then the prime minister insisted that we couldn't choose the industries. That's right, but let me use the fisheries sector as a very good example. We have the world's finest resources out there in the ocean, and as far as we can, we have to make sure that the resources last. So we've used the knowledge from the coast. We have used the knowledge of those who have traded rock fish with Portugal and exported fish to Europe for centuries. The knowledge and knowledge of fish we have combined with research on fish feed in Ås, on advanced mermaids and technological equipment. So we've combined existing knowledge with research and new developments and become world leaders in the breeding sector. We are today the world's second largest exporter of seafood, and the breeder has passed the captive now. I think that's a good example of you not thinking completely business neutral either. We have some competitive advantage, as I mentioned in my main post – also for the maritime sector – so you can't just say that the money goes where they throw the most of them. We need a strategy for research, for innovation Norway funds, for the instrument to work together to strengthen those areas where we have comparative advantage. Or as Nils Arne Egg said, when he was head of Rosenborg. I know it might offend the Prime Minister, but this is formerly Rosenborg, so I hope it goes well. He wrote a book called Godfooten. If we focus on what we're good at, even a team from a small country can compete with someone who has more resources. And that must be what is Norway's future: to bet where we have competitiveness to make that competitiveness even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e219	I fully agree that it is important to work with the social partners, but that does not mean that democracy should also be allowed to express its opinion in Norway. I understand that it is believed that it is wrong for the government to send it to the hearing, so that everyone in Norway can express themselves on changes to the Working Environment Act, without the social partners having first been allowed to sanction what we are going to send out to the hearing. That's not how democracy works for me. The point is, in the process, we have to listen to good, professional objections. So I want to say that this government is not talking about business neutrality in research or in the use of tools in terms of Innovation Norway. On the contrary, we have many sectoral programmes. On the contrary, we work, for example. with wild caught cod – by having live caught fish and keeping it – to ensure that we extend the season during which cod can be caught. As far as the aquaculture industry is concerned, I would like to say that you might forget the founders who started it all. It's probably a little bit representative of the Workers' Party that they forget that there were people who started with it. Those who actually invested at the very beginning, who helped to extend the gender maturity period, did it long before the research had picked it up or there were some public instruments for it. They were the ones who, of their own interest and with great interest, started all that work. So you need the mix, you need the founder who wants to bet on the good ideas, you need the research environment, and you need the tool to do this, to create new business in the future. ‘Industrial neutrality’ is a term used last time in a public document to the Stortinget by former Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen in 2001. This government has not said that we have business neutrality, for example. in research policy or instrumentation. But it's very important that we don't spend all our money on the industries we have today, and we don't have broad tools to make sure that the new industries, the new technologies and all the new things that happen don't have a room. That is why we also need good general instruments, and not just special instruments where there are press groups that put the issues on the agenda. Because these are the new-born ideas, or the things that have not been invented today, that might be the future industries in the years to come. So I know as a conservative that we always build a business life on the business life we have today, with that knowledge and competence. The oil supply industry is based on our maritime competence before that. Without that competence, we would not have an oil supplier industry that we have today. Therefore, the industries of the future will also be based on the expertise we have from clusters, but perhaps in completely different new and exciting areas. Therefore, it is important that we spend more money on research and development, and it is important that we do something about what has been the challenge in Norway, that research and development has been too far away from what has been the needs of business. That's what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e230	I would like to start by thanking the interpellant for ensuring that we have an overall debate in the main hall on the strategy for full employment. It's good that we get. Then, through the election campaign, we could hear the Prime Minister lifting up value creation as a major topic. She voiced criticism of increasing Norwegian oil dependence and underlined the importance of pursuing industrial policies that provide us with more bones to stand on. We heard her repeat several of the same reasoning now. It's easy to nod. No one is against a solidly diversified Norwegian business. As a result, many of the political measures that the Prime Minister has been at the forefront of post-government change have also been surprising, for several of them are directly in line with the goal of full employment across the country and good dissemination of business activities. We got the government's first budget in the fall. This meant a tax return on agriculture that has been confirmed by the revised budget, and a scrapping of the whitefish package to mention something — overall a policy towards primary industries that cannot be seen as supportive in any way. Concerns about non-oil competitive industries should also be given to ensuring that the framework conditions for this industry are as predictable as possible. These are companies how many of them operate completely on the margin. Before the elections, there were a number of blue-blue representatives who were on the Red-Green government to make sure that the action space for a CO2 compensation scheme was fully used. Therefore, it was mildly perceptive that the government proposed to shave that arrangement in its first budget. Although that proposal did not tolerate the meeting with the industry, the meeting with the environmental movement, the meeting with the Stortinget, and the government had to turn around, there was an uncertainty there that is not good. For several of these enterprises, the situation is precisely that they have negotiated power contracts where that plan is a prerequisite. The result now is that there are owners and wonder if it is particularly smart to invest in the Norwegian power-intensive industry, when we have a government that is willing to change on central framework conditions almost before they have gone into force properly. In the context of the review, the Workers' Party has made proposals to secure the end of the contractual period. I hope it's a proposal that gets the support of the bourgeois parties, because it would be a very good signal to important Norwegian companies. When I'm so concerned about this, it's because being able to preserve the mainland industry helps to transform it in a climate-friendly way and helps to keep these important environments of competence. It is absolutely essential to avoid what the Prime Minister himself has expressed concern that we should get too few legs to stand on. Intensification of the permit arrangement was the interpellant inside. It was also part of the harvest budget. Predictably – this is what we have seen from right-wing politicians before. But it is particularly serious that it happens at the same time as there is an increase in unemployment. I was one of those in the hearings to the revised budget, and there was one review theme. There was unanimous criticism from both LO, NHO and other business organisations that said that the right to cancellation now needs to be increased, rather than to permit to the order books. This means that companies lose valuable competence. The revision has not yet been adopted. It is still possible to stay with the red-green parties to reverse the changes, make sure fewer people lose their jobs. It'll cost about 40 million. kr. That's half of the total government has prioritised giving people more wine on duty-free under the label "more freedom of choice". I am absolutely sure that the freedom of companies to choose to permit their employees instead of canceling them is an important reform of freedom of choice. There is no time to go into a broad range of business and employment policies. But I need to say that the understanding of, or perhaps the lack of understanding of, tripartite cooperation that the government has demonstrated in the last few days is alarming. I think the Prime Minister should take this interpellation and the fact that it has traveled, as a signal of genuine concern for the government's overall employment policy. It's a concern that I think the Prime Minister is wise to listen carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e256	The government's objective is a safe and flexible labour market that ensures low unemployment and high employment. We know that a well-functioning labour market is crucial for each of us to realize our dreams, ambitions, and that it is worth working. High employment and low unemployment are the central objectives of this government. Employment policies should facilitate a flexible labour market, enable all to use their skills, and enable businesses to gain the skills they need. We know that, especially after eight red-green years, some groups have challenges getting into work or staying in work over time. This is particularly true of people with reduced working capacity, particularly those who do not manage Norwegian well enough, and not least young people without completed education. This government is now passing through a number of laws and regulations to include more people in the labour market and to increase labour input by both simplifying and increasing flexibility. During the year, a selection of experts shall assess the whole of Nav with a view to making it more user-friendly, transparent and simpler. The new agreement on an inclusive working life concluded this year has made it easier to follow up the sick. The government in the budget for 2014 turned the labour market measures of ordinary job seekers into a certain increase in priority for people with disabilities. There are slightly more than 70,000 response sites in 2014. Economic developments now indicate that action is being taken at this level, but in addition to this, we find it worrying that an increasing proportion of younger people are out of work. They have little work experience, and unfortunately few have completed high school. Therefore, the government will present a major autumn announcement with strategies to allow more people to take part in the ordinary working life. We're starting to see the end of the paychecks that the parties have now implemented. Coordinated settlements in which competitive industries are negotiated first will help to keep wage growth within the framework of which cooperation is now under way. We have achieved a wage growth both in the state and most of the public sector and in the private sector with a framework of 3.3 pst., which is less than foreseen in the State budget. There is a good background for good cooperation between the social partners. The government has delivered both on the IA agreement and in the State sector. And as many people have been involved, we now come up with a series of proposals to be addressed in the Storting in the next session – hopefully – in terms of revising the Labour Environment Act and measures to bring even more people outside the labour market into the labour market. We come from the Right and Advance Party to increase the investment in wage subsidies and work training in ordinary businesses in conjunction with the current ones, but we will also make considerably stricter demands on the suppliers of these offers. We see that in terms of as much money as we spend to help those who need to get into the workplace, the results are not relative to the resources that are being used. Therefore, the government has also said that it will have better conditions for the use of social entrepreneurs and voluntary sector in the welfare system. We want an incentive-based system to provide more opportunities to disseminate people into the labour market, and we have just sent a consultation proposal to facilitate social entrepreneurs, such as the Church's Bymission, the Pub project and others, who have very good results that far surpass most municipal and intercommunal recruitment companies. We also believe that now that the new disability pension starts to work from 1 January next year, it will be considerably simpler and less risky – if you put on the hat of the disabled person who wonders if this is going to go well, if you try to get back to work – and thus you will have to use a workforce reserve that is quite large. We are also going to continue and continue the organisation guarantee and functional assistance system for people with disabilities. The government is going to have a continued well-functioning tripartite cooperation, and we are going to have a good time for the workers and a right to permanent work as pillars of our labour market policy. It will ensure a good working life for everyone. At the same time, we know that employment has some challenges. Many workers want more flexibility, which makes it easier to combine work and privacy. The government has now this week promoted a number of proposals to which I welcome, and looks forward to the work and social committee being examined as soon as possible in the new session.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e279	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic – a topic I believe there is a great deal of cross-political consensus: that having high employment and low unemployment is an overall objective. And then I also think that the interpellant is about something important: this applies, of course, to all sectors of society, and of course to the whole government as well. Having a good transport policy helps to facilitate business, making it easier to stimulate more jobs. When the government has a large-scale commitment to education and knowledge, it will help secure jobs and make society more adaptable. When the government contributes to reducing taxes and business simplification, it also helps to make it easier for businesses to employ more people, and it also makes it easier for more people to invest in Norway. Although we in Norway are lucky and have relatively high employment and low unemployment, there are at the same time several danger signals that it is important that we take inwards. The rest of Europe and the world have had, and are in part, a financial crisis. The financial crisis has also caused the rest of Europe and our trading partners and competitors to make significant changes and modernisations, which have not necessarily taken place in Norway in recent years, and this may weaken our competitiveness in the long term. When you talk about having very low unemployment, I think the unemployment figures are not necessarily quite correct. When we know that in Norway we have over 600 000 people in pre-employment who are out of work, it clearly shows that we have a significant labour force reserve, which we do not use. One of the overall objectives of the government is to better facilitate the entry into service of several of the 600 000. The number of over 600,000 unemployed has increased every year under the red-green government. Therefore, I am pleased that the government is now taking several steps to stimulate more of these to get into work, either in whole or in part. Some of what I was into at the beginning of my post goes on a more general level, in terms of reducing taxes, strengthening infrastructure and building the knowledge society. But some of the grips that the government has now announced are about softening the work environment law, doing the door for those who want to work, something further and making sure that we get a more flexible working life, which actually has room and space for all kinds of people, including people who may have some other challenges, such as disabled people, immigrants, etc. That's why I'm glad the government's taking those hands. Then I am also glad that the government is strengthening the number of places of action for people with disabilities. It is an important step that the government has chosen to take now in the state budget. We know that there are about 70,000–75 000 people – I believe to remember that it was – with impaired function, who themselves say that they want to get into work just because something better is being done for them. Then I am pleased with the government's strengthening of the action sites. Another important grip is, of course, about Nav. It's one of the most important tools we actually have to get people out of work. Then I am also pleased that the government has now begun to work through the entire Nav and to see how we can get a hub that is better organized for the individual, a hub that is not necessarily very square and A4-steered, but a hub that can see the needs, opportunities and abilities of the individual, and can adapt more closely to the individual employee’s offer – and not least that we now have a government that sees that Nav also has to play more on business to help create more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e298	Thanks to the interpellant, who has taken up perhaps one of the most important issues this house can deal with. We have a common goal: employment is very important in a welfare society, not just for the economy as a whole, but it makes the individual sense, it gives the individual master, and it also often gives a social community. So we do have little disagreement about the so-called line of work, although I have noted that the representative Hadia Tajik has had a larger article about the community of participants as an alternative. Work is also a driver of economic growth and well-being. Our wealth and our welfare community depend on work. Consultations were mentioned in the Financial Committee. I think the basic thing that we also agree on here is that we should have employment, we must have order in the Norwegian economy. That's the bottom plank. If we roll back a little bit, maybe the biggest concern from the red-green side was that there would not be an order in the Norwegian economy with a government shift. I'm glad that criticism has subsided. Both the adopted budget and the revised budget show that a new majority can keep the economy sound. Then we're talking about employment. There I want to dwell on a number that gives a common challenge. Yes, we have high employment, we have low unemployment. But the fact is that since the financial crisis, the employment rate, the number of persons employed as a percentage, fell and is now 68 p.m., while it was 72 p.m. before the financial crisis. There is something, among other things: employees’ organisations, headed by LO, have taken up – the reason for this. We do not come from statistics showing that more people in the Norwegian labour market – to call it that – are outside. More than before falls outside. In fact, most new jobs have gone to foreign labour after the financial crisis. There's a lot of good things about it, but it makes us have a big need, which both Kambe and Wiborg were now in, to look at what we're doing to take into working life those who have fallen and fall outside for too long now. Then I fully agree that school is a foundation. Those who have the majority in this room have really invested in school. I fully agree that the common school is good – then you can go to St. Sunniva up here and see that there is common school there too – but there must also be a cross of thought and a point that the Norwegian common school has unfortunately reproduced social inequality. It hasn't power what we've probably had as a goal: that we should make sure that everyone had equal opportunities. I'm glad that there's a lot of consensus between the four parties about investing in school, higher education, research and innovation. We have shown this at the latest in what comes into the revised national budget, which will be adopted in a week's time. Nor do we come from looking at the cost picture of Norwegian industry and looking at productivity. There the new government has taken action to which we have joined, and we have had joint arrangements around it in the adopted budget. So I would say, productivity, yes, but it can't be at the expense of just the second goal, to make sure that more people get into the world of work. Here you have to think of two thoughts at the same time. It doesn't help that we have a very productive workforce, and praise us for it, if it means that more and more people are outside and so-called unproductive. Time does not extend to proposals for new labour-environment laws or places of employment. I can only say for the Christian People's Party that we have the basics that it is our job to make sure that we do not have an A-layer and a B-layer in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e315	Thank you to the interpellant Dag Terje Andersen for taking up an exciting discussion. It's always good to be able to finish a busy big week discussing how all the existing is very well and all the change in the dangerous. There are many themes being recorded. I believe the interpellant was in agriculture, industrial policy, energy policy and school, fisheries, labour and district policy – and the Prime Minister also added to EU/EEA policy and climate policy. The last one, by the way, was happy. So it's a wide field we're discussing here. I want to stay a little bit by a factor that's open-minded in Norwegian society and in the Nordic model, and it's about having low unemployment and high employment. We've had that for a very long time, and it's happy. However, as some have said, Norway has a considerable hidden unemployment. There are hundreds of thousands of people outside the labour market – not registered as unemployed, but as part of the world’s highest sick leave – as disability pensioners, as people on redundancy pay. That's where our big challenge lies, getting the people, who in very many other countries would be put in the 'unemployed' section into the labour market – not to mention all those who work part-time. We have a relatively high employment, absolutely, but if we adjust for part-time, it's much lower. Some people in this room and in the previous government swear for the so-called 6-hour day. Norwegian women already work 6 hours a day on average, because of the high part-time rate we have – a major challenge. A lot of this is about making sure it always pays to work. Then we have to be careful to look at the different social security and welfare systems with a critical look, make sure that we have security at the bottom, but that it always pays more to go to work. The representative Wiborg was within an interesting point, which I think we're going to come back to in the years to come. This is true of the neighbouring countries that we have in Europe, which have not been as fortunate/skillful – as they may see – through the financial crisis and which have had major challenges. It has been demanding, but it has also led to changes. There is also a need for adjustments in Norway, and we have been cautious about making some difficult choices so far, but in the future they will have to come here too. It is not least that we have an economy that is highly oil-dependent, both through the state budget we adopt in this Chamber, and through the labour market and our employment. It won't last; it will be for a while, but the options will have to come. Earlier this week, the government finally sent out on hearing proposals for changes to the Work Environment Act. There is something left has been called for a long time. We are pleased that we are finally having a debate which has been going on for eight years, but which is absolutely necessary for Norwegian working life. There has been a lot of discussion about temporary settings. It's an important discussion. For the left, we think that making sure that an opening gets to have temporary additions also in the private sector, not just in the state, can be important to many people who need to get the chance to show up, show what they're good for, get a foot inside. Half of those who have been temporarily added receive a job after one year, two thirds after two years, i.e. a permanent job. But there must be clear frames. Temporarily setting is something that is a required field to enter. The left believes that there should be a requirement that one gets a right to a permanent job after two years, and it should also apply in the state sector, where very many have gone too lye and cold water for far too many years. For example: the higher education sector goes 40 pst. in temporary settings. There is a clear need for tightening up — one could rather open up slightly in the private sector. In the discussion that has been held in the last few days, too, it was mentioned that what is happening now – that a democratically elected government with a democratically elected majority in its back sends out on hearing policies they have opted for – is a kind of violation of tripartite cooperation. I have a big problem with understanding that. The left is busy with an organized and safe working life, we're busy with the tripartite cooperation – it's been from the morning, I'd almost said, and at least since we were there, we fixed the main agreement that the interpellant pointed out, in 1935. But it's now so that no one has any right to pre-approve things before they're sent on the listener, but everyone should be allowed to make good recordings during an important hearing process. Then comes the debate to this hall – we are pleased to – and of course all the recordings are to be recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e334	There's some cold Else-May Bottom coming to the pulpit, but I'll try as hard as I can. I think the interpellant is addressing a very important topic, and I'm glad that the Prime Minister says that here we agree on the goal, here we are going to contribute to high employment and low unemployment. But it's not always as easy to know which way to go in different contexts, because things change, and we don't control everything – something we have the opportunity to do, otherwise we don't have. What I think is a little interesting is to take into account that Norwegian nutrition history is characterized by enormous changes all the time. There's nothing new, we've faced it many times. We have had – and we have – a business life with great abilities to take advantage of the opportunities that exist in Norway. The basis for the development of Norway must also be seen in the context of a wide range of policy areas. It's the great structures of the Norwegian economy and the culture we have to manage our resources, which have given us the welfare society we have today. The working party has always been concerned with work for everyone – that is our main goal. There goes this interpellation debate right into it. It helps everyone to participate and use their abilities, everyone is involved and earns money, everyone is involved and secures his life and has the opportunity to plan it – and it helps to create values, which in turn contribute to creating income for society, which gives us a well-being base with security for all. But it is also important to build on the skills built up by industry. I think of the amazing story we have with Industry-Norway – a hundred years of competence is built up. That competence needs to be further built and must be involved and contribute to our getting a hundred new years in view of the industrial development we have ahead of us. Adapting and having the good educational opportunities and connecting businesses and educational institutions even closer together, I think is an important part of that job. Then I want to say something positive about tripartite cooperation, because I think it's something we've done in Norway that's been incredibly good. We've gotten it to local, regional, and central. I myself have been a district secretary in LO and worked closely with the NHO and with the authorities, and I see that there has been an important pillar for us. We also look at the company level how important this has been. I thought I'd give an example. Gunvor Ulstein at Ulstein Verft says that this tripartite collaboration – this motivation – is important to us. When she goes to the Coop to buy food, there might be an employee and say that today I have found something smart that I want to bring up with you, I see an opportunity that we can do with our X-BOW -- or something. Gunvor Ulstein then picks up the cell phone, and they find a meeting time – they're gripping. There is something quite different than what China, for example, has of safe workers. They don't dare take that step. It's quite natural for us in Norway. I believe that the adaptability of that mechanism gives Norway competitiveness. Then I'd like to focus on what we heard in the election campaign that there were going to be a lot of new ideas and better solutions in business policy. I have to say, as a businessman, I have seen very little of the new solutions. We've seen old Right solutions when there's been any input. There are a lot of samples that have been reduced to find solutions to things, and it's nice to take a thorough round on it, but we're waiting for something to happen after that. With regard to Innovation Norway and the instrumentation, the government has said that we should now evaluate it. It's just evaluated, and business is pretty clear that maybe that's not what you need most. Unpredictability has come back again through the CO2 compensation, which was very difficult for industry to deal with, and the permitting mechanisms have changed. As far as state ownership is concerned, the focus is really just old right ideology – it is not very much new that has been signalled there either – and the simplification work has stopped, even if you have warned that there is a lot to come here. I think it's important that we now focus on the fact that all the state councils involved in industrial policy need to be involved and build up and be active and stand on business. Then we will also be active in the opposition when it comes to making representations about what is important to keep to the high level of employment that we have, and finding actions that are important also in view of the challenges we are going to face at all times in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e361	The interpellant challenges the Prime Minister on how to ensure that all government councils have low unemployment and strong employment as overall policy objectives. At any rate, I can assure you that at the end of this process we see the concrete results of a new government in terms of the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge. One of the government's most important projects is the realization of the knowledge nation. This is because, as the Prime Minister said, knowledge is ‘the oil of the future for Norway’. Investing in knowledge is a prerequisite for value creation and future well-being in Norwegian society. In the current year’s budget, the government began to shift its use of money into investing more in forward-looking measures rather than increasing overall consumption. The government has received strong reinforcement of the continuing training of teachers, enhanced vocational and vocational training, and the government prioritises measures leading to the completion of more than one higher education. In order to prevent people from falling out of work due to poor basic skills, the government has also strengthened the allocation of basic skills programmes in the labour market. The teaching effort will be further strengthened in the revised national budget. It's now in use over 600 million. kr for further training of teachers and principals in initial training. We also experience that record teachers will start further training. In total, more than 3550 teachers can receive further training in 2014. After nearly one year of new government, it is good for a representative who burns over the average for research to record that there are several good moves that are now being made to strengthen the knowledge society. Since Erna Solberg joined Prime Minister and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen as Minister of Knowledge, the government has so far been able to put research high on the agenda. It inspires further work for knowledge and research. In the current year's budget, investment in research has been reinforced by nearly 0.5 billion. kr more than what was proposed by the red-green government. Both the tax FUNN scheme and the nutritional research were strengthened, including: through appropriations for the BIA. The government has also strengthened the basic funding of the higher education sector by increasing the framework for performance-based redistribution. In the current year's budget, funding for scholarship positions was also strengthened in relation to the red-green government's proposal, and special emphasis was placed on MNT subjects, i.e. mathematics, science and technology. In the autumn, the government announced its arrival at Stortinget with its long-term research plan, where the main priorities are already known: sea, climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy, enabling technologies, better and more efficient public services, an innovative and adaptable business and world-leading trade unions. This week, in Stortinget, we have legalized equal rights for students to make it easier to combine studies with having children. Study support has been increased by 3.65 pst. That's the largest increase in over ten years. In addition to the changes in the Law on Higher Education, the government has recently presented an ambitious plan for Norwegian participation in the EU research programme Horizon 2020. The government is also taking action to strengthen the coordination of research policy by the government itself ‘being its own research policy initiative’. It shows that we have a Prime Minister who himself wants to give high priority to research policy. I think those who are concerned with higher education and research have noticed that the government not only talks about it being concerned with higher education and research, but also shows that it is serious about action. In its 2011 annual report, the Central Bank Manager made it clear that it is important to use the action space provided by oil revenues to invest in growth-enhancing measures. Unfortunately, this has not been done by the red-green government. I quote from the year 2011 of the Governor: ‘The authorities have used the space for action to implement standard increases and to increase expenditure in a number of areas. On the other hand, priority should be given to measures that strengthen productivity and growth in the longer term, including fiscal adjustments, which seem to have come to the fore.» So the head of the central bank said that in 2011. There is a lot of good going on in Norway, but there are also some danger signals. That is why a government is doing well to respond to the challenges we face in investing in school, in higher education, in research and innovation. It's investing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e394	There is a broad consensus that it is important to do a job in order to keep employment up and unemployment down. That is what this debate shows. The Prime Minister points to the long lines, demography, climate change, the broad economic lines and the need for research and development. But it's also important to have looked at what's happening now, what's happening in the near future? As John Maynard Keynes once said, "In the long run, we're all dead." In Hordaland, the unemployment rate has increased by 16.5 pst in the last year. The corresponding national number is 9 pst. increase. Hordaland, like the rest of the West, has a business structure with a lot of competitive industry. We are strongly influenced by the slowdown in oil and gas investments, and we look at measurements etc. that pessimism is greater in the west than in the rest of the country. This is not an unexpected development, which the Prime Minister himself was in. This is something we've seen coming for a while. So it's important to think about what we can do about it. In many ways, I believe that the government's policy as it is conducted is involved and is accelerating a negative development of this. The CO2 compensation and the impact if it has been mentioned. It has been an important issue for the industry in the West. It is also another important issue for the industry in the West. This concerns the ability to permeate the labour force and maintain the competence of enterprises. The legislation on permitting and the extension of the employer period here now leads to people being laid off, and businesses lose their competence rather than hold it at a time of slightly lower turnover. This also means that enterprises are increasingly using hired labour rather than employing their own people. Now we also have the changes proposed in the Working Environment Act that accelerate these developments. Access to increased use of temporary employment, making it more difficult for trade unions to protest about the use of rentals, and making it cheaper to use hired labour since, as a hired labour force, no longer enjoys the same salary as the colleagues with whom you work will lead to fewer permanent jobs. It is a natural consequence of the changes that are now taking place, and the reality that industry is facing. It's bad for them: those who lose their job, and those who are referred to temporary employment or jobs in so-called temporary employment agencies, who run and hire the workforce with varying degrees of seriousness. I want to spend some time saying that this is bad for society as a whole and bad for the companies that are involved. The competitiveness of Norway is very much based on the fact that we have companies with highly skilled workforce and workforce that are adaptable to take the necessary ceilings when it comes to gaining new skills, taking courses and working effectively to ensure the competitiveness of businesses. The links between the enterprise and the employee that we have today are weakened when you get a smaller degree of nuclear labour and a greater degree of unemployment on the outside of this. It weakens the ability of companies to compete. In the election campaign, I was visiting Frank Mohn Fusa, a company that produces and sells expensive products in a tough international market, and that survives. Their philosophy in this area is that they will never hire labour, and they will never take in temporary labour. They want to ensure that they have the labour they have by taking in apprentices and following them up, and having their own employees all the way, because it strengthens the corporate culture and it strengthens competitiveness. It has made it possible for this group to become world leaders with – to say the least – well-paid industrial workers producing and following them into the markets. It's been a success story. It's based on the Norwegian model. It's about to be weakened during this government, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e418	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate. High employment is at the heart of the sustainability of our welfare society, and therefore it is always an important objective and an important instrument for strengthening Norwegian competitiveness. We are facing major challenges. As the Prime Minister pointed out, the Labour Party and the Right stand together on the pension reform, which was one response to these challenges, but it was far from well enough in the work of the previous government to strengthen Norwegian jobs. That's why it was important that the country got a new course. It also shows the posts, I think, from the red-green here today. Neither in the post of the inter-pellant nor to the other representatives of the Workers' Party has – almost not at all – been given any emphasis on transport and on the construction of infrastructure. High employment depends on high activity in the transport sector. Therefore, it is so surprising that the bet on traffic is almost not mentioned from this pulpit today. Yes, in fact, spending on transportation is one of the most important things we do to contribute to high employment. That's why I'm so happy that we have a government that has lifted transportation as one of its most important projects. It's in the construction industry that we only notice when the economy relaxes. That's where the first permits and cancellations come in, and once it starts a decline in a sector, it can spread easily to others. That's why it's so important that this government is ambitious about transportation, and it's going to build infrastructure across the country, and it's so obvious that you want to raise even more projects than the previous government put up. It is an important measure to contribute to high employment. This government will also implement a number of important structural changes that the previous government did not wish to initiate. In an interpellation debate that we had in this room just a few hours ago, the topic was the practice of distributing contracts in the free market for railway maintenance, and that it gives little predictability to the contractors. Small predictability means that there may be notices and notices of leave. Therefore, it was so important that the Minister of Transport could tell yesterday that in the 2014 letter of allocation he asked the Railway Agency to facilitate greater predictability for entrepreneurs, which means greater predictability for employees and more stable employment over the year. Similarly, we have seen in other parts of the transport industry. The Association of Machine Entrepreneurs recently presented its economic survey survey. It showed that the trend in the construction industry is that businesses look after the spring and cancel in the autumn, before they recruit again in the spring. This type of fluctuation is unfortunate for the companies, for the employees and for the employees. This is another example of the need for structural changes, for example: in the transport sector, and this government is in the process of doing so. For the 60,000 6-year-olds as if a couple of months were going to start school, it's getting the chance to survive in life no matter who the mother and father are, one of the most important things we politicians can do. That is why I am so pleased that the Right and Advance Party together with the Christian People's Party and Left promises and clearly prioritize school, knowledge, higher education and research. This is a new course, and nothing helps to strengthen competitiveness better than the commitment of the cooperation parties to knowledge. It provides individual opportunities and security for themselves and their families, but it also contributes to high employment and value creation across the country. I am pleased with this effort and this new course. The government has shown that it is running, and that it will continue to bet on it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e437	Today's interpellation is about the most important task that politicians have, namely to secure a job and their own income that enables people to live well and economically safe lives. Work for all is the foundation of our welfare society. High unemployment, low wages and poor conditions in the labour market lead to poverty, large income disparities and inequality. In the wake of it, we find social distress, drug abuse, increased violence, crime and other social problems. Because that's how people react when there's no need for them, when they don't experience a real chance to use their abilities and competences. And when injustice becomes obvious and striking and many people are not given the opportunity to create a good life for themselves and their families, the social problems come. Education, innovation and research are one of the most important things we can invest in to protect a society from increasing unemployment. Therefore, it is good that we in Norway have such broad agreement that this approach is important, despite the fact that individual representatives in the Right believe that it is something they have monopoly on. We all want to spend a lot of money in school. We all want to make the profession better and the drop-off less. We will all bet on research, innovation and innovation. But we'll find some inequalities. Yesterday's decision, against the votes of the Red-Green and Christian People's Party, to open up an exception clause in the private school law for some schools is an indication of what's coming next year. Then the government will open up a right to start private school not on a particular basis, but freely. It's not a step in the right direction. It has a self-esteem in Norway that we have a good public school system that makes most people apply to their local secondary school where they live. This is where all children meet – regardless of income, regardless of social background or resources of their parents. In this school a community is built and a knowledge of each other that gives us a strength as a society. It's about having a great deal of trust in each other, that we're a people with mutual respect for each other, more independent of social status and rank in society than in very many other countries. We set values that are equidistant, and the school becomes the arena where this is actually going to happen. In other words, school policy is not just about hours, grades, school construction and counselling; school policy is also about shaping society. For a social democrat, this has a strong value in itself, but as the concept of the Norwegian/Nordic model has developed, it has become more clear that this has also given a success to Norwegian business. It feels a long time ago, but in the 1990s many discussed whether they were in favour of or against globalisation, as if there were any choices. Many were afraid of what international competition would mean for these countries north of Europe, with precious welfare services and high tax levels. Surprisingly, however, the Nordic countries have lower unemployment rates than most other countries, despite the high level of taxation. If you talk to leaders in the Norwegian industry, the answer is clear: we deliver on quality, and that quality is achieved because we have a culture where it is common for workers, regardless of the level of the organisation, to take responsibility, make decisions and express their opinion. Or as Gunvor Ulstein, CEO of Ulstein Group, has said: I don't want employees who just reproduce knowledge, but people who have better solutions and who contradict me. In most other countries, they have a hierarchy at work that becomes a threat to innovation and innovation. Why is that? There may be a lot of reasons for that, but I think one of the reasons is that we have a culture in Norway where equality and respect stand strongly, and where we associate closely in school, despite having different backgrounds and coming from different homes. Some politicians think that a good school is just about getting the best in mathematics or in basic skills. Of course, basic skills in real science and language are important, but quality in school is also about creativity, cooperation, innovation, migration and problem solving – skills that are not easy to test or measure, but that are important for Norwegian value creation. The knowledge policy of the Workers' Party is about this combination. We insist that basic skills are most important, but that does not mean that students should not be creative and innovative. In particular, these characteristics are important for the business life of the future. We have an unsolved potential for innovation, research and development in Norway, too much of the research does not reach commercialisation. The share of industry in research is too low. We could have had higher scores on the innovation indices. In the areas where researchers, innovators, entrepreneurs and investors work closely together, we find the most innovative and innovative environments. Such environments are similar to ecosystems where a variety of small and large actors seek to find each other to develop something new. We have a few such arenas in Norway, and we should learn from these clusters. They're too few. A wise lady once said that everything is related to everything. This debate shows that there are a lot of factors that need to be taken into account if we are to combat unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e458	The aim of the Stoltenberg government was that Norway should have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and put forward a number of measures to achieve this objective. The interpellant indicates that getting everyone to work is not the only thing in the Ministry of Labour that can be busy. Most departments are involved in setting framework conditions that contribute to high or low employment, depending on their design. Full childcare coverage allows young children’s parents to combine family life with professional life. Cash support contributes to the opposite. An active enterprise policy creates more workspaces than an empty toolbox. Public health efforts to improve the health of people are better resource use than tax cuts and hanging engines. Employment policy is cross-sectoral, he is superior, because he is so fundamental that the gears of Norwegian society continue to go around. It's that people are at work, the daily work, which is the basis of our well-being. A job provides opportunities for individuals to support themselves and contribute to society. Hence, perhaps our most important freedom project is keeping unemployment low. One member of the labour force is tripartite cooperation – the close contact between employees, employers and authorities. It is not only important in wage-setting, but it contributes to good solutions in industrial policy, in welfare policy, in labour market policy, and not least when we have societal challenges, such as: financial crisis. In major issues such as pension reform, cooperation is crucial. Similarly, the Norwegian model with strong and modern public welfare, small pay differentials and an organised working life is decisive for high employment. Our social security network, combined with employee participation, creates innovation and it promotes adaptability. This means that companies are afraid to bet, and this means that more jobs are created. After six months of close political vacuum, the government is now seriously flagged in employment policy. Through e.g. increasing the cash support and weakening the permit regime, the government shows that it does not understand what the interpellant here today points to, that all government councils have responsibilities that affect the employment situation. It is particularly serious at a time when there are dark clouds over the labour market and where the trend is that unemployment is rising. Equally serious is the fact that the government apparently doesn't understand or maybe doesn't care about the gamblers in the world of work. The Work Environment Act is important for people’s health, working life and employment. This suggests that the government should now weaken without having discussed it properly with the social partners first. So not only increases an employer's ability to juggle with the workers' rights, but one does it behind the back of the organized working life. Challenges to the organization of the labour market, to challenge the Norwegian model of working life in this way, while consistently printing out the wrong medicine in all areas that affect employment policy, make it a little difficult for me to understand the answer from the Prime Minister here today. As I see it, the map doesn't match the terrain. For the time being, either a seat is quiet in the boat and has seen that unemployment increases, or has a proposal for measures that would make the labour market situation worse. As I see it, it does not particularly harmonize with the Prime Minister's stated goal of ensuring low unemployment and high employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e471	I thank you for the debate and especially for the fact that the Prime Minister has participated in the debate on interpellence in Stortinget. It's not every day it happens. But then there was also an attempt to have an overall debate on links leading to an important objective. I am very pleased with what the representative Syvertsen said about employment figures. Because the most important figure is actually the proportion of the population who are at work. And there we in Norway have very much reason to be proud, not primarily of the oil fund, but of the Norwegian women. For the Norwegian women had participated in the professional life on an equal footing with the women in Europe, the Norwegian oil fund had not lasted a long time. So the employment rate is so important. That's why family policy is also incredibly important, mainly because it's of course important to the family, but also because it does something about society's ability to give people the opportunity to work. I am also pleased that the representative Syvertsen said that productivity should not be at the expense of people's lives either. In the Workers' Party we tend to say that everyone should have a job to live with, but you also have to have a working life to live with. That's why we're sceptical about some of the changes that are now proposed in the Working Environment Act. So finally, two things that I think are important for employment policy in the future, both of which are about the Norwegian model. One is the common school, which the representative of the Aasen was now thoroughly and well into – the incredible importance it has, the community feeling it gives that Ulstein employee dares to speak to the boss on an equal footing because they have a common goal of getting it used to go. It has incredible value. That's why I'm so concerned about the ideologically based approach to the privatisation of primary school. And I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party yesterday voted against the proposal, which, unfortunately, was adopted, to start that process. – There is one of the core values in the Norwegian model. Another core value of the Norwegian model is cooperation between the parties. People from many countries in the world electives to Norway to learn from that model of cooperation. The Holden Committee points out that it is one of the major factors in being able to succeed. It's not that we're going to realise the community of competences; Norway has a very strong community of competences today. We have a lot of nice people around the companies and at all levels. That is why the UN can say that we have the world's most productive labour force – not because it is cheap, but because it is productive. So the community of competences is important, and cooperation is important. The government is now choosing completely new forms of cooperation. Because that's what the government is doing in relation to the work environment law: not to cooperate with the parties, but to inform them that they can be heard at a hearing. That's a whole new way. It's not the other country that envys us. The government must find a new way here if we are not to undermine the Norwegian model. Otherwise, I am happy with the common goals we have and hope we can continue to discuss across party boundaries the most important challenge that society has to face, that people should have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e488	I would like to thank you for an inter-pelling debate that clarified both the political positions and the political horizon of many of the participants. Long-term sustainability was probably not the most pronounced in some interventions, and it is the long-term challenges that are the main challenge for employment and for the well-being of Norway. This is the question of how to create competitiveness in the years to come, which is crucial for whether we have full employment or not. Taking hold of that development should be a common priority if we believe that employment is important, because that is where the challenges are going to lie. Let me just comment on a couple of articles. If sending at the hearing suggestions from a government is to go behind the backs of people in working life, I think you need to take a course on how democracy works in Norway. I think Else-May Botten's articles about Gunvor and Ulstein's conversation at the store were illustrative for what I have said for many years: it is important that management and workers have close contact, but it is also important that the owners are present in the local environment. Much of the debate on taxes on wealth, which is an important framework for development in the years to come, is about this. I fully agree that one of the most important things – as Marianne Aasen also said – is the challenge that when people experience that they are not using their cancers, they create health and social problems. That is why this government is so high-priority that we are going to make sure that those who are out of work have an opportunity to come in. We have skilled jobs in Norway. This means that investing in an employee is quite demanding, and much of what an employer does. That is why employers are so busy keeping the workforce they have. But they're also very scared when they're going to hire a new one. That's why the entrance – to show that you can – is important, and that's why we come up with some suggestions related to temporary staff. In this debate, I have heard more from the Workers' Party say that work for everyone is the most important job. It's been a little confusing this spring for me to know if that's what it is. Because I have seen that the Workers' Party has now flashed out new political priorities for 2015-2017. They have chosen three areas such as their main issues, and for the first time in history, work is not among the three areas – education, climate and health. At best, it is likely that work for everyone has now become job number four, since at least it is not a priority task for the central government of the Workers' Party in 2015-2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e508	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e524	I would like to highlight the challenges we face in Norway with the export of Norwegian welfare services. First, it's important to establish that the problem isn't really huge now, what worries me, is the huge growth we've had in the last eight to ten years. In Norway, we have many well-being goods financed by taxpayers. There is a broad political consensus in this room that we should have a society in which we should as far as possible facilitate each one's self-sufficiency, but at the same time we should have a safety net that captures those who, for various reasons, fall through. Then it is also important that we have a safety net that does not become like a net that makes you get caught in the benefits you may receive, but that we ensure that we have benefits that actually make it possible to get up and down in life, as far as possible. But if we are to be able to ensure these basic welfare benefits, to which we are all positive, we must also guarantee legitimacy for the benefits and ensure that the broad group of the population is willing to participate in this fundamental fissure layer. We must, not least, ensure that the benefits we give have the necessary legitimacy and also the sustainability that you need. We see that many countries are starting to face challenges because of it. benefits are for cost-required in relation to income. Then it's important that we make sure that we correct the benefits we have, as directly as possible to those we actually believe should have these benefits, and always have a good review, so that the benefits reach those who really need them. I think it's scary to look at the growth we've had in social security exports. In 2004, social security exports were just over 4 billion. kr. This is a number that increased every year under the red-green government, and after eight years with the red-green government, the number was almost doubled. The last number I've seen is just over $7.5 billion. kr. It's a significant growth. Then I would think that you would take action to limit this growth in social security exports. Unfortunately, I did not see any action by the previous government to limit that export – on the contrary. These include: The progress party raised this issue, we were sometimes told that this was not a problem, at other times we were told that it was not something we could do with it. You wash your hands and let this go on. It is frightening to see the rising trend, and there are several reasons why social security exports have increased. One reason is that we've got a more open Europe, with more open borders, where people move more. We also see that we have seen a growth in social security exports because Norway has led a very liberal immigration policy and an integration policy that has not worked. It has contributed to a growth. I believe that most in Norway agree with me when I say that Norwegian welfare benefits should mainly go to Norwegian citizens or others who live and work in Norway, because I think few understand that Norwegian welfare benefits should be exported – especially in cases where they are exported to persons who have barely been in Norway. There has been a lot of public debate about social security exports. Once we've addressed the topic, there's someone who's tried to create an impression that the Progress Party wants to prevent, for example. age pensioners in being able to take their well-earned retirement pension abroad. That's wrong. The Progress Party is quite clear that old-age pensions are not a benefit you get. It is money you have paid in yourself through a long professional life, and now you get back the pension you have contributed to pay in. Of course, you have to be free to live wherever you want with that pension. But it is interesting that in the other benefits exported, such as redundancy payments, daily allowances, cash support and other schemes for families with young children, we also see strong growth. As I said, we also see that the problem is growing. In the EU, based on principles of free movement and labour, welfare systems themselves are now too often becoming a motivation for migration and immigration. This leads to a burden on welfare systems, and especially in those countries that have well-developed welfare systems, such as Norway. However, this issue is not just a matter for the Progress Party. In Sweden this week, the Swedish Prime Minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt, the British Prime Minister, David Cameron, the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, and the Dutch Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, discussed how to stop this problem of social security exports. The United Kingdom has put in place a major effort to look at how European legislation can limit this. I am also pleased that Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson has addressed this issue in a commendable manner, including in meetings with colleagues in other countries. Many may now indicate that we will have new rules within the EU to prevent the exploitation of these systems. This is important for economic reasons, but also to ensure the fairness of the systems. I think it is important that we devote ourselves to the work that is being done in many other countries in Europe, but also that we look at how we can ensure that the well-being that we have in Norway, with its own rules, can be reserved for Norwegian citizens and others who work and live in Norway. This issue deserves more attention. Not least, the concrete action deserves to be taken. We see that the challenge is growing. Then you cannot sit quietly in the boat, which you have unfortunately done for too many years. Therefore, my question becomes to the Council of State how he will respond to this challenge of social security exports. Will the government follow up on the work now being done in other countries, with a view to tightening up where possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e552	Let me first thank the inter-pellant for putting an important debate on the agenda, a debate that is not just going on in Norway, but is also going on – as the inter-pellant says – in many other countries. In the Government Platform, the Right-Fremskritsparte government has said that it should consider measures limiting or stopping social security exports within the scope of the action provided for by international agreements. Norway is among the countries of Europe with the highest population growth. Immigration explains two thirds of the growth we have in Norway. Labour immigration is the largest category of immigration between 2006 and today. This means that most people who come to Norway through immigration are immigrants who want to work in Norway. We also use many of them very well in Norwegian employment. They are with and create well-being, growth and values. If we take the SSB's 2012 figure, we see that net immigration is 47 000 people. 45 pst. of which are work immigrants. If we look at the export of benefits, it's right that the interpellant points to: It's grown. The last numbers we have -- I want to say from this speaker that there's also uncertainty about the numbers, because we don't have a good enough number base and a good enough statistics -- show that it's about 7.5 billion. kr exported. In general, the largest proportion of exports is old-age pension and disability pension — if we combine the two benefits. At the same time, as the Brochmann Committee also says in its report, which was presented in 2011, that if we are to maintain the sustainability of our welfare society in the future, we depend on immigrants who come to Norway to participate in the same way in employment – also in the long term. And at the same time, it's important to be able to organize and arrange our performances in such a way that they become harder to export. Let me do some examples. I have a lot of understanding that most people have trouble understanding the following: Let's take a worker from Europe who has had family there – wife, children – and then he experiences divorce. Then he thinks who saw, even after an uplifting divorce where he is alone – the children are with mother: now I can go out into Europe and get new jobs, try me. I've always dreamed of going out and trying other things. I'm going to Norway. I know Norway needs labour. Then he travels to Norway, and then his child and divorced wife get child welfare because he works in Norway. I understand that most people are struggling to understand – they are struggling to understand the logic and the sense of it. I can say that the Council of State is also struggling to understand the sense of it. That's how you could go through more benefits. I think it is important to respect two principles. One thing, and the government platform on which it is based, is that we are in favour of labour immigration. We want those who want to come to Norway and can contribute to the Norwegian labour society to have the opportunity to do so. At the same time, it is important that we establish mechanisms to maintain the sustainability of our welfare society, and – not least – to create legitimacy and understanding in the Norwegian population. We are not talking about excluding anyone in Norway from welfare benefits – it should only be lacking in a worker coming from Estonia, Poland, Germany, England or whatever it may be: if he is unemployed and here in Norway, he should have the same leave as all of us. It was just supposed to be missing! At the same time, it may seem a little incomprehensible that you can take with you, including the Nordics, the welfare benefits, the daily allowances, for example, to another country. The EEA Agreement opens this up. The EEA Agreement says that benefits can be included, and jobseekers can be found throughout the EEA territory. It's positive and good. But when you take a benefit – when Arne Olsen or Kari Nordmann take their daily allowance – down to Spain, where there is huge unemployment and the likelihood of getting a job is very small, and where you are required to be a jobseeker, but without being followed up if you are a jobseeker or not, you can ask the question: Is it a real jobseeker who has taken the money out, or not? I'm not saying we're going to implement it, I'm not saying that it's possible, but then one of the things that the government is assessing can be to see if there's any room for action within the EEA Agreement to find schemes that allow you to adjust the benefits involved, according to the standard of living of the country you're going to. Is it possible to sit down and look at this, and negotiate with other European countries now when there is a debate related to this: What benefits should it be possible to export? Do you want to see if it's possible to limit it? Are there any things you can renegotiate in an agreement? You look for that space of action – I think it is important to look for that space of action. I want to take an example that has not happened, but that was the subject of debate when I was in Athens at an informal ministerial meeting of labour and social ministers. Today, you have three months' day money. One of the proposals was to increase it to be a jobseeker for six months. The EU had not taken a decision on this. But I know that Denmark, like the undersigned, was very concerned not to do so. The Danish Minister met on that very point, in order to say that it is necessary to ensure that no arrangements are made to ensure that the aim is more to obtain welfare benefits than that the objective is real work. I think it's important principles that you also have to bring with you. That is why, at the end of May, I have already had a meeting with the Swedish Minister for Labour and Social Affairs – Sweden is an EU country – where we have discussed welfare exports. I record through social media that the English Prime Minister, to whom the interpellant refers, has also been there. I have also agreed to meet the Danish Minister over the summer to have discussions on how to strengthen, improve and maintain the sustainability of our Nordic welfare support, while having the freedom to cross-border and take up work. How to limit exports will be one of the themes. These are things I look at with my Nordic colleagues. I'm taking it up, and I want us to get a good understanding in the Nordic region – a good understanding of how we can deal with the problem. I see that the debate is taking place in many countries. I think it is important that the Nordic countries as such have legitimacy, because we have large and robust welfare societies that are comparable and equal, and that make all the other countries look to the Nordic model as well. I think it makes the Nordic countries perhaps more powerful in showing the challenge of welfare exports than many other countries in Europe. It is, as I said, a matter that I and the government are constantly working on, but I am asking for understanding that we want to find space for action. We look at what space of action we have, and we want to take good and wise action, but within the agreements we have. And we're looking at the possibility of renegotiating some of the agreements. We have to get back to that. It's a comprehensive job, it's a job that requires a lot of resources and a lot of work, and you can't find simple quick win solutions. I don't think that's useful either. I think the most important thing is to be aware of the debate and the challenge presented by the Brochmann Committee, and meet it with good suggestions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e588	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State shares the concern I have for the growth of welfare exports, and that the Council of State is ready to go through all the different areas in order to limit the unintended social security exports. The councils were within several moments. One, in which I fully agree with the Council of State, is that one of the most important steps we can actually take is to get the large group of immigrants in Norway out to work here in Norway. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State is now taking action and, at the end of the month, putting out consultation to make working life more flexible for more groups that are far too out of work today – that is, to keep the door open to many of those who currently receive different benefits – and to ensure that they can work and finance themselves and their families. The Council of State also refers to the Brochmann Committee. Much of what I'm dealing with in the interpellation is a follow-up to what the Brochmann committee is quite clear on in its conclusions. I am pleased that the Council of State addresses the challenge of job-seekers in other countries – whether or not they are real job-seekers – and that it is also possible to look at the scope for action there, and whether or not it is possible to adjust some of the benefits, so that it is less lucrative to leave Norway with Norwegian welfare goods. I fully understand that there is no quick fix on this issue. I am reassured when the Council of State says that he will look at the scope for action against EEA law and other legislation in order to limit this. In particular, the Council of State is aware that, if necessary, there will also be a possibility to renegotiate any agreements that are to prevent the sustainability and legitimacy of key Norwegian welfare goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e601	I think the interpellant says very much wisely. My political heart is very close to listening to him. I guess it's not that nice when we come from the same party. I think he points to two-three important things. First of all, it is important that every person, including a retired person, has the freedom to travel where you want with the money you have paid and earned as a right through a long professional life. We should be proud that we have arrangements that make it possible, and we want a global free society with free movement. I am a little afraid that I might be misunderstood in my first post: I think it is very good that we have arrangements and opportunities to travel to other countries and apply for a job and have an income insurance policy, that is, that you can take a daily allowance. But if you travel with a daily allowance to a low-cost country and the daily allowance is more than what you want to earn, I think the probability of applying for a job will be much less than if you have a daily allowance base that is in line with the cost level in the country. If that's possible, something we have to check out, and we have to look at how it's going to be attacked. This is one of the things you're looking at. I think it is very important to stress – as it says in our platform – that the government wants to go through the welfare systems. We want an overall follow-up of the Brochmann Committee. We record that the previous government started the Brochmann Committee, got the report, put it in a drawer and did nothing more with it. We believe that there are many good things in the Brochmann Committee's report – many good descriptions of what we can meet in the future. That's why it's worth taking up the report, going through it and finding out how we're going to meet this to ensure robust, fair, good welfare arrangements for those who need it the most, while at the same time getting a good, inclusive working life and opportunities for everyone to come to Norway and work and contribute. This is why it is important that we manage to get more employment — more into the labour market. We know that we are struggling to get immigrants into the labour market in the same way that those born and raised in Norway. It worries me. I have met many capable, good immigrants who are outside the labour market, and we need to be much more good at following up and getting into the labour market. They can contribute to increased productivity and help build on our welfare society. We need that, we're dependent on that. That is why it is so important that we succeed in getting more people to work and less in social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e612	In 2012, a total of 7.5 billion disappeared. kr to the rest of the world as social security exports. There is a number that has caused both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance to strongly warn against Norwegian social security schemes being exploited by labour migrants. Also the interpellant Wiborg is busy with this. He urgently calls for action, and he calls for tightening up from his party traps in the government, and the government has warned that she will tighten up the possibilities of withdrawing Norwegian social security abroad and evaluate cost adjustment. The Minister of Labour has also said that he wants to bring together his Nordic colleagues in the fight against an EU proposal on the right of the unemployed to take their daily allowances to low-cost countries. One should not search for such a long time until a finder from the current representative Eriksson states how easy it is to tighten into the social security export only the Progress Party will be in government. Even if we were not as eager as the current government, it is right that the Labour Party in our government period also assessed the possibility of cost adjustment of social security benefits. But the truth, as I think the government has also figured out, is that here it's not just tightening into a handshake. We are part of a common labour market through the EEA Agreement and thus our relationship with the EU. There are many Nordics working in other EEA countries who benefit from EU social security export rules if they travel or move home to Norway. This immediately makes things worse for a government that will kill the day-to-day exporters. But if one goes into this statistics, I think it's obvious that the interpellant takes a little bit of a hard time drawing the challenge picture for social security exports. The number shows that of the 7.5 billion. kr exported to the rest of the world in 2012 exceeded 90 pst. to the Nordics, by the fact that old-age pensions and invalidity pensions are taken abroad by the well over 50,000 Norwegian pensioners who live abroad. It's probably not the government that wants to live. This social security export that the government settles with war types is, as I see it, a very marginal problem, but it may look like it fits into the rhetoric of a government that can go into the throat of both immigrants and social security at once. It's an honest thing to be busy not to abuse the social security system, but it's not quite so real to blow a little problem out of all proportions to score political points. If the government wants to do something that really monies to make it difficult to exploit welfare arrangements, they can start by reverseing the grips they took in the budget for 2014. We in the Workers' Party will not categorically refuse to discuss and make a cost adjustment for some of the benefits, but we believe that the most important thing is to turn the welfare system from cash benefits to services. The simplest measure against the export of cash support is to liquidate it once and for all, and it is impossible to export a nursery place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e629	I would also like to thank my colleague in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for the interpellation that puts the spotlight on a very important issue. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a very good and very reassuring answer. All of us who are concerned about the topic were happy to hear that this is high on the government’s agenda – very, very good. As the representative of Wiborg refers to, the SSB has figures that welfare exports are increasing. That's probably not the big numbers in relation to the total amount we pay in social security benefits. But what is very important is that the increase in payments to the rest of the world of some of these benefits is very large. Some would argue that there is still not much money. But then they completely forget that the increase is very strong and very big, and if we don't change the system now -- if we're not a little pretended before it's too late -- the numbers will just be a lot, a lot bigger. And not only are the numbers getting bigger, because there will then be more that will receive these benefits, but the resistance to change and tightening will also be much stronger and greater. At the forefront, it must be allowed to say that Norway cannot become a kind of social office in the world. We have a very well-developed social safety network in Norway – and of course most people are very happy – and this safety network rests on several pillars. One of the most important pillars is that there must be a balance between how many people pay, how much they get into the community box, and how many people receive money from this community, and especially from benefits. It must be a sustainability and an economic sense in this. It is also important that the control mechanisms should not become too large and too burdensome. And they will necessarily – it can happen quickly – if there are a lot of people who want to take advantage of these welfare schemes. The money is basically taxpayers’ money – it is important to remember – and taxpayers expect the real need to receive benefits. At the same time, they expect that the schemes are not open to unnecessary good, and they can be unnecessaryly good when the schemes are rigged for as high a level of living costs as we have in Norway, and that the money and funds are then spent in countries where they reach significantly longer. For me, it also becomes a little problematic when welfare schemes are used to actively prevent the integration of immigrants, and we therefore need to look at ways to organise welfare systems in order to meet those who really need it — while at the same time contributing to the least possible exploitation, especially of those who might rather be actively contributing in society with value creation to Norwegian society, and to most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e646	Interpellant joins a European trend, at least a trend in rich European countries, which is to be very busy with these so-called welfare tourisms. Both in Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom, leading politicians have used very harsh words against immigrants from other EU countries who burden the welfare system, and take welfare rights with them when they move home. This was also an important theme of the European elections in the same countries. The question of social security exports is in many ways the perfect political attack target. By talking about it, one can give the impression that one is tough on welfare experts and at the same time is a bit of immigration and EEA-critical – a real political cheek egg, in other words. The question is, how big is this problem? Since many have been so very concerned about it, it has to be about large sums and about a threat to the welfare state. This is a truth with great modifications. In 2012, total social security exports, i.e. well-being crowns issued by the country, approximately 6 billion. kr. It's a pretty big sum, almost as much as the bill for the moon landing project in Mongstad. It is right that the representative Wiborg says that since 2004, social security exports have increased, but it probably has little to do with the red-green government. I'm actually going to say that it has nothing to do with the red-green government. It has to do with EEA cooperation – for which the Progress Party is otherwise. Since 2004, the EEA has had 13 new member countries. We have been through a global financial crisis, a European debt crisis, and we have had record high labour migration to Norway to meet the demand in the Norwegian labour market. It might be useful to mention that 78 pst. Among those who received this social security in 2012, there were age pensioners. If you add non-pensioners, you're over 90 pst. Among them, Norwegian citizens are not only the largest group, they are more than all other nationalities together. So most of the so-called social security exports go to Ola and Kari Nordmann, as a new pensioner's existence, for example. the Spanish Sun coast. Something tells me that it's not the group that the Progress Party has in mind when they're about to raise this debate. The very large increase that's going to be talked about also applies mainly to pension payments, as we also see here at home. What about other statements? Well, we can frighten by the fact that a total of 600 foreigners abroad received unemployment benefits in 2012 – under 1 pst. of the total payments – or at 24 million. kr was exported in the form of daily allowance – 0,22 pst. of the total. So what about cash support, which is so often the prime embroiderer? In March 2013, a total of 20,385 people received cash support. 748 of them were foreigners with children living in another EEA country. Two thirds were Polish. This is 3.7 pst. And it was down from 3.9 pst. The year before, so it doesn't go up – it goes down. We're talking about a total of 30 million. kr. The solution to that problem is actually quite simple: now that we have nearly full child care coverage, we can consider abolishing cash support, which is easily exportable, if one sees it as a problem, and there is no reason to hold on to a welfare system that targets equality and integration. Of course, it is an important objective to reduce social security benefits – Nordics and foreigners – and, of course, it is an objective that everyone should be engaged in useful work, but compared to the enormous values and growth that workers in Norway have contributed to through work in construction, tourism, health and other sectors, social security exports are a minimal problem. The left has to be with and discuss how we set up our welfare systems, both for the Nordics and others, but we have to guard ourselves well to move towards a system that can be so difficult and bureaucratic that it prevents labour and mobility – it is absolutely crucial for Europe to increase, not to shrink. This discussion is, in any case, a discussion of home affairs at European level. As the Council of State was in, this is the common rule, on which Norway is party by means of the EEA Agreement. This does not mean that they cannot be changed, but that means that the government must do an active job of influencing at European level. It is, of course, difficult as a non-voting foreign country, but it is still possible to influence and express its position, and it is in itself good that the Council of State expresses its wish to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e667	As many people have said, this is a question that very many countries are concerned about. It is also worth noting what some speakers have said earlier about this pulpit, that social security exports are a little bloated – and that is proof of it. We see that many of them are our own, adult people, who have built the country, who bring their social security and go abroad. Yes, we also see famous people, who have also stood on this pulpit, who live abroad – a bit reasonable and warm – but when they need health care, they come back to Norway and get the best quality. That's it. But it's also a fact that others take advantage of this, and it reacts to it. The Labour and Social Committee was recently visiting Finnmark, and then we were in Hammerfest and got a briefing from the tax administration and Nav. We got an introduction to how this works in practice, that foreign workers who have worked for some time in Norway are being permitted or terminated, or on redundancy payments, and the rules say they should be real job seekers if they are unemployed. Then we have a new reporting system, where you can just as easily sit in Japan and send in message cards over the Internet. You cannot have any control, were the feedback we received on how real jobseekers they are. So here's some things to do with the law. But at least we got an introduction that it's actually part of this, and we have to do something about it. Then the Council of State comes here and says that there are some laws and regulations that we've been through – including the EEA – that prevent us from doing what we really want to do here on the mountain. SV believes that the compensations, the social security schemes, for example: child welfare and cash support — as long as it will last — should go to people living in Norway. When it is that there are other rules and laws that prevent us from doing anything about this, I look at you president, and I look at the painting with the Eidsvollsmen, and then I say, "Deliver me from the EEA!" Give me Norwegian permission!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e680	The most useful thing about this debate I think has been to conclude that of the approx. 7.5 B.C.E. kr, most of the time no one wants to do anything about, age pension and disability pension. Ola and Kari Nordmann shall be able to live outside the borders of the country and enjoy their days. And to the extent that this has increased – and it has – it is at least not due to the EEA, and at least it is not due to the red-green government, but it is due to increased well-being. We're getting richer, and we're using the freedom that that wealth gives us to live outside the borders of the country on our older days. And where's it going? According to an overview in the Evening Post, which is probably some years old, but I don't think it has changed so much, Sweden is the largest country where we export social security. Then it's the United States, Spain, Denmark – and it's all over the world. So what are we really talking about? The only example that has been mentioned here is child welfare and cash support, and then you add: and certainly something else. But what ‘certainly something else’ is remains to be told. So SV's spokesman here says that child welfare is going to go to children in Norway. Yes, we can probably do that, but that means that children of Norwegian diplomats, children of Norwegian milionaires, children of Norwegian businessmen who take jobs outside the country, do not get child welfare – we must agree – because we do not have the right to discriminate against nationality. It is the core of EEA legislation. The cash support is easy to do with. It turns out that kindergarten places are much better than cash transfers. I think the council has to go home and check the law, and at least how Nav practices it. Because the legislation is that if as a Polish carpenter you have worked up your daily allowance and become unemployed, you can get daily pay in Norway, but then you have to stay in Norway, then you have to stand at the disposal of Nav. Then you can travel to Poland. I'll give you money from Poland. And then there's some such "snacksy" things around so-called real and improper frontier hikers, but in that case, it's Swedish, and it's a little bit of a problem. So the council says we should look at this within the agreement, and I am pleased, but he adds: and renegotiates the agreement. And then everyone thinks about the EEA Agreement, but it's not the EEA Agreement that's the most comprehensive; it's the Helsinki Agreement. Nordic cooperation is the most extensive, for within it we give residents from our Nordic neighbouring country full rights from day one! The Helsingsforsag agreement states: ‘that a national of a Nordic country, while residing in another Nordic country, shall benefit as much as possible from the social benefits provided in the country of residence of its own nationals.’;» [[...]] So what the government is warning here is a change of Nordic policy. In Nordic cooperation, we are constantly setting up the Commission to look for border barriers. They try to take away everything that can make it difficult and difficult to live across the Nordics, and then we go far into social security systems, day-care systems, etc. to see if it can be harmonised. If that's what the government's warning is, I'd say it's quite eye-catching. It'll be a whole new line. I think it was Rotevatn who used the term ‘welfare tourism’, which also goes back to this debate. I have to say that the association I get when I hear the term ‘welfare tourism’ is the Nordics with well-filled wallets on my way south this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e700	I would like to thank you for the debate, although I think there are too many who debat the challenge – at least the trends in the challenge. First Fredric Holen Bjørdal, and then finally the representative Svein Roald Hansen, tried to marginalize this challenge. I have to say it is a little strange: what representatives of the Labour Party should you listen to? For Bjørdal, the Labour Party was initially not so concerned with the problem when they put in government, and that this was a very marginal problem. At the same time, we see that former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has said that this is a significant challenge and a concern, which he felt was important. You have to decide eventually whether this is just a marginal problem that you shouldn't care about, or whether to listen to the current party leader in the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg. The representative of Sveinung Rotevatern noted that this is a European trend and that the signatories too are taking part in the European trend. Yes, that is quite correct, because this is a challenge that it is important that we take seriously, and this is a debate that is going on in many other European countries. If we are to be able to preserve the welfare state, and if we are to be able to ensure good, safe and important well-being, we must ensure the sustainability of those well-being goods and we must ensure their legitimacy. That's why I and the Progress Party are taking this up, and that's why the government is concerned about this. The representative Rotevatn also said that the red-greens have no responsibility for this. Of course, a large debate can be held on where the responsibility lies, and a lot of it is, of course, about the EEA Agreement, but this is also about the fact that there has been considerable immigration outside the EEA over many years and a lack of integration policy – which also contributes to the growth we see in social security exports. This is largely also about immigration, and then it is about whether we get unintended immigration. I believe that the important thing for us in Norway is that the immigration we get to Norway is made up of those who have a real need for protection, or those who are going to work. We must not have mechanisms that stimulate people to come here because of good well-being, which can then be taken out of the country again. I am pleased that the government is addressing the problem and is willing to look at different types of solutions, to stop the significant growth we have had and have in social security exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e714	I agree that the big problems do not exist today if you look at the numbers. They did not exist either when they made the pension reform in their time. You could keep the old pension system. At the time, the progressing party felt that it was possible to keep it, and several economists meant the same thing. But then, in time, how would sustainability be in the future? It created the debate. And it's the same way and on the same basis that the Brochmann Committee is setting up its analyses: you have to look at the challenge picture that lies ahead in time and meet it. We have to be foresight and meet the picture that awaits us, with good and correct policies – do not get late. I would like to comment on two things from the representative of Ingebrichsen: He refers to computer systems, and you can sit around the world and send in a report card. The ICT system that Nav has developed in this area, and that was initiated by the previous government, I think is very good. It is a good and modern ICT system. We see that you're revealing more because you have better and more combined controls, and it works better. It is also thanks to improved ICT solutions. So you can't blame the ICT solutions, which have made it possible to reveal more. The representative says, ‘Free me from the EEA!’. Does that mean that when SV was in government, they wanted to leave the EEA Agreement? Does this mean that if SV and the red-greens would once in the future win the election and form the government again, can SV guarantee that they will then withdraw from EEA cooperation? I think the answer is no. I do not want to be liberated from Europe. I don't want to be freed from the world. I want to be part of Europe and the world. But I also want to have national governance of national policies, and the limit of this, we need to sit down and discuss all the time, to find good solutions that will enable us to get a good society. To Svein Roald Hansen, who says that I must check the legislation for the daily allowance: I have. Today, in fact, the law is so that you can apply for a day’s allowance from Nav if you get unemployed – I don’t remember the number on the form, so the representative has to forgive me if I say wrong, but I think it’s E 111 or E 114 – and then you can take the day’s money, the Norwegian benefits, to another EEA country for three months and apply for a job there. The problem is that it is not being followed up, and it is not being properly controlled. You don't have control of that. I also addressed this issue with the then Minister of Labour Bjurstrøm, so it is a well-known issue. Finally, it is said that there are probably several things as well, and that only mention is made of child welfare and cash support. No, there is also educational support for children of people from other countries who have worked here for a short period of time. These children can receive training aid from Norway, although they have never been in Norway. This also applies to daily allowances and various other benefits. We need to look at this in order to prevent exports and unnecessary pressure on our performances, and to ensure the sustainability of our welfare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e740	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e754	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e763	The matter we are dealing with now is a proposal from Else-May Botten, Knut Storberget, Odd Omland and Ingrid Heggø to change the law, so that it is required with a life jacket in a leisure boat. The most interesting thing that has happened in this case is the development that has occurred since the committee gave its opinion. The Committee unquestionably shares the intention of the proposal, which is aimed at saving lives and preventing loss of life at sea. If you look at it a little bit historically, it's been a double of the number of recreational boats since the 1980s. During the same period, the number of persons killed in recreational boating accidents has been halved. I think that is largely due to the fact that it has been focused on safety over a long period of time. There has been a focus on awareness-raising work, and many have been involved and contributed in a positive direction. A little over 80 pst. almost always uses floating equipment on board a boat. It shows that things definitely evolve in the right direction. When promoting a legislative proposal, as the Labour Party has done through this proposal for a representative, the question arises as to when the target group you are looking for. I think, unfortunately, you don't, because basically there's no lack of legislation that causes some people to die at sea. The reason is simply that you don't master the conditions you're in and you don't use reason. And there's also a part that's going to die because you have both high-promille and high-speed, and you'd like to have a combination of these. Here, a law ban really helps very little, I think. If you look at road traffic, there is no lack of legislation that causes people to die in traffic. The reason for this is simply a combination of breaking the laws and regulations that apply, and not controlling the conditions under which you operate. Attitude-making work we think is the right way to do things. Among other things, the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs is working on updating the syllabus for the boat driver’s test, and there is a growing focus on the dangers of speed and accident prevention. This work will be completed in 2014. After the Committee gave its opinion, a request for legal assistance related to the draft representative was submitted to the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The letter of reply that the committee received on 11 June was very interesting. It shows that it was revealed that the proposal submitted by the Workers' Party had a number of weaknesses of a different nature. So it was an incomplete and unclear proposal. I would like to ask the Workers' Party in the future to use more resources to ensure the quality of the work it delivers in advance, and would like to purchase the services that are necessary, if you do not have them, or submit the proposal in good time so that it becomes relevant to the work of the Committee. I also register today that the Workers' Party has promoted a new legislative amendment. Hopefully, it is more precise and more concrete than what was submitted during the presentation of the proposal for a representative. Today there are some proposals that are not in the order, and the Progress Party has the intention to support SV's two proposals in the case. At the same time, I would like to pay tribute to both the SV and the Greens, who have acted both neatly and constructively in the matter, and are forward-looking in the way they deal with it. To introduce a law, it should be a law that is easy to understand. It should be easy to practice, and it should be easy to handle. It is not the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e784	I'm addressing proposal No. 3 on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left immediately, I will not forget it afterwards. We're approaching summer and sun, folks. Boatmates out at sea, I think we're all, and I hope we get good experiences this summer. Not least, I hope everyone gets home safely. It's not often that the opposition makes a bill in the form we've done now, but that's a good reason why we do it. Our proposal is about maritime safety. We're taking care of it, and I'm very happy that there's such a lot of commitment to this case. All the games at Stortinget have been active and have taken their rounds. When we were in government, we reduced a sample consisting of the top experts on maritime safety in the country. There was also a consultation on this, as the sample provided. There were a number of measures that emerged there, but there was one measure that stood out, one that in itself helps one to make the best possible possible, and there was a directive on lifejackets. The content of our proposal is professionally justified. I would like to say that to Mr Korsberg of the Progress Party, who says that our proposal was not really designed. I think that the proposal we made was, at least professionally justified. The Solberg government went out in January and said that they would not make any instructions, and that they had no concrete measures other than that there would be awareness campaigns. But when we see that accident statistics are increasing — it went up by four deaths last year — and that 27 out of 34 who died did not have floating equipment or life jackets on them, it is important to get hold of it. I also see that there are very many men in accident statistics: 91 pst. Of those who died last year, men. 40 pst. Of them, over 60 years old, and we also see that those who don't use life jackets are men. Then it is important to have a measure that takes exactly the group, and the device that Korsberg talked about, with regard to SV's proposal, which targets children, goes in a slightly different direction. I want the representative of the Progressive Party to be able to go up to the pulpit and explain what is incomplete and unclear in our proposal, and perhaps say what is so clear and complete in the proposal he supports today, so that we also see the technical reasons for and against these proposals. I think that's important. In addition, we have a slightly different opinion. The device we have in our proposal, which says that the directive will apply to a recreational boat up to 8 meters in length, that it is when the boat is on board, and that it is an open boat, is the same, on the advice of the Maritime Directorate, which was challenged by the expert committee to come up with a framework that would help to provide the most accurate law. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who has made recordings and contributed to the legal text that we have worked with. As it is now, if we had received a majority in favour of our proposal, we could have passed this law by 20 June at the latest. That is, this law could come into force this summer, while the proposal for SV goes back and says that the government will work on this, work on the child directive, and that it will come later. You don't know when it can be adopted, so there's quite a difference in the timeframe as well. Yesterday I was in debate with the Right-Rapporteur in Kragerø on the NRK, and he was very busy putting in place this Western mandate that we have proposed. He was against what the government says, not least because of the fatal accident that was in Kragerø last year, where there was a recreational boat, open boat under 8 meters, on the move, and they did not have a life jacket on. That's what goes on in the accidents we see. The same applies to the Arendal accident that occurred last weekend – exactly the same – 22 young people. Fortunately, that accident happened near land, so they piled up, but had it happened further out on the sea, it could have had a completely different exit. I believe that the proposal we have made is a good one. It's the right thing to do, and it's the people with it. MMI had a survey last year there 71 pst. by the people said they were for this. 94 pst. The ladies said the same thing. That means that it's a popular bill and not an unpopular one, which it might seem some fear. I hope that we get this adopted during the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e808	The representative Else-May Botten then addressed the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e811	The use of life jackets saves lives and too many surroundings as a result of drowning. Of course, anyone who engages in an activity where there is a risk of drowning should use a life jacket. Stifling work and competence prevent drowning accidents. Here, the Maritime Directorate, the Rescue Company and many different teams and organisations make a formidable effort. Available statistics show that we have almost a double number of recreational boats since 1980, while the number of persons killed in recreational boating accidents is more than halved, without a requirement for life jackets. Studies now show that 80 pst. Uses life jackets. There is evidence that knowledge and staggering work are working. We're on the right track. When it comes to the proposal from the Labour Party that we have discussed in the Committee – and about recreational boats over 8 metres, that it should not be a western port – ask Else-May Botten about what is unclear in that proposal. That's a bunch of things. One may wonder why a west must use a quiet summer day, with the sun and the white sea in a small yacht, while one in a boat of 8,5 metres in 40 knots at high seas should not have a life jacket. Furthermore, the law shall apply only when the boat is in service, and not when one is in the boat and fishing at high seas, nor when one moves between boats and enters a vessel or other anchored vessel. Nor should the law frame those who in a boat of more than 8 meters – who, after today’s per mille limit, may be allowed to run a boat – running at great speed in poor visibility at night. It is also very unclear who is responsible for meeting this western requirement. The law is directed at boat drivers and boat owners, but the proposal itself is directed at everyone on board. Who should be cured when a non-vessel is very unclear and did not make clear in the first proposal that the Labour Party took with it to the Committee. This question has been asked by the Department of the Law Department. Yesterday we could read in the VG that the Workers' Party criticized SV and said that it is completely crazy of SV to make suggestions so late. I mean this is unreasonable criticism from the Labour Party. Firstly, not all committees have an SV, and we are witnessing today that the Labour Party has submitted several proposals, even after today's meeting has been seen. So it's imperative to get involved in what comes from the opposition in this case. In any case, it is unusual that the employees' representatives try to write legal texts in a Document 8 proposal. Lawyers are already asking questions about this. I hope that today's debate can clarify a great deal in connection with the Else-May Botten proposals and the proposal of the Central Party, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox Is it really such that an order of the government to bring up a matter on the west front, or shall one again consider the need for the west front? I don't quite see what is actually in these proposals, and I hope that during the debate they will tell us. In addition, Else-May Botten felt that their proposal was very accurate. I have statistics from the Maritime Directorate that show something about the open motorboat proposal. If one had 100 pst. hits and mountains absolutely everyone, one would have mountains 14 out of 34. This means that there are 20 people who die at sea, who would not have been covered by the proposal as it stood. I think it's much better to see what's behind people drowning rather than making a bid that doesn't hit them that way. We know from statistics that there are 40-60-year-old men who often die in drowning accidents. These are the ones we have to try to help, so that you can get good grips and get better behavior when you're in a boat. I think you have to look at a whole different tool from the one in the Workers' Party proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e828	Thank you for this debate. There is an important debate – a debate on maritime safety. The Christian People's Party has long had an involvement in this, like everyone else, because it's about saving lives. Last year's statistics we've already heard of. It's a statistics we should take over when 27 of the 34 who died last year, don't use life jackets. We also know who this unfortunately is: there are men. That's what statistics tell us. The 2012 boat life survey tells us that nine out of ten have life jackets on board, but that there is only 50 pst. by us who use it every time we are in the boat. It also tells the polls when you answer honestly. It's good to have 50 pst. Always use it. It's a measure of increasing that percent. We know that many awareness campaigns have been carried out, but the question is whether we do not need a little other action. That is what we are discussing today. If we're going to be in line with the population, the people also want us to apply new measures, not just to have life jackets on board, but also to wear them when we're in the boat. Almost 100 pst. Of us women mean that, and over 70 pst. men want such a requirement. It is true, as the rapporteur said in his statement, that the Committee shares the intention of more use of lifejackets, but we disagree a little about how we should proceed. I think we should listen to our colleges and the largest organizations and associations within this: the rescue company, the Maritime Directorate, the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, the National Attorney, the Emergency Catastrophes, the Royal Norwegian Boat Federation. The clear advice from these is that they want such an order for lifejackets. We might also have to take that with us. So far in the debate, the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right have questioned the certainty of these proposals. If proposal No 3 I have to challenge them to look at proposal No. 4, requesting the submission of a case by this year to improve safety at sea, including mandatory use of flotation equipment. If we agree that we should improve safety at sea – if that is the intention of an overall committee – we will not have a discussion of 8 meters or discussion about joinery and silence, but we will have a discussion about better safety, one that the majority of the population today can ask the government to present during this year. After all, we should be able to put an end to all the arguments put forward by the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party in this debate, because then we will have one matter from the government, which is very complex. There should be other arguments against the proposal we have put on the table during the last week, a proposal that just takes up the Committee's intention to improve safety at sea, where a Western mandate should also be part of the overall review.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e841	Once we've discussed this in the Center Party, many, including myself, have a significant sense of the arguments about the individual's freedom – that there is also a freedom to do things that are not reasonable and rational. We also have a considerable sense of the arguments that we in the media have heard from the Greens that nature should be unregulated. There will be no suggestion on our part about fences along rivers and those kinds of things to make nature safe. In this case, we have chosen to listen to clear advice from expert groups. We believe that the number of drowning accidents is too high. At the same time, enough is what has made the greatest impression, the clear message from the Rescue Company and other parts of our rescue services about the formidable use of resources they put down, which is because many take selfish choices. There are proposals for a legal text, some of which have been circulated, which the Workers' Party has promoted. I think that if we take drowning accidents seriously and want to do something about it, there's no reason not to apply this year as well. It is such that being obliged to have a vest in the boat in a way is an intervention in the individual's freedom, so we have already crossed that threshold. I note that the representative Trellevik wanted to have fun with the way this has been done, that a legislative text has been proposed in the storeroom. But the rules for the wholesale processing say it's legal. It has been said that proposals have been put forward shortly before the debate. Yes, according to Storting's Rules of Procedure, that's the law. So I do not think that members of the committee should be met with criticism because they follow the rules of procedure in this Chamber. I would like to mention proposal No. 4, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The main point of view of the Centre Party is that we want to support proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox If so, we believe that proposal No. 4 is a much better proposal than the SV proposal. I don't understand that you can first have a hunch on the bill for the Workers' Party, and then come up with a proposal for a motion for a float vest in recreational boats if there are kids in the boat – and only then. Grown men don't float better even though there are kids in the boat. We can read that out of the statistics, and we should deal with that. Then one might say that proposal No. 2 from SV is sympathetic. I would rather recommend proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox It is a proposal that the government should go through this in full. It is not – when we write ‘including instructions for the use of floating equipment’ – an order for the government to change its mind. The government gets to have the meaning it has, but I'm adding that the government is going to make an assessment. It shall also provide an outline of how this should be done if a majority of the Storting wishes to impose a directive on the use of flotation equipment. We don't know what the summer of drowning 2014 is going to be like – it could be the debate. But proposal No. 4 will still depend on the majority when it comes back to Stortinget. If the bulk of the population is today, there will be no ban on the west. If some parties have changed their mind, there is another majority. Then we've had a real process, people can vote for what they want, and we can see the width – because I'm not able to say which of these SV proposals in paragraphs. 2 which is the right one to go in for. Then I think it's better that we have a wide entrance. But with regard to the use of flotation equipment, we have a clear recommendation, and that is why we have highlighted it in proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e860	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e863	The life jacket has saved many lives, but it should and could have saved even more, if more had used it. That is why I would like to pay tribute to the representatives from the Workers' Party who have raised the matter that we are dealing with today. It's about saving lives. Also in the Left we have had a discussion about the individual's freedom and responsibility for his own behavior, also on board the boat sizes that this applies to, but after a proper review of the matter, we have come to the conclusion that our primary point of view is that we have to do what can be done to save lives. Over the last ten years, 320 people have died in connection with the use of a recreational boat. In 2013, there were record deaths at sea when 34 people were killed in recreational boat accidents. 80 pst. of the deceased did not use a life jacket – 80 pst. This is serious, and it is alarming numbers that demand us politicians. In 1995, floating equipment was required for all on board a recreational boat. A study conducted by InFact on behalf of Norboat shows that a total of 86 pst. by us always or most often use lifejackets or other flotation when we are in a recreational boat. The study also shows that more than twice as many men as women report never using flotation. It has been mentioned earlier here as well. Statistically, men over 40 years of age are the worst at using life jackets, and this is reflected in accident statistics. I would therefore like to make a positive comment on what the representative Trellevik had to say instead: that it is where it is most critical – 40 plus. The challenge with the 1995 directive is that when the accident is first out, and the small boat is on edge, you can't put on the vest that might be at the bottom of a shot. It is also not enough to help young people or older people wear life jackets. Hitting a head in the ripa and becoming unconscious is a riskless one without a vest. Therefore, the requirement to have only a vest available in a recreational boat does not have sufficient desired effect. The vest must be on to ensure that there is at all a point in the concept of a life jacket. In addition to all statistics showing that the use of flotation equipment increases the likelihood of survival in the event of accidents in recreational craft, an order for the use of life jackets in small boats on board has been supported by the Maritime Directorate, the Rescue Company, the Red Cross, the National Attorney and the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. A working group, set up by former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Trond Giske, to investigate measures to reduce accidents in recreational craft, also concluded that mandatory use of floating equipment is the single measure which will immediately have the greatest impact on mortality rates for recreational boat accidents. The left wonders that the government parties and the SV, as it appears, do not support a requirement for a life jacket in a small boat in service, when the effect of the action is both well documented and not least recommended by all relevant associations and organisations. A directive that only targets children is not a targeted and accurate directive. Today, the children are using life jackets, while men over 40 years are unfortunately leaving it under the tweezers in the boat. I attach great importance to the Rescue Company's advice in this matter. The rescue company is the backbone in standby along the Norwegian coast. More people than ever use the sea and coastal areas as workplaces and recreational areas, and the fact that the rescue company is so clear in this matter weighs heavily on the left and on my part. So let's follow the advice of those who are working on preventive work at sea and who really know what this is all about. It involves following the majority of the Business Committee. Our primary position is proposal No. 3, but as we've also been referred to, we're on proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e883	Since 1980, the number of recreational boats has almost doubled, and at the same time, the number of persons killed in recreational boat accidents has halved. Very well has happened for safety at sea, but we still have a long way to go. According to Norwegian Public Aid drowning statistics, a total of 119 people drowned in 2013 – 41 after falling from land or berth, 31 were in a recreational boat. Foreigners are otherwise overrepresented in statistics, and something I'm going to come back to – nor are they mentioned in the Norwegian statistics. Total, of all those who drowned in 2013, was 70 pst. men aged 26 years and over. Here we don't have numbers for cause, but in the big picture, men are clearly the largest group, and the older, the greater the chance. It's been raised beyond doubt that life jackets save lives. The chance of death if a seaport is 12 times as great without floating equipment as with it. The rescue company has found that if all used life jackets, about 15 lives would be afraid in one year. Floating equipment saves lives when accidents are out. But a crucial question is therefore: What are the causes of the accidents? The statistics show that the main causes of accidents are falls overboard and captivating when one is alone in the boat, it's dark, one has a high prom, and it's high speed. Life jacket and float vest are the best rescue in such situations. But when we deal with safety at sea, we also have to look at the causes. The Maritime Directorate was asked in 2009 to make proposals for this. The Executive Board shall set up an expert group, a wide-ranging group. The report, conclusions and proposals show a broad approach to the issue, the context between control apparatus, security measures, cause prevention and detention. Among the most important proposals proposed by the working group were: ‘Standing-creating work — but it had to be seen in the context of several measures — strengthening the pro-mille limit for the driving of recreational boats, requiring the use of floating equipment and requirements for the competence of boat drivers, including: introduction of a specific high-speed requirement for the fastest recreational craft. In addition, a strengthening of the control apparatus was proposed to increase respect for existing laws and strengthen enforcement over time, measures to strengthen the investigation of accidents and measures aimed at fishing tourists – both certification systems and competence building. One also proposed national speed limits – they are now largely defined by the municipalities, but one would like to have a national framework for this. The expert group was – as mentioned – widely represented. SV has great sympathy for all the proposals that have been made. So to the proposals that are put forward during the debate. The proposal of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left addresses only partially one of the eight proposals. It's a reduction. Where the working group proposed a general directive on the use of lifejackets on recreational craft, it suggests that the majority limit it to recreational craft of up to 8 metres. We find it problematic, as mentioned earlier. Such a discrimination between those over 8 metres of recreational craft and those less than 8 metres of recreational craft will be very visible on the sea and have the potential to weaken the digestion and respect of the law. There is therefore a risk that such a law would become a rail law, which is not followed up by additional control measures. Furthermore, we see an increase in the number of fast-walking, large boats. In general, SV thinks we have to be careful when imposing a ban or a ban. First, new laws must be seen in conjunction with other laws, so that we do not develop a regulatory society as an unbalanced and illogical experience. As lawmakers, we need to be consistent when we adopt laws. We therefore believe that it is an important principle that we do not impose laws that restrict the freedom of people, unless they are acts that harm others. If the Storting had adopted all the things that can save lives, we would not only insist on life jackets, reflexes and bicycle helmets, but also ban sugar, tobacco and alcohol. Then we'd scare a lot of people. No law can take responsibility for its own security from the individual. SV will make two proposals in this matter. We think children cannot be held responsible for the foolish assessments of the adults. We therefore believe that the Storting should adopt a law that ensures that children – and everyone in a boat with children – should use lifesaving equipment. We mean children at sea in general need a stronger protection. In addition, children are often left unguided with life jackets, while parents and adults do not. This sends a very negative signal. Secondly, we don't think we can have a greater treatment of safety at sea by just looking at the requirement of life jackets. We have to dare to take in the whole discussion that the expert group is going to take, and see all the actions in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e902	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e905	Everyone who's been up here before me wants measures that save life at sea. From 2002 to 2011, 282 people died from a recreational boat. That's 282 people too much. During the last two days, we in the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens have experienced a race of enquiries from other parties that want us to support their proposals. We have also received many enquiries from organisations and individuals. This matter is important to many. There's another signal that you should think about before imposing a warrant. Our experience is that the process – at least as it has evolved – has become a little good way of designing policies. The two parties that ended up on the tip and were therefore to decide on the legislative proposal are not in the committee that has dealt with it. It is not right that we, as a party, should take a stand – entirely on the tamp – for an order that will affect many people's leisure time in Norwegian nature. I'm sure the hall agrees with just this. I'll still say a little bit more about the background of why we vote as we do today. The fact that we have been presented does not convince us that the general proposal of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left or SV's proposal of 'floating vest in recreational boats where there are children in the boat' will be correct. This has been mentioned by several before me. We are therefore going to vote against both of these proposals – we are asking for the possibility to do so in the set-up of the voting order. What we all want is for the group that has the greatest risk of perishing at sea to start using life jackets. A general order — which is in the setting — will from day one necessarily be practiced with great discretion. There will be many situations in which both boat users and the police will really consider it unnecessary to use a vest, even if the boat is on the move. We're afraid that this means that one introduces a rule of law that will actually be practiced in much the same way as what is today's practice, that is. that people use discretion and decide for themselves when they put on a vest. So are we equidistant? For us, there's reason enough to be skeptical about a general order. The second perspective that has been important to us — and which has also emerged through the media — is that it is not only at sea that Norwegian outdoor life presents risks. Nevertheless, it is rooted practice in Norway that we do not have State safety directives or bans in outdoors – not even in the most risky forms of outdoor life. Outdoor activities in Norwegian nature are carried out on their own responsibility. This also has a value that builds societies and responsible individuals, regardless of the laws of the state. It'll be important to us. We in the Green Party have therefore stated that we want the Stortinget to ask the government to come back with a matter that has been worked out and where all parties speak well during the process. We want this to happen as soon as possible and will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 4 – Promoted by Pollestad on behalf of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left – that the Stortinget asks the government by the end of 2014 to present a matter of ‘improved maritime safety’. We would therefore ask that we have the opportunity to vote separately for this proposal, because I understand that the voting order is not yet complete. We would like to say here in the Chamber that we do not interpret the wording of proposal No. 4 as we ask the government – or give the government a mission – to come back with a proposal for a general directive on lifejackets. We are voting in favour of this proposal because we interpret it – and we would like it to be confirmed once again – so that the government can assess how to improve safety at sea, including whether to consider the imposition of different forms of floating equipment on a recreational boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e926	Every life lost at sea is one too much. So let's not doubt that we're encouraging West usage. However, there are difficult balances that need to be made in the assessment of injunctions and prohibitions. I have a fundamental belief in freedom under responsibility. The sense of freedom is an important part of the experiences when we're looking for nature, whether it's walking in the mountains or in the fields, or it's being on the sea. We will not impose anything that makes sense, or prohibit anything that is unreasonable – or even dangerous. Since the late 1970s, the number of recreational boats in Norway has increased considerably, from 430,000 to 800,000 today. At the same time, the number of deaths per year is more than halved. The requirement to carry lifejackets, the requirement to carry out a boat driving test, safer boats and, in particular, to bet on attitude-building work are decisive factors for the reduction in the number of pleasure boat accidents. The figures also show that very many people take responsibility for their own safety. Over 80 pst. indicates that they always or almost always use float vests in a recreational boat. I recognise that the intentions are the best, but in this case I believe the right thing is not to impose another injunction. I also do not know that any other country has done so. In Sweden it is not even mandatory to carry floating equipment on board. In Finland and Denmark, the same rules apply to us. The previous government ordered the Safety Report on the use of a recreational boat. The report recommends taking ‘setting-up’ instructions for the use of flotation equipment. After the report was completed, the previous government had approx. one-and-a-half years to take a stand on Western directives. It is permissible to wonder a little about why the Workers' Party and the Centre did not promote this proposal when they themselves were in position. The Ministry has carried out a legislative review of the Committee's proposal for a directive. The proposal includes, inter alia: unclear who is to be responsible for complying with the directive and who, if any, is to be punished/punished in the event of an infringement. The proposal is considered to be inexpressible. I am, of course, committed to complying fully with the Storting decision. I have heard Mr Pollestad's explanation for proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox I then perceive it this way – and I ask to be corrected if it should not be the case – that what Stortinget is asking for is a matter of safety at sea and an assessment of vesting orders. I do not see it as the Stortinget today concludes that there is a Western order being imposed. This is important, so we deliver what Storting orders. I also want to say that attitude-creating work works. This year, the Maritime Directorate has earmarked 1 million. kr for sea-wet activities. There's a system that everyone can apply for. The Maritime Directorate also uses $3 million. for safety and awareness-raising work, e.g. They advertise on radio, and they use social media. The Directorate has also, together with other actors, produced information in six languages with fishing tourists as a special target group. I can assure the government that we are still going to pay attention to the important awareness-raising work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e943	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e946	I agree with the Council of State that there are some difficult balances here in terms of feeling of freedom and a decree. The statistics show that we have had a double in number of recreational boats and that the number of accidents has decreased. But if we just look at last year's statistics, it shows that 27 of the 34 drowning accidents were drowning accidents where the deceased did not have a vest on. There's also a statistic we need to bring with us, and we know, unfortunately, that this is more affecting older men. My question to the Council of State is why, in this assessment, it is not chosen to follow the professional advice given to you by both the Maritime Directorate, the DSB, the National Attorney and the Rescue Company, which have a slightly more freer role, but at the same time is an important company with a large and long tradition within it. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e953	I fully acknowledge the recommendations of the scientific institutes and the background for it, but completely 'in the end' it becomes so that we have to make an assessment of what we think is right. I can only repeat what I have said: I think mind-creating work is working. We've also seen that. I don't necessarily believe that a warrant works, because this is about preventing accidents from happening, and there won't be a warrant for any purpose whatsoever. When the accident happens, we're dependent on someone actually following that directive. I want to spend resources on mind-creating work. I think that's right. Unfortunately, we cannot ban everything that is dangerous or unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e960	I heard what the council said, and she was clear that she thought there was no need for a warrant. Today, however, the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour of introducing a directive on lifejackets, which will only apply to children. In any case, the Council of State must decide on how to deal with an order, because it will be – everyone in the main hall wants it – only that there is different arrangements on it. One more thing: How does the Council of State think that this directive on the west of children in a boat is better and more precise in terms of those who really need to get that directive, versus that proposal from the Workers' Party, which she says is unpresist in formula?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e967	My post was related to the general order. I'm recording that it can be a majority for a child order. I think it is well justified that children cannot be loaded for adult misunderstandings. Children become adults and grow up with healthy attitudes, such as: using a vest – which most children do, fortunately – can have a lasting effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e972	Let me begin by stressing that the understanding of proposal No. Four is right. We are past the stage that this could be a closed chapter, as the Council of State writes in a letter to the Committee. There have been two proposals on injunctions. My question is similar to the previous one: What proposal does the Council of State think is best, a general directive for everyone, or that adults should only be required to have Western children if they are in the boat? Is it possible to provide a technical justification that it will provide increased security versus a general order?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e977	The recordings we have received from the hearing bodies say that the West Command will work. That's not what we're discussing. Using more vests, it will work. What we are discussing is whether we want a situation where we regulate all traffic or movement within the given framework – as the proposer says – at sea. I think mind-provoking work is the right way to go, but if you're going to legislate, it's once again given a pretty good reason why this with children is in a different category than that with adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e983	I see the point with children in the boat, but the proposal actually goes on a requirement also for adults when there are children in the boat. Is this a proposal that the Council of State thinks is good or bad?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e988	At least I think it's better than the original proposal, in the sense that you actively work here with children. Kids will see that you use a vest, and that's good, just like it's good that when we ride our kids, we use a helmet. It is not mandatory, but it makes sense to use it. It's going to be a balance of what you have faith in, and I think this proposal is better than the original one.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e993	I wonder if the Council of State can say which other types of security measures are important. Now she's been very clear that attitude campaigns are important, but when we see that the number of fatal accidents is increasing, there may be some danger signals that suggest that we have to try to make other arrests. What, then, is the most important act, as the Council of State sees it? Then I wonder if the Council of State can provide an explanation and technical justification for 8 meters, which we have put into our proposal, whether it's OK, whether it hits the target audience based on accident statistics, or whether the Council of State thinks it should be for all pleasure boats, regardless of size.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1000	In terms of number of boat accidents and deaths, they are halved. They haven't increased, they're halved, and it just proves what we've said: attitude-creating work works. Last year there were several deaths, but the average is about. 33 every year, and it's halved in the last ten years, while the use of the boat and the number of boats has doubled. This is about several things. It's about speed, it's about prom, it's about boat driving tests, it's about knowledge, and – most importantly, I think – it's about mind-building work. There are many things that can be taken into account, and we will do so based on the report that the previous government ordered, and which they did not raise in a year and a half after the report was submitted. As for the length of the boat, I have to admit that I have no qualified opinion of it. In general, I suppose you should have a warrant, I guess... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1007	I want to focus on proposal No. 2 from SV, in view of the state council's change of line and its statement, the most important thing, is attitude-creating work. The proposal – which can be adopted – states that we want our own mandatory course for skippers of fast boats and the introduction of a per-mile limit. How do the Councils of State view these two proposals – which can have a majority here in the Chamber – in view of the line of argument that awareness-raising work is the most important thing? This is a proposal that the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right here in the House will vote for, as it looks now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1012	I now understand that the representatives themselves have to explain their assessments on that occasion. I have said that I believe this proposal is better than the original one, because it is directed directly at children, and then we are also asked to make a number of other assessments. Only to be clear about this: in the case of per mille limit at sea, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1019	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1022	First, I would like to thank one of the proposers, Else-May Botten, for putting this important matter on the agenda. About half of all the deaths at sea last year could have been avoided if everyone had used a life jacket, says the Rescue Company. Every year an average of 33 persons die in boat accidents. Based on the information contained in a new report from the Maritime Directorate, the Rescue Company estimates that about 15 people could have been rescued if everyone had used a life jacket. The Maritime Directorate supports this and says it is a realistic estimate. 61 pst. of those who have lost their lives at sea in the last ten years, missing a life jacket. These figures are likely to be higher, as in many cases it has not been possible to determine whether the vest was on or off. As we have heard from several people here today, last year there were 34 accidents involving a recreational boat – 27 of them had no life jackets on. This is a very high proportion and probably a reason why so many in the population are now supporting the imposition of a ban. In order to reduce mortality, it is proposed in the report to implement an obligation to wear a life jacket in recreational craft. Today, as is known, it is only mandatory to have the vest available on board. I note that the Council of State and the Government parties Right and the Advance Party believe that there is no need for an order, but that we should continue to bet on awareness campaigns. I also believe that awareness campaigns must continue, but after 20 years of intensive prevention work, we see that this is not enough. At least we believe that the key to bringing down the number of fatal accidents is to get people to use the vest. That's why it can help with a warrant. The representative of Trellevik, from the Right, said that not everyone can be reached with this proposal. That's probably true, but when you get 50 pst, as the Rescue Company says, it could be about 15 lives being saved. And if you save just one life now, I expect the Right Representative to agree that it's worth a warrant. One lost life we agree that is one too much. Hanging up to the 8-meter limit, I also believe that it is a substitute argument to vote against, for it can be adjusted. I also record that you are not fully consistent on the mandatory line, as you are partly for instructions when you are willing to submit to the SV's proposal. I am aware of the balance between personal responsibility and the responsibility of society, and that must be on these issues. But here we clearly have the opportunity to take into account saved life at sea, and I think that must weigh more heavily. That is why we should support this proposal, which is here today, so that we can put it into practice as early as next summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1045	Because of our geography, Norway is a boat nation. We've always been, and we'll always be. From north to south and from east to west, people enjoy boat life. It's not just at sea and on the sea, people enjoy boat life – even on small lakes and small ponds in the interior, for example. I want most people still to do that, without any new regulations, without any new restrictions, which could restrict the good natural experiences of boat and sea life. In Norway, there are a total of 752,000 recreational boats. Even at Mjösa, where I am happy to have a boat trip almost every two years, there are almost 12,000 boats. Nearly half of the Norwegian people actually have a direct or indirect relationship to the boat, either having a boat themselves, or having friends and family on a boat trip. Everyone is, of course, concerned about safety at sea. The vast majority of boaters behave nicely. But although there are always a few that stand out, both in terms of lack of boating skills, too high a prom or too high a speed, I am not subject to any further regulations or restrictions, which will hit most boaters. The problem is not that we have too few regulations, regulations and restrictions or a lack of legislation – the problem is that today’s legislation has not been properly enforced. Norway and the boat people do not need any more orders and regulations. We need today's laws and regulations to be enforced better. If we had had more visible police and more control of both too high prom and too high speed, many of today's accidents would have been avoided. Unfortunately, the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left's proposals seem a bit unsound, a little concrete and a little thoughtful, such as, among other things. My colleague, Korsberg, has been here. Unfortunately, this could lead to coincidences and injustices in the enforcement of the law, which in turn could lead to so-called "law food" and "justice". The bottom demanded examples to illustrate it. Trellevik had many good examples, but I can take another example. To the discussion of what's speed: now it's an attempt to define the speed at which an engine boat must have the engine on and be in motion. But what if you're out ruddy in a little rowboat? Last weekend I had the pleasure of being out in a ten-foot Pioneer jollyle. I had to take on the west to row a few meters out of the country to bathe from the little jolla, because there was no dock where I was. Then I had to take off my vest when I was going to jump in the sea – the vest is really going to protect me from drowning. When I finished bathing, I had to take the vest back on to calm down again to land. This is just getting funny -- it's just getting too stupid. So I am very pleased that the Green Party and the Left Party want the government to look into the matter more closely before we conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1058	I now sat and listened to that story of the representative Tor André Johnsen of the Progress Party. He thought that is so little concrete what we have come up with that is random. Then I would like to say that with regard to the proposal that came during the night that a directive should only apply to children, I would challenge him to say what is so much more accurate about it, and what is so right about it. He could then perhaps argue more for it. In terms of the 8-meter limit we've set, I thought I'd say a little bit about it. We believe it is the most accurate. I have not heard of any proposal from either SV, Right or Advance Party to extend that limit, and I do not think that would have been a problem for us in the Workers' Party to join. But this was a recommendation we received through the proposal of the Maritime Directorate. They say: We propose a vesting order for people outdoors in recreational boats up to 8 metres on board. There's nothing we've come up with or dreamed of a nice summer night. This is something the Maritime Directorate has been sitting and working on, and what they think is the most accurate. Ergo is a professional reason. Then we register that SV and the government parties have come with the wish that this should apply to children. So I looked at the news yesterday that the Rescue Company refers to it as a total bomb. They are really a professional body and have quite a lot of knowledge about this, and they have a good deal of experience in maritime accidents that at least I want to listen to. So that particular feedback might have made a certain impression on the proposers. So to the representative from the Right, Ove Bernt Trellevik, who talks down injunctions, but goes in for a warrant. He also said that our proposal met badly, but went in to ask for a life jacket for children when they were on board, and not least the others in the boat when they were on board. But why is this proposal better, I wonder. It might be good to know the reason for that, which means that it's going to give the result that fewer people die because of that very directive. Finally, I would like to say that we are, of course, in favour of our proposal, but we support subsidiary proposal No. 4, from the Central Party, which also supports the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1071	Then the representative Else-May Botten has prepared it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1075	I think that the debate to those degrees has shown that we should not be running and making domestic legislative proposals that we have not really thought through well enough. Especially the last article illustrates that. I don't think it's necessary to discuss who's prepared the worst. The SV and the Green Party have not been able to participate in committee proceedings. I'd like to commend them for having actually taken the challenge of creating a code that is perceived to be fairly fair, even out there. The bill that lies here is incredibly little accurate. It only hits a third of what we're talking about, all of which are concerned about, and it's drowning accidents. With this bill, therefore, a RIB that goes in 50-60 knots and that in ignorant hands is the pure weapon of killing, in my opinion, can drag past someone who sits in the kitchen and plasters the farm and has to have a life jacket. I think it illustrates that here the proposers could have been so open that they went back and listened to, among other things. Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Boat Federation. The boat crew sent out a press release, and it says: ‘The AP thus had a very good basis for proposing a user directive for suitable floating equipment.’ It was in the department for one and a half years. In addition, it says: «The text of the proposal was unfortunately poorly formulated and gave ground for discussions in all boat-related forums.» And that is before we have adopted it. It would have become a bit of a discussion afterwards. I would like to ask for the motion for a resolution to be put to the vote. 4 – because this is what this is all about – about an answer. Is there a proposal No. 4 an order to introduce a life jacket, as I read some representatives? I'm actually reading proposal maker Pollestad from the Center Party to consider introducing a life jacket. I have a proposal that I would like to raise here, so that the rapporteurs can take a decision on it. If you skip the last part of that proposal – that is, the part called ‘including mandatory use of floating equipment’ – you get full support in the Stortinget. That's what the Greens say. It is the interpretation of that part of the proposal that is difficult. Everyone is concerned about safety at sea, and then you could only say: The government is asked by the end of 2014 to file a case for the Stortinget for improved safety at sea – sentence. Here you have a lot of the basics in the department, because it has the red-greens on it for a year and a half without being able to conclude. It should not be too burdensome for the department either. I am quite sure that you would be in full agreement with such a proposal. In that case, you'll actually leave the department free. You go back to zero, and you might get a thoughtful proposal – with tools in a number of areas – that the Storting can then decide on. So I ask the proposer to be willing to delete the last part. Then I think we're also going to support it on the part of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1084	Taking care of life and health is one of the most important things we do here in the top organ of the country. We have holding campaigns, and we have orders. It's been a lot of an example over the years that you actually have to go to a place to change people's attitudes. A good example here is the safety belt in the car. There were a lot of countermeasures, but today we agree that it's natural to use seat belts, and it actually saves lives. Saviour saves lives. A ban will force many more people to use the west - not just to carry it on the boat. Therefore, I am for a prohibition. The life-jacket requirement is the single best-help decision, according to the expert group. Therefore, I am for a general requirement. We don't want a repeat of all the fatal accidents that were at sea in 2013. The life vest must be on, and it will save lives. Yes, therefore, I am for a prohibition. Also, SV's proposal shows that they are concerned about maritime safety and about saving lives. But in my view, a not quite right target group hits. Children and parents are the ones who are frail to use west. Grown-up men are the most vulnerable to accidents, and then there must be measures that include this group. It is trusted to have a life jacket on board the boat, if one does not have it on. The accidents happen so quickly, and end up in the sea and are bad in the faint, seek one as a stone. In Arendal last weekend, 22 people end up in the sea. Everyone was scared, but no one used a life jacket. There were also no children on board the boat. The headline could quickly have ours: More young people lost their lives by boating in Arendal. They didn't use a life jacket. I'm sure most people in this room share the intention to use a life jacket more closely and are concerned with maritime safety. I would also like to point out that, even if there is no imposition of a ban, and there are fatal accidents in summers, is and will be the responsibility of boat drivers and those who act irresponsiblely. The control problem has been raised as part of the problem of supply. I would like to say that it is easier to check whether the vests are on than if they are actually in the boat. And the chance to be stopped is small. I have had a certificate for more than 30 years and have been stopped for one seat belt check in these years, but I still use a seat belt. Proposal No. 4, from the representative Pollestad, I ask everyone to support it. I refer here to the argument that came from the representative Hemdal. There is no rematch about a general imposition on the use of lifejackets in a recreational boat. I'll make that clear. So it's an assessment of the supply in different forms – also the length of the boat. The proposer also said this very well. The proposal is to put maritime safety in a broad perspective on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1101	I have asked questions earlier today about one of the proposals here, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The Minister of Industry has also asked questions about this, and I have not yet got any clarity on this. The Christian People's Party believes that this proposal means that the government will come back with something to the Storting, where they include a westbound order. Senter Party Pollet says that they should only recommend coming back with something, if any. I want to be clear about this before we go to voting, because it is a very important matter. We have to get clarity on this very thing. Then I have to tell Pollestad that of course one should use the regulation of the Storting. That's exactly why I said that, and it was completely unnecessary for the Workers' Party to chat with SV in the media. They follow the rules and come to Stortinget with matters within the deadline. I would also like to say that I think it is a little strange that the Labour Party, which is busy with servitude, cannot support a proposal on the west front for children, which can actually be in the process of creating good postures, not only in children when they grow up, but also in the parents and adults who are in a boat with children. I think there is a real and good suggestion to create good grips, and I thought SV has done a very good job in this case here, even though they came too late into the loop. I would like them to be part of this debate a long time ago, because I think they have been very constructive and very good to be involved in the debate on this matter. I would like us to stress a little bit precisely this point with proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox What's really going on in this? Else-May Botten didn't come into this, nor did Ingrid Hegø bring it up, so I want the Labour Party and the proposal makers behind proposal No. 4 tells us what's actually going on in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1110	Now the representative Else-May Botten and several others have explained the background to the proposal and explained it well, so I'm not going to go into so much of it. But I would like to remind you that this is also something that ordinary people are concerned about, and it is supported by the investigation that Ipsos MMI conducted for the Rescue Company in 2013, where 94 pst. by Norwegian women and 71 pst. of the men answered yes to this. In addition, more organisations have supported it. We are concerned that this is already being introduced from this boat season and believe that it will help to reduce the number of deaths. And as the representative Pál Farstad clearly said, it's about saving lives. I come from South Africa where there is an extensive recreational boating environment in the summer. On 6 June, the fatherland friend had a larger look on the case, and everyone interviewed there supported that injunction unisonously. I want to refer Asbjørn Karlsen and his brother, who expresses the following to the newspaper: «You think we old sea gulls are against injunctions. But then you have to believe again." And on the other hand, ‘We were born at sea and have never had a life jacket on. Today's boaters are completely different from before. [[...]] People can sit in a little boat completely without experience. [[...]] [[...]] Western mandates are absolutely necessary", they conclude. A reasonable conclusion of some sea owls, in my view. Then I must also say that with regard to the criticism that Trellevik and, in part, Gundersen here comes with – and as Pollestad correctly said – we are dealing with a Rules of Procedure. When the government does not do this to produce a legal text, we need to use the opportunity we have in Stortinget to design the legal text, and then with lawyers here. Otherwise, I think both Trellevik and Gundersen are very much in favour of our proposal. The rescue company is clear that our proposal is good and captures what is the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1133	I want to say maybe we'll calm down a little bit here. The Socialist Left has not intervened with any proposal from the Workers' Party. I think, when I hear the debate, that everyone in this room will do the same. That's what's important. As a user of the sea, I have seen death in the white eye, and Neptune has dressed after me. I didn't get any marks. It has taught me that using life jackets saves lives. Everyone should have done that. Then I immediately think that there's another question: when, for whom and where? I guess that's what we're talking about. Is it true that when it's summer, as it's now on the outside down here, and the temperature may be 20 degrees in the sea and 24 degrees in the air, we're going to take off the life jacket before we jump into the sea, and when we get up, we're going to take it on. I read in the newspapers and the people say it: they're baffling over this – where's the boundary going? I guess we all agree that this is impractical. We need to find practical solutions to that – it's a challenge. What we have to look at are people who were born before 1982: Only they have a money book, they can buy a boat with no experience and go to sea. If you are born after 1982, you must have a course. It's also wrong. If you are going to carry boats that go in over 20 knots, you must have your own quick boat course with your own certificate, because there are extra challenges with forces and speed. When the boat comes up at such a high speed, it gets up in the plane, and it goes longer before you can swing, swallow up and turn the hill. That's also a difference. Here's some practical things that we have to look at, so I think it makes sense that we're talking about a little bit. The proposal put on the table here from the Labour Party is good in its origins, but we must look at the shades of this. Let's just think about it a little bit, and I think that here in the hall we can agree on what we really want to do, to bring down the fatal accidents on the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1148	It's been an interesting debate. There have been many good posts, and there will certainly be some good posts after my post now. I think the representative Johnny Ingebrichtsen really said it very well: we all want the same thing. What we want is to increase safety and respect for the sea – increase the safety of those at sea. As the situation is right now, it's probably not as much as it is majority for, but it's a proposal for which it can really become majority, and it's proposal No. 4, if an amendment is made to the proposal, on which the representative of Gundersen was involved – simply to put a point after the ‘sea’ and to delete ‘including a requirement to use flotation equipment’. Then the government gets the opportunity to come back to Stortinget with a comprehensive strategy and a comprehensive plan to increase safety at sea. In this way, all parties will also have the opportunity to make proposals in this way – a broad and comprehensive debate will be held. I think that will benefit the matter, and then the size of this case will also make a particularly wise and sensible decision. My appeal to the representative Pollestad, who comes after me on the list of speakers, is to clarify whether you can agree to such a change. Then it is referred to the Labour Party's proposal and some examples of how unclear it is. Here is an example: If you are in a small boat in the Salt Stream and drive through the Salt Stream without having any engine on or out of the year, you can get a speed of 20 knots. Then I would recommend using a life jacket, even if it is not in the law. This is an unclear proposal. If you have a boat of 7.99 meters, you should use a life jacket. If you have a boat of 8,01 meters, you don't have to use a life jacket. It's kind of strange to me, and you lose what, hopefully, is really the intention of the Workers' Party proposal, that you encourage people to use life jackets. That is what we all agree on. If you look at the statistics, you should really just introduce a law that men of their best age, i.e. over 40 years, using life jackets, and everyone else doesn't have to do it – based on the statistics. But that's the statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1163	To follow up where the representative of Korsberg ended: Of course you should use a life jacket. The use of a life jacket is a matter of common sense, and you do the right thing to react if people go out, and like to get out too, in small boats with very large engines, without a vest and with a bottle of wine. So why not put on a life jacket? There's a lot of reasons for that. I might wish that we spent a little more time on the principles of this debate. First, it's not possible to regulate everything we think is ignorant. Even I wrinkle my nose over base hoppers, but I don't intend to go in for a ban. It's because I accept that people have a different view of risk and what makes life worth living. Many people have family members who drink, who expose other people to suffering and even danger with their drinking, and many take their own lives by drinking. But I'm not going to ban alcohol either, and I don't think anyone else in this room has spoken about it. Many look at me with wonder. I'm a young and presumptuously healthy man who smokes. It's a deadly activity, and I know it. To a far greater extent, smoking is a deadly activity than recreational boats. People walk on the mountain without adequate maps and equipment, especially every Easter. Some accidents every year, but no one here in the Chamber has proposed to ban it, and no one here in the Chamber would suggest that not going in to prohibit it is to bear a personal responsibility for these people's accidents. In short, everything that is dangerous and everything that is harmful, not everything that is stupid, is not prohibited. If someone sits in a rowboat and wants to sunbathe all over the body, I actually think they'll be allowed to. I think it is particularly funny if those sitting in that rowboat should be required by law to wear a life jacket, while a pier of more than 8 meters less than at high speed and with an intoxicated driver – a man over 40 – without the law saying anything about it, as the practical consequences of the proposal from the Workers' Party would have been. As an SV, I'm for a strong public sector, I'm for an efficient and strong state, I'm for laws that are often strict, that protect everyone, regardless of background, regardless of class and gender. But not at any point in my ideological belief that sharing, sharing, balancing differences is the best thing, is that people shouldn't be responsible for themselves. On the contrary, I believe that communion, regulation and sharing are clever, precisely because it gives people a greater freedom to live their own lives, a greater opportunity to take care of themselves. The power we have at Stortinget shall not be used to regulate away folly or any personal responsibility. It's not going to be used to impose everything we're for, or prohibit everything we're against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1176	I record that someone is still discussing the principal aspects of or against a warrant. With the exception of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European That is the scope of the directive that is now being discussed, as I understand it. So it's talking about that when there's kids in the boat, it's about attitudes. I am strongly opposed to SV's proposal, because I think the attitudes it gives are wrong. We're going to have a life jacket when there's a kid in the boat, because a life jacket is something for kids. In the same way, you could say that we have to have a bike helmet when we ride with the kids, because helmet is something kids use. Similarly, it is important to be visible that young people use reflexes, but it is not so important for adults because adults light up in the dark. That is not the way it is, and that is why I think the attitude and attitude that are contained in the SV's proposal is wrong. Life jacket is not just for children. Print statistics are clear on that. So one also makes fools of the bounds of this. I think you can take any ban or ban and find borderline cases. We heard a shocking bathing story here earlier. In view of the safety belt: if you have the car in the garage, does it drive out of the garage and close the garage door, do you have to wear a harness when you drive out of the garage and into the yard room? Here we know that it's going to be used discretion. It will also be done in this case. So to proposal No. 4, and what that means. No, we don't want to change that. What we're going to do is we're going to ask you a broad case. One of the things you should be looking at is a requirement for the use of flotation equipment — open to the extent of the area. On behalf of the parties that have submitted the proposal, I would say that I believe that the main point is that if there is no majority for that today, we want to have a new round and put this into a larger context, so that we can make a decision, if there is a majority in the Biggest. This means that today's majority needs to be changed, but if it becomes a majority, one should not then have to start legal work, but then one should have a basis that allows one to introduce it with effect from the next summer. That's the idea behind the way it's written here. So there's no rematch. Should this get a majority when this matter comes from the government, it assumes that it is a majority, but we want more an ideological pro/contra discussion from the government on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1189	The representative Pollestad's position is very unclear to me. Does he mean that someone should put on a bicycle helmet for everyone, all the time? That's the consequence of his reasoning. It has been a mixed debate, a lot of good speeches, and it has also been a vigorous debate. I assume that everyone here wants to strengthen safety at sea. I don't have any posts to refer to where it hasn't been intentional. Saga is that we have to land something. As it looks now, there are two suggestions that are very similar to each other. One is the SV proposal, and the other is the Pollestad proposal on behalf of several. Pollestad's suggestion is general, but then with the sentence of imposition of life jackets, as highlighted. SV's proposal has an emphasis on prom and speed. What I think is a little bit strange about the discussion, when everyone here has read the suggestions of the expert group, which takes the full range of proposals that will strengthen the safety at sea, where the bulk and speed are the most central things, is that this is just a discussion about life jackets. The reduction that I think is not good. I know it's not the intention of the big organizations, nor is it the intention of the expert group that the Directorate for Maritime Affairs put down – they want to see this collected. That's why it's worth sending this back to the government, and asking them to come back with a bigger case, which includes all the things that the expert group came up with, so that we get a wide discussion about it, and so that we don't take one suggestion from the expert group, and lower it down to eight meters, with the principal problems it has -- the expert group didn't suggest a limit of eight meters -- and then we don't take the rest of the width into it. When it comes to consistency, the expert group was confident about all of these actions – it was not just the one proposal that would ensure consistency. If one removes the causes of accidents at sea and only looks at the type of safety equipment to be used, it is not accurate. The proposal from SV, as Stortinget also perceives, is a desire to speed up this work, that this happens during the coming year. In the proposal, there's a whole line of security, and then it's this one with prom and velocity. The question is, how often does a right-hand side fit into the per mille limit discussion... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1204	At the bottom of a long debate, which has sometimes also been good, I want to make a few comments. It has shown that everyone in the hall is concerned with enhancing safety at sea, with slightly different approaches. However, the debate and procedure have also shown how unfortunate it can be that legal work is being carried out in the handling of a Document 8 proposal. I'll try to show you a couple of examples of that. There are several others who have also pointed it out. I'm a little uncertain about what we have in our legislation on this, maybe not fully thought out, when we see what can happen in this case. Let me give you a very specific example. In the first paragraph of the proposal of, inter alia, The working party says that this prohibition will only apply when the boat makes its way through the water. Yes well – I have been at sea for at least 50 years, and I have up to several boats. I started my career taking a maritime safety course when I was a very young boy. One of the things we learned there was that never should more than one time rise up in a boat. The maritime safety rules are too important to many, but we see that many accidents happen because people get up in small boats. Foreigners have been mentioned here in the past. As this bill is now designed, eight Germans on board a 15-foot, little Ashkeladden can travel out, take their fishing rods and begin to own when the boat has settled west on a fly out on the sea. They can sit there and take off the life jackets, which are uncomfortable to wear, get up, and the boat is rolling, and many of them perish. That's what we see examples of every year. But you have this in this section of the law that you put up here, no regulation of. It's just an example of the fact that it's just a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit I want to say that the only thing right now is that you go for what others have asked for, the proposal from Geir Pollestad, without the last part of the sentence. A thorough assessment will then be given by the department, and the Stortinget will have a new opportunity to deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1217	The representative, Else-May Botten, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1221	I thought I'd say a little bit about the story of why we've come up with this Document 8 proposal – I thought it was important to say something about it after SV had their posts in place. The government went out in January and said it would not issue an order for a life jacket. We thought it was wrong, because we saw that the death tolls increased last summer. We thought that awareness campaigns were not enough; we had to do something more. The single measure that the expert committee then said was the right one, and that met best, was a requirement for a life jacket. That's why we brought it. But we're not against other security measures, that's why we also support what comes from the Central Party. We're very concerned with security. But I just have to say that in terms of prom and speed, there are things that are already regulated. Then it's about making changes to what's regulated. What we're concerned about now is getting a warrant for a life jacket. This was the starting point — which was an important step to take. I am very pleased with this broad debate, and I hope we find a solution together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1232	The representative, Ove Bernt Trellevik, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1235	Thank you – and thank you to the Stortinget for a good debate. It has been interesting to hear and participate in this debate. I thought I'd brief you a little bit about how Right has intended to voice. We intend to vote for proposal No. 1, from SV. By doing so, we understand that the government is going to settle this with a life jacket for children – nothing has been said about the age of children, nothing has been said about the size of a boat, etc. – so that the government has some good frameworks to come up with a good proposal, so we can have the opportunity to discuss it on a broad basis here in Stortinget as well. We will also vote for proposal No. 2 from SV. We also think this is a good proposal, in which the government gets a little free and good framework to come up with good measures to improve maritime safety. We're going to vote against proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, and we're going to vote against proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1244	I would like to make some comments to the representative Knag Fylkesnes, who is concerned with a comprehensive and broad review. Yes, proposal No. 4 just mentions the fact that the Stortinget wishes to be presented with a wide range of safety issues, including instructions for the use of floating equipment. What is also included in the SV's proposal on promille and, if necessary, a compulsory course for skippers on fast boats, will be a quite natural part, because that is the width we are asking for. In any case, the undersigned expects these two points that we have now discussed to enter into such an overall review. To the representative Øyvind Halleraker and the story of the 15 foreign fishermen who can sit on the sea and choose to take off the vest and not be covered by Section 23(a) as it is designed today: it is stated in the next section that «The King may make supplementary provisions in the regulation». If this is so important to the representative Halleraker, I am absolutely sure he has contacts with the system that can just create a regulation that includes the 15 foreign fishermen, so that they do not take off the life jacket, so that they may not drown. There should be no problem with that. Here we should try to see what it takes to be with and save lives – which we all agree on is important. That's exactly what this matter is about. And as I manage to sum up this debate, there is a majority in this Chamber for proposal No. 4, to have a broad review by the government on maritime safety, including mandatory use of flotation equipment. It looks provisionally like there's a majority in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1258	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1261	I thought it was very good that the government party wanted to vote for the proposal on children in the boat, and I must honestly admit that I cannot see what is so wrong with that proposal. It has been a campaign from the Rescue Company for a long, long time on how to make sure that the adults who are in a boat with children will also use a life jacket. It's an important staggering work in itself. I think children in general should have a stronger protection at sea. Then I've got an insurance from the minister that it's so to understand that when it comes to proposal no. 2, from SV, to come back to Stortinget with a general measure and also look at promille running and speed and general security issues, it will happen before the end of the year. That makes this proposal broader. It also includes more elements than proposal No. 4 in this case. In fact, I thought that this could be solved easily by all of us voting in favour of proposal No. 2 from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1270	My post was not primarily made to tell you about a situation that can easily arise at sea, and that happens daily. It was just meant to be an example of how this legal text does not cover what you might want. To the representative, Mr. Hemdal, I have to say that it is a bit pathetic, perhaps, that one finds reason to go up to the pulpit of the Stortinge and tell me as a representative about and ask questions about procedures, first of all, in a case of law – that then, you can make a regulation that neutralizes the text of the legal paragraph itself. This kind of legal treatment really underlines the lack of seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1277	Just a short time at the end of the debate: I think it was sad that the Central Party would not change the wording of proposal No. 4, because then it had become the majority of the proposal, and you had a total increase. Then you had achieved what Else-May Botten had as his intention: to find a solution together. That is what this whole debate has been about, and then one cannot find it with a few simple changes in the wording of the proposal. With regard to the Progress Party – just to take the opportunity to say so – we will vote in favour of the proposals No. 1 and 2, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1284	I have a little wonder about Knag Fylkesnes’ proposal. He specifically mentions promille and the speed at sea, but I record that he does not want to mention the life jacket.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1289	Everyone jumps up here and says they're so concerned with safety at sea, and that's enough, because we're all concerned about getting a holistic review when it comes to both the per thousand limit and possibly the certificate – and boat length and speed, for that matter. All this is, in fact, contained in proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The Minister has received a confirmation of how to interpret the proposal on the basis of the question he had. So it should be possible to say that everyone can vote in favour of that proposal. I would also like to mention that we take note of what the representative Mr. Bastholm said about both the process and the inclusion of the parties that are not in the committee, so that we can take it with us in the handling of new issues that come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1297	I'm myself in the age group that should feel taken by the statistics: between 40 and 60 years old, not good at using float vests. I'm actually by those who are the best at using the float vest when I have the kids with me in the boat. That means we don't get to the point that I have to take my float vest when I have the kids with me – there won't be any improvement. The problem is actually us 40-60-year-olds when we go on a boat without our kids – that's when the accidents happen. I have to say that here we spend a lot of time discussing something that we at least have a secondary agreement on. What's regrettable is that it doesn't seem to be a majority in this room, so we can get a warrant already from this summer. That means that life that could have been saved won't be because we don't get that command as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, we have to take that over. Because we know that injunctions work. We see that when it comes to the use of safety belts, it has had a preventative effect that it is a requirement. It is believed that the same thing will happen with regard to the use of float vests, although I hear today that many doubt it. I'll happily admit that I'm a good example here – I think I'll be even more careful to wear the float vest if it's a warrant than if it's not. Some of us are now just like that, and I don't think it's just me. Secondaryly, there is a large majority in this room for some form of ban on the use of vests, whether this applies only when young people are on board or also when there are no young people on board. We find it strange that, in the alternative, we cannot get together on proposal No. 4, for proposal No. 4 would mean that we get a case to the Grand Duchy about what to decide about injunctions or not injunctions, and there are also other good measures that can be taken, as far as the proposal from the Swedish authorities is concerned. The scope of what is contained in proposal No. In fact, 4, everyone in this room will be taken care of, and there will be a case in which action is finally taken. What is a pity about that proposal is that it will work from the next boat season at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1306	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President proposed that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1333	Norway is already participating in the European standardisation system. The European Commission reviewed this system between 2008 and 2010. The review then ends with a proposal for a regulation on European standardisation. On 14 February this year the EEA Committee decided to incorporate this Council Regulation into the EEA Agreement. A slight amendment to the law of the EEA may be necessary to allow the Ministry to adopt a regulation which may implement this Regulation. It is important that the development and use of standards promote the interests of Norwegian industry and that the European standardisation system is adapted to technological developments. The purpose of the Regulation is to ensure the same standards for a number of services and goods. Both businesses and trade are expanding to a greater extent across borders, and similar standards will simplify, also for Norwegian business and Norwegian operators. It is a joint committee that believes that access to the market on equal terms will contribute to simplification and reduce costs for business, and we note that the regulations should contribute to this precisely. There is thus a joint committee which is behind the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1344	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1350	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1360	There have been some suggestions in the air throughout the day, so here you get to keep up with the hour. Perhaps we need to take an explanation of vote along the way – we'll see. Maybe it's going to be all right. It's nice to have some tension in the air. In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, by Else-May Botten on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left Proposal No. 4, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Law amending the Law on Small Boating
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1411	I voted, but it says here that I didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1416	Then we'll take a new vote for safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1429	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By the end of 2014, the Government requests the Storting to file a case for improved safety at sea, including mandatory use of flotation equipment.’ The vote boards showed that 52 votes were cast in favour and 52 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.30.23]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1441	No one thinks they voted wrong? In that case, the proposal has been rejected with the President's double vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1446	It's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1451	Yes, but the President voted against – so it has been rejected with the President's double voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1454	President, can I ask for a new vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1459	Yes, we can take a new vote. That is why we are voting on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1473	Then it helped. Of course, it was a little annoying that the president didn't need his double voice. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a proposal that requires the use of float vests in recreational craft where there are children in the boat.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1481	Maybe a explanation of vote would have been okay here?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1486	A explanations of vote shall be requested. Then it's Gunnar Gundersen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1489	The right and the right have made it clear that we are voting in favour of the proposals. 1 and 2, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1494	Line Henriette Hemdal – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1497	On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I declare that we are voting in favour of proposal No. 1, from SV, since proposal No. Four times. It wasn't supposed to happen, but it happened, and we have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1502	There is then a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1516	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is calling for action to be taken by the Government to strengthen safety at sea/river/water, including stronger measures to combat per million journeys and sea speed. The size asks the government to consider the introduction of 0,2 as the per mille limit for recreational boats below 15 metres and its own mandatory course for skippers of fast boats.» The Right and the Progressive Party have announced that they will support the proposal. The Christian People's Party has announced that they do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1573	The President noted that proposal No. 3 has been replaced for the vote on the A. The proposal for Decision B is now being debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1673	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1683	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-13.ana.ud1310e1705	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
