ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e98	Representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Tor André Johnsen, Jenny Klinge, Kenneth Svendsen, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Bjørn Lødemel, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e128	The representative Iselin Nybø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e131	On behalf of Sveinung Rotevatn, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on the general armament of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e136	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e142	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose, on the basis of the third paragraph of Section 35 of the Rules of Procedure, that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended to end the scheduled wholesale meeting on Thursday 27 November. – No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal, and it is then deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e160	As everyone knows, the Finance Committee issued the Innst. 2 S Thursday 20 November, without a majority vote in favour of the 2015 budget. The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left continued the negotiations overtime and arrived at a settlement night by Friday. It is therefore necessary to refer the matter back to the Financial Committee in order to provide for an additional position allowing the necessary incorporation of the budgetary and political implications of the conciliation. On this basis, the President will propose that Innst. 2 S for 2014-2015 shall be returned to the Financial Committee so that the Committee may issue an additional opinion which, together with the suspension, may form the basis for the further examination of the budget. At the same time, the President will propose that the additional voting time be set at 28 November. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal, which is deemed unanimously adopted. The financial debate will then be held on Monday 1 December. The Committees' budgetary debates will be held in accordance with the initial plan set out in the agenda, with the exception of the positions 3 S and 4 L of the Financial Committee, which will be moved from 4 to 15 December. There will also be a change in the timing of voting for some of the committees, since they cannot be issued until after the Grand Duchy has adopted the framework for the next year's budget, i.e. 1 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e182	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e191	I would like to thank the Council of State for a broad review, which also highlighted more security policy, foreign policy and broader trade policy issues. The Council of State took as its starting point the wave of liberation initiated by the fall of the Berlin Wall 25 years ago, and the alarm that the ghosts of the past are about to return through Russia’s annexation of Crimea and games in the crisis in Ukraine. This is worrying. Therefore, Norway has also supported the adoption of sanctions by EU countries. At the same time, however, we must take care of Norwegian interests, as other countries do. Nor does it serve the potential for a policy solution on cooperation channels now built in the northern regions – people-to-people cooperation, cooperation on joint management of natural resources and environmental work – stop. On the contrary. It may be more important than ever to keep these. Ukraine shall have the right to choose its path, but we cannot close our eyes because there is deep division in the country about what is the best way, and there is a strong need to fight against the culture of corruption and find a way that can unite. We can and should contribute, along with our European neighbours, but we must seek a form that can help to bridge internal contradictions, not strengthen them. Russia’s willingness to use military resources in the conflict has heightened awareness of the defence budgets of NATO countries. I believe it is important now that we do not ignore the economic challenges our European neighbours continue to face. When we debated Europe in ours, there was a lot of evidence that most EU countries were in the process of gaining a firmer foundation for the economy so that it could grow again. Today, this picture is more uncertain, the economic weather forecast is worse. This means that the social problems in the wake of the financial and debt crisis will also persist. There are 24–25 million unemployed and very high youth unemployment in many countries. It creates social problems, weakened belief in the future and a flourishing of nationalism and calls for protectionism. We see political forces in Hungary, in the United Kingdom, in France and in the elections to the European Parliament that will turn their backs on the community. We need Community solutions in Europe, not nationalism. We see protectionist forces in several countries. In the United Kingdom, the country’s Prime Minister himself is leading towards the principle of free movement of labour. At our EFTA partner Switzerland, a referendum has called for restrictions on labour immigration which would violate the EFTA Convention and its agreements with the EU. On Sunday there is a new referendum where the proposal is to limit the number of immigrants to 16 000 per year. Even emigrated Swiss nationals shall be denied access if the quota has been filled. These perspectives are as great a threat to the future as the security policy link with Ukraine and Russia – a threat to the social stability of countries that have been hit hardest, a threat to the faith in the future, a threat to the faith in politics and democracy. The free movement is a fundamental right in European cooperation, as it has been in the Nordic region since the mid 1950s. I guess that's what we've done. Who else would fill the 350 000 new jobs created in this country for the last 10-12 years? For this reason, the main challenge facing our European neighbours is to maintain a solid economic base under its feet, create economic growth and create new jobs. These are also security policies, security policies against forward-looking spessimism and vaccination against light solutions. The challenge that free movement of labour in an internal market with major differences can create with social dumping, unhealthy competition and criminal work needs to be addressed through cooperation on rules and measures, not by closing borders. Therefore, Norway’s voice must be clear on what has been the cornerstones of our work model: strong labour-environment legislation, well-organised working life, tripartite cooperation – also against social dumping and labour-life crime. The change in the course government adds up to here at home, is not a model for those out there. The European Court of Justice has now also established that the right to free movement is not a right to what has been called welfare tourism. The so-called Dano case from Germany, to which the Council of State referred, should reassure even the most alarming FrPs. There are many programmes and plans in the EU system that will provide new growth and more jobs – Horizon 2020, Erasmus+, on which we are still involved. Fortunately, the Stortinget will now see to it that we also join the Copernicus programme. A government that says they want to strengthen European policy and invest more in research and development, but did not find the money to participate in it, when they found funds of between 8 and 9 billion in tax cuts, can at least not claim that they allow action to follow words. It is important that a solution has now been found to our involvement in financial supervision. It's important. Our financial industry cannot be outside the EEA Agreement, and no one can deny that the European financial industry is subject to more control and stricter rules, as we have been through. This is what this is all about – better regulation of an industry that can bring land to its knees and the world economy beyond the dead end. We learned it through our banking crisis in the 1990s. Europe has learned it now. But there are still several challenges to other agencies, Acer and BEREC must also find their solution. These are important areas where Norwegian business is of great interest. The challenge for the EEA Agreement that the EU is increasingly empowering agencies should be sought for a structural solution. Now we learn that things take time, even though the obvious solution is today, as with financial supervision. It is also gratifying that due to the inclusion of the Plant Protection Directive, the queue of legal acts waiting to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement has been reduced. Once financial supervision is in place, there will be a further reduction. New practices, including between the three EFTA countries, will hopefully lead to a more flexible and faster integration of new legislation. It is important to ensure an internal market with common rules. From the parliamentary committee, we are seeking to contribute to having it on the agenda of our meetings in the future and also to inspire colleagues in other countries who have a more curtailed reading in Parliament than we have put forward here. However, there remains to be more speed in the implementations in our own country, once new legislation has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. And here it's also slower lately, and here it's just up to ourselves. Climate and energy are a key area of cooperation in the EU, in which we have strong interests – an important area, both in combating climate challenges and for energy security in Europe. The EU has set its targets and ambitions for renewable energy and energy efficiency improvements. Gradually, the measures to achieve the objectives could lead to changes in legislation that will also include us through the EEA Agreement. However, I would like to stress that with regard to the policy objectives set by the EU, these cannot be covered by the EEA Agreement. We have to set our own targets. The Council of State presented the demanding negotiations we have with the EU: our contribution to combating inequalities in Europe through the funding mechanisms, the Article 19 negotiations on agricultural products and the negotiations on market access for fish. When the Council of State says that ‘we have emphasised to the EU that the continuation of EEA contributions requires satisfactory solutions for fish’, it has put the ambitions high. It's just to wish happiness and wait for a good result. Also, a government with high ambitions should not have problems defending important Norwegian agricultural interests in the cheese customs case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e231	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough EEA statement last week. The Council of State opened up to bring forward the security situation in Europe and describes the security situation as the determining factor for all positive developments in our part of the world. I would also like to refer to what Secretary-General Stoltenberg said at the NATO meeting that was just finished in The Hague yesterday: ‘And without certainty there will be little else. No security: no prosperity, no freedom." I would therefore like to focus on security policy in my contribution. Other themes from the Right will capture others. We see a situation of profound changes and increased instability and unforeseeability in the security policy landscape. The illegal and international annexation of Crimea by Russia challenges the Euro-Atlantic security structures and their consequences become long-term. Regardless of whether the conflict is resolved, it does not change the fact that one European country has used military power against a neighbouring country to assert its interests. Europe and the United States are more united than they are for a long time. A comprehensive NATO has taken action both to show solidarity with allies and to give a clear message to Russia that this is not the way to go. The EU is now proving to be an important player in foreign and security policy. In addition to its political weighty economic instruments, the EU has imposed sanctions on Russia. Norway has joined these measures and is following up its decisions in NATO. We are in a crisis situation where it is essential that we show solidarity with our allies and coordinate with our partners in the European Union. However, Norway will continue to maintain effective bilateral cooperation with Russia to ensure relaxation and positive development in the north. Both countries serve to continue pragmatic cooperation on common challenges, in particular on resource management, emergency preparedness and border control in the Arctic. It is not just the security situation in the east that makes Norway’s interaction with the EU important. We see a growing number of weak countries south of Europe – from West Africa via the Middle East to Central Asia – that bring instability and armed conflicts across national borders. Close to the southern border of Europe, we see a particularly dramatic development. The brutal expansion of ISIL in Iraq and Syria is causing great suffering, and they have taken territorial control of large parts of the countries. The humanitarian needs are enormous. It is absolutely necessary to put in place a political solution both in Iraq and Syria. The extreme terrorist organisation ISIL must be combated. Norway and several EU countries are participating in the ISIL coalition, and I am pleased with the broad support the government has received for this in the Stortinget, at the latest in today's newspapers. Norway will cooperate with the EU and EU countries on actions that naturally belong there. But NATO is and will continue to be the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy. The Ukraine crisis has shown how the EU and NATO use the instruments available to them in their respective areas. We now see that Germany is increasingly taking responsibility in NATO and has taken a clear lead in the EU. The United Kingdom and France take the lead in the international coalition of states in the fight against ISIL in Iraq, and France has a strong presence in Africa. Such European contributions contribute to the so important transatlantic burden-sharing. In the new security policy landscape, it is important that we strengthen and further develop our European and transatlantic ties. The EU’s role in European security and stability has hardly been more significant than it is now. Both NATO and the EU play a central role in ensuring peace, stability and development in Europe. These organisations shall and should complement each other. Norway should contribute to the effective and effective functioning of cooperation. That is why I am pleased that the government is pursuing an active European policy, contributing to the effective functioning of multilateral organisations, thus promoting conflict resolution, political stability and economic development in our neighbourhoods and neighbouring regions both in the East and the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e253	Let me start by thanking the State Council Helgesen for the presentation of important EU and EEA issues in the United Kingdom last week. It was an informative, thorough and interesting presentation, which also clearly shows that the government is taking the active European policy seriously. I will, as the Council of State Helgesen did in his presentation, begin with a little reflection. The fall of the Berlin Wall is the most important event in Europe in recent times, and this year we both mark and celebrate that it is 25 years since ordinary people, with great dreams and freedom in view, went loose on this grotesque wall with hacks and spades to crush it. Many have changed in these 25 years, and much will change in the years to come. Many of us had extremely high expectations and hopes when the wall fell and communism collapsed in Eastern Europe with the collapse of the Soviet Union. Much has been achieved, but much remains to be done. Not least, the terrible wars in the Balkans were a reminder that things could turn out quickly, and that there are always those who will blow life into it like wolves. Recently, we have also seen that the EU is finding its role in the field of foreign and security policy. We did not see that very clearly during the wars in the Balkans. This year we have received another reminder that things are not always the way we hope. Fortunately, the Soviet Union is history, but developments in Russia since Soviet collapse are alarming. Historically, Norway has had very good relations and good cooperation with our large neighbour in the east. It's my hope that this will continue in the future as well. We have many important cooperation points, especially up north, which it is important that we strengthen further in the years to come. But we have a duty to say from now on, not least to good neighbours, when we think it's going in the wrong direction, when international driving rules are broken, and when stability threatens a continent. Russia’s aggressive behaviour towards Ukraine – an independent country that must decide its own way for the future – is both disappointing and critical. In addition, the new situation has again led to the return of safety policy and, in particular, energy policy to a high level on the agenda. I am pleased that Norway is so clearly part of the international pressure against Russia in this critical situation. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of continuing to work along the line where a political solution will eventually win. It is quite right, as the Council of State Helgesen points out: European policy is probably as much domestic policy as foreign policy. In almost all the political areas in which we are working on solutions at home, part of the premises will be in Europe. Although we in Norway have opted not to participate fully in the EU through full membership, we have chosen to make a strong commitment to the EU through both the EEA Agreement and other agreements with the EU. This makes it even more important, in my view, to be in front of the Brussels political decisions and to have an active commitment to European policy. People did not stand in front of European polls as a herring in the last elections to the European Parliament. Hardly 43.1 pst. by those who are entitled to vote in EU countries chose to avail themselves of the opportunity to vote in favour of their representatives as the only elected body in the EU. It was in Slovakia, which has barely ten years behind it as a member, that people were the least interested in voting. Only 13 pst. cast a vote. It is also sad and disappointing that extreme forces are once again gaining ground on the European continent. We find the most extreme example in Germany, where so many German voters thought that a Nazi could have anything to do with European policy, that they simply voted in favour of the Hitler admirer Udo Voigt in the European Parliament. In France, every fourth election went and voted for the xenophobic National Frontist Party. Former party leader, the father of the current party leader, recently believed that he had the solution to stop the influx of asylum into Europe. The dreaded Ebola virus was his solution. But from a man who denies the Holocaust, nothing surprises anymore. In Hungary, the boots also emerged with the militant nationalist party Jobbik as the second largest batch. The ultranationalist golden dawn in Greece also made a good choice. The Swedish Nationalist Democrats in Sweden have now been brought into the European Parliament for the first time after almost every 10 Swedish voters voted for them. What can explain that as many EU citizens chose as they did? I don't think there's a simple explanation here. The choice may be a reaction to the country’s own governments, which I believe are valid both for France and Sweden – not least for Sweden because they lack a proper debate on immigration. In any case, it is both dangerous and wrong to dismiss everything that comes from criticism of the EU project as groundless. From the Norwegian side, we should welcome prejudice-free debates on the development of and within the EU. Claims that the EU has become too heavy, too wide and too bureaucratic have not been removed. If the ‘project’ does not deliver in future in areas such as employment, growth and innovation, the criticism will only increase in strength. Not least, it will be absolutely necessary to meet the demand for improvements in the field of immigration without prejudice, and not just with reference to the pillar of freedom of movement. At home, the Brochmann Committee pointed out that if Norway is to maintain the welfare state, new members of society need to be integrated and involved in working life with the majority population as far as possible. The European Court of Justice recently concluded that immigrants who move only to receive social assistance cannot claim financial assistance for residence in their country of residence. The Pillar of Free Movement was never meant to target those who travel around Europe in search of the highest social benefits. On the contrary, such social-security shopping, or welfare tourism, contributes to undermining the whole system. The TTIP negotiations between the EU and the United States, if successful, will lead to the establishment of the world’s largest free trade area. This will also have consequences for Norway, even if we are not a member of the EU. Here it is important that Norway closely monitor developments, which I also perceive that the government is doing. Although Europe is more than the EU, Europe is also the EU. Europe – so beautiful and irresistible that the most powerful of all gods, Zevs, transformed themselves into an ox and kidnapped and seduced her – is probably still beautiful, but has also worn some less charming sides. I cry a tear for Europe when I see the emergence of destructive forces. But – again – there was a reaction to something. As I said, the EU has, in many eyes, evolved to be too inclusive, too heavy and untransparent, and has not been able to make a sufficient contribution to good enough solutions in key policy areas. Although Norway is not a member of the EU, we are so closely linked to the EU through the EEA Agreement and other agreements that this also affects us. The leftover impression for many is that there is too much distance between Brussels and citizens, and that a number of decisions are taken over the heads of people and down the heads of people. You can equal or not equal the EU. There is no EU debate here today. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that it is difficult not to see the attractiveness that the EU has had, and still has, of so-called new democracies in Europe. I believe in European integration, but it must be done on the premises of the national states and in a less bureaucratic and more transparent format. At best, the skepticism that we have seen can bring the ‘project’ back to the EU — and that is what we are closely influenced by — get it back on track. In the worst cases, darkness can descend further across Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e283	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the State Council of Helgesen for a very broad and informative presentation of relevant issues in the EU and the EEA. Thus, when one thinks that it is now six to seven years since we had a financial crisis that has affected both the United States and the EU very strongly — it has led to high unemployment both in the EU and in the United States — we can see that six to seven years later unemployment is halved in the United States, while we still have major economic and unemployment challenges in the EU, and especially in the southern part of the eurozone. This means that the economy of the European Union can be brought to a close. When it comes to the EEA Agreement, it's a clear general idea that it works very well. There are not so many issues that create the very political controversy, and it is an agreement that brings us into the EU's internal market, which is very important for Norwegian business. I also think that the experience we have with a government council of our own that follows this has been positive. We also see that when it concerns the number of EEA cases, legal acts, which are not part of the agreement, there will always be a certain number, while in the last meeting of the EEA Council the number has been reduced by 30 pst. There's one area I want to challenge especially, and that's what the Council of State also addressed in its distribution, which relates to climate and the environment. The EU has decided to reduce greenhouse gases by 40 pst. by 2030. State council Helgesen said in his statement: ‘Norway argued that the EU should choose one ambitious target for greenhouse gas emission reductions. The EU chose several objectives.’ I found it interesting that the EU chose here a more ambitious objective and more objectives. So the Council given by Norway to the EU was not listened to by the EU itself. I am pleased, because I believe that the approach adopted by the EU is right from a climate perspective, that we also need more targets. Yes, we need an overarching target around greenhouse gas emissions, but we also need goals, what we should do within, among other things. the renewable. It might be exciting to challenge the Council of States if it has made some reflections just after the Council that the government has chosen to give, when one sees that the EU has chosen not to follow it. It's a matter that's been particularly up and debated, and it's these financial regulators and what kind of intervention it gives. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice’s legal department has concluded that parts of these financial regulators have the competence to take decisions directly affecting market participants, crossing the threshold of what is known as a ‘low-level transfer of competence’. As we from the Christian People's Party have said before, we therefore think it is quite right to treat them according to the Constitution § 115, which corresponds to the former § 93. So that means that a connection will require three fourths of a plural. In this area, I thought I should learn from Denmark, as well. has held a more critical hold on how to use this clause. It is said most of all when the Council of State comments on the EFTA-EU negotiations on the so-called EEA funds, with the following words: ‘The distance between the parties is still very large.’ Again, we see that the EU is trying to get EFTA countries in EEA cooperation to pay greater contributions to the most economically weak countries in the EU. The willingness to pay in the EU's economically strong country is limited. For many years, we have seen a well-known pattern in which EU Member States would like to accept different forms of support, but would prefer to limit their membership contributions themselves. The Council of State has our full support when it comes to resisting attempts to expand the EU territory to which Norwegian EEA funds should be able to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e305	‘Somewhat very wrong can happen to Norway’ was the warnings given by one of the leading politicians of the yes-page seven days before the Norwegian people were going to vote over a Norwegian EU membership. The Prime Minister at that time went even further. She would not have listened to a single company that was in the start-up pit with new investment plans, if it were no in November. The predictions of Norway’s downfall were greatly exaggerated. On 22 May 1995 we could, among other things, read about a double page in Today's Business How the yes-page doomsday prophecies were made to shame: ‘Everything has been better in the Norwegian economy since Norway said no to the EU on 28 November last year. interest rates have fallen, growth has increased, budget deficits are swindled and investments are falling.» Sitata I read now, is exactly 20 years old, and there are those of us who will celebrate on Friday. Today we know how it went. Nothing has happened very wrong with Norway. Who in this room thinks that the investment would have been higher in Norway today if we had been a member of the EU? Who thinks that unemployment had been lower, or that optimism had been greater? Today, a solid majority of the Norwegian people are happy that it went as it went. As a member, we would have lost more right of self-determination, we would have been subject to more of the EU's laws, and the chance is great that we too would have been forced to pay the euro. The EU's free movement of capital has given neither more jobs nor economic growth, rather the opposite. EU budget discipline requirements prevent countries from using public resources to strengthen weak regions. The euro locks the countries in a hopeless situation. Greece cannot lower its exchange rate in its own currency so that Greek companies can sell more of their goods. EU countries are checkmates - this means that they can't be used. This is an unpleasant fact that makes Europeans want to admit, and which was also absent from the Council of State. One cannot have an economic union but also a political union. When EU countries have a single currency and a common interest rate, it is particularly difficult to have a common budget. The EU elite is now increasingly pressing for closer coordination of the State budget. As a result, most Europeans lose influence over their country, over their community and over their own lives. Unfortunately, we also see that an emerging skeptical attitude is being taken by the EU, which has an unfortunate impact. That many more are skeptical, I understand very well, but it also gets some results that we don't want. The Norwegian people said no to the EU. They refused to allow lawyers and bureaucrats in Brussels to have access to Norway, but the people were given something else; they were given the EEA, without ever being asked. The EEA Agreement was deepened, even in areas where it was promised would not be affected by it. District policy is under attack by e.g. the differentiated employer fee has disappeared for a number of industries. The monopoly of wine is weak and no longer has the monopoly of imports. The ownership restriction Norway had in the finance industry is pushed out. One of the most important areas we would preserve outside the EU was agriculture. Nevertheless, Norwegian food production is still being challenged, not least through the ongoing Article 19 negotiations. It has been stated that these negotiations will take place every other year, and then it is mildly observed that the State Council responsible creates a picture that Norway's change to the cheese duty is the background for the negotiations to come up again, two years after the previous round of negotiations had ended. This year we have a whole new situation. While the red-green government was busy defending Norwegian production and Norwegian jobs in primary industries and industry, we now have a government which, long before the negotiations begin, talks down Norwegian interests in Brussels, and which, long before the negotiations begin, announces that they will eliminate the customs duties on 114 agricultural products. It is mildly said that there is a poor negotiating strategy if one wants to promote Norwegian interests. Of course, these toll lines could have been used as a negotiation card. It is the government and the council's duty to defend what Stortinget's plural has decreed. It is neither fluid nor wrong to defend Norwegian interests. But perhaps this seems to be a good example of the government's attitude, it is more important to ensure sober Commissioners in Brussels than to stand up for Norwegian interests, Norwegian jobs and Stortinget's wishes. Today, I hope the Council of State can do its best to defend Norwegian interests in the ongoing Article 19 negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e329	This month we mark two anniversarys. On November 9th it was 25 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall. The Iron Curtain crumbled, Germany reunited, and Eastern Europe and Western Europe gradually merged into a broad pan-European cooperation. It's an event we should remember with unspeakable joy. The first weekend is another anniversary, the 20th anniversary of Norway's no to membership of the EU. The senses around that selection are probably separated by more. If a true measure of opinion is to be taken, its people still stand by law from 1994 onwards. At the same time, a measurement in the Official Journal of Bergen showed on the weekend that 71 pst. of the Nordics, they feel strongly or strongly linked to Europe, ranging from 60 pst. in 2003 and 57 pst. in 1995. The European Minister’s statement reflects this to a large extent. Norway is becoming ever closer to its neighbours, and through many broad-front processes Norwegian interests in games are every day. For example, Norway is deeply integrated into the EU’s research cooperation. That's good. Both Norwegian researchers and Norwegian institutions should be active in searching for funds there. From the left side, we're happy that we've got the government that we're also going to participate in the Copernicus cooperation in the future. In some areas, the government has been very successful in European policy. Succession of acts to enter into the EEA Agreement is under way. Norwegian government councils are apparently more present in the European arena than was the case before, and, not least, one has found a good solution to the difficult issue of financial supervision. I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister of Europe for the clear position the government has taken in relation to Hungary. Developments in that country are going in the wrong direction. Both the reform of the judiciary, the control of the press and, in particular, the treatment of national minorities effectively undermine Hungary’s status as a state governed by law and as a liberal democracy. At the same time, I might wish that the ruling party Right and, for that matter, the Christian People's Party could be even tougher with the Hungarian government party Fidesz, which is their sister party, etc. through the EPP cooperation. The EU can find it difficult to see that the Prime Minister of a Member State declares that he has the aim of creating an illiberal democracy, with China and Russia as a model. Right and Christian People's Party should definitely not look at one of their sister parties doing the same thing. The fact that the government is trying to be present in EU processes before the decision is taken is something that the Left considers to be very positive. Then we're probably not always quite a few with the government in what solutions they work for. For example, the left strongly disagreed with the government's view of the EU's future climate objectives. Fortunately, the EU is drawing closer to its vision than to its government. One shall continue to have a climate policy with clear targets for both CO2 reduction, energy saving and increased renewable power generation. Then it says to see what the government wants for our secret climate policy. In spring, Minister of Climate Change Sundtoft said that we could not be anything less ambitious than the EU. I'm excited if it's still on the ground. There are three ongoing processes which mean much to Norway: the Article 19 negotiations, negotiations on Norway’s EEA contribution and negotiations on access to Norwegian fish and seafood. The left assumes that the government in all of these processes is working for good solutions for Norway, and expects them to keep the European selection and the size of the population up to date on progress. Then there are some other negotiations where we don't sit around the table, but which are still potentially very important to Norway. There are TTIP negotiations between the US and the EU. That two so important trading partners for us are working to create a common market there 50 pst. of the global GDP will be included, is initially very positive. The challenge for us comes, of course, if we can't become part of that market. In particular, Norwegian fishing interests risk becoming heavily damaged if our relative market access – and thus our competitive – is weakened as a result of a trade agreement. We are pleased that the EFTA countries and the EU have now set up a joint dialogue forum to update what is happening and that is relevant to us. At the same time, it is difficult to see — at this stage — the full consequences of the future trade agreement. The only thing that is certain is that Norwegian companies and exporters must have good access both to the EU and to a major player like the United States. There is no such option. The European Minister should regard it as one of his most important tasks in the future to follow this process closely and to protect Norwegian interests in what could become a trade agreement for history books.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e355	I think of the fall of the Berlin Wall as a big eye-blink that led to freedom and, after all, to a great welfare boost for many people in Europe. And I – as some other representatives here in the Chamber – actually belong to the last generation that thinks of the cold war as young people, and we are probably also a generation where this has shaped our political function to a great extent. Fortunately, the fall of the wall brought great improvements to many people in Europe, but the idea of building walls to deal with a conflict unfortunately did not die entirely with the fall of the Berlin Wall, since that time there is a built wall on the West Bank, in West Africa – by Israel and Morocco respectively – to deal with conflicts that they are responsible for there. If not a physical wall, we now experience the construction of a wall around Europe – against the challenge of refugees that Europe faces, and against the increase in migration that we are sure to see even more in the years and decades to come. We can have read in both Norwegian and international media that a struggle to motivate efforts among European countries to save refugees from drowning in the Mediterranean. Strong images and reporters show that many people pay human smugglers and risk their lives on the sea in far too bad crafts. Italy has initiated, through the rescue project Mare Nostrum, after Lampedusa-tradienst in 2013, more than 150,000 people from the refugee death. The Swedish Shipowners’ Association reports that Norwegian ships alone have recorded more than 4,000 people in 2014. Now it is Frontex and the EU that have taken over the border controls from Italy, in a much smaller project. I demand that Norway, together with others, can take more seriously this challenge, and do more to deal with an enormously important situation with tragic consequences for many people we know to be facing in the Mediterranean. Unfortunately, we also experience the construction of other walls, which fortunately are not physical, between East and West in Europe. There's reason to condemn the Russian international crimes in Ukraine, and there's reason to fear that what they're doing in East Ukraine is part of a strategy they have in Moldova and Georgia, which is about creating an uncertain part of a state around them, making it an uncertain state with unsolved border issues and internal issues around them, just as it is in Georgia and Moldova. There is a need for clarity and tough criticism, but it is also necessary if we are to find our security in Europe, that this can only be done in cooperation and cooperation between East and West. We also have to learn that from 100 years of history. Then I would like to pay tribute to the European Minister for talking about Europe's challenges when it comes to security, but also economics, with the seriousness of its fortifications, in its broad outline. It is not a temporary crisis, but a lasting social and economic crisis and the EU's unemployment crisis. In time, the internal market would be the solution to mass unemployment in the 1980s. Since then, unemployment in Europe has grown rapidly – now more recently with a new round of the new financial crisis – and now a trade agreement with the United States, which many economic tracks have marginal effects, should be the solution. It is necessary to take seriously the long-term mass unemployment that has now grown up in many countries in Europe and that appears to be a risk to the entire economic and social project of which Europe – and we – is part. So I thought it was a problem with European policy, as he is now led by the government, that it seems to be the most euro-enthusiast – much more enthusiastic than large parts of the people – the politicians who are driving European policy in government and perhaps also emphasizing the debate here in the United Kingdom, and that we are therefore less critical and less alert to our interests and values in important matters. The representative of the Navarset, called the ostetoll, the representatives of Hareide and Rotevatn, called the climate change measure, where, in my view, we played a very destructive role, and the question of the transatlantic trade agreement is another example. I and other representatives have taken up the question of an investor-state mechanism. The government has no view of it, while in Europe there is a strong resistance — including scepticism in the governments of Germany, France and the United Kingdom. It is important that a more active European policy means more commitment to our values and interests and not explaining Europe’s interests better to Norwegian voters and wholesalers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e372	The security policy picture in Europe took a lot of time in my presentation. There has been a lot of attention in this debate so far, and there are good reasons for this – both because the situation is serious and because it has led to significant changes in the EU's own foreign and security policy dynamics. It is an important dimension for Norway. It is true that if we are both to deal with the challenges and threats we see, and to build long-term dialogue and efforts for a political solution, then in Europe the European Union has the most important tools, because no one wants a military escalation. Policy and economic instruments must be used. The EU and Europe are also facing an economic situation that calls for more growth and more competitiveness. The alternative continues to be deeper social and political problems. The alternative is that Europe continues to deteriorate in the global picture. It is also a safety challenge, and it is also not good for Norwegian interests. This challenge must be met with open borders, with continued emphasis on free movement – not with protectionism. Nor does Norway have to meet this challenge of protectionism. Action at EU level is required. Financial supervision is an example of such measures. Responsible economic policies and good reforms are required at national level. Strong efforts are required on research, education and innovation. New growth impulses are required, as set out in the investment package under preparation by the Commission, and not least in the cooperation agreement – the free trade and investment agreement – that is under negotiation between the EU and the United States. All these things are important to ensure a Europe that gives people the opportunity to develop, which provides both economic dynamism, social protection and political participation, and it is important to ensure a Europe that plays a role in the world. Norway is in a completely different economic situation. But our economy is also doing better when the European economy is doing better. Our political cooperation with the EU is also better if European policies are not influenced by extreme forces. There are major Norwegian interests at stake in what is now happening in Europe, and there are major Norwegian interests at stake in our cooperation with the EU. More than 80 pst. of what we sell goes to the EU market. In that case, the EEA Agreement is itself a significant Norwegian interest, and being against the EEA Agreement is not fighting for Norwegian interests. Two thirds of Norwegian investment goes to the EU area. Two thirds of Norway’s investment comes from the EU area. Then peace, stability and dynamism in financial markets are very important. Trust in the Norwegian financial market is then very important, and then a financial supervision solution is also very important. To oppose the type of solutions is not to stand up for Norwegian interests. Our very largest industry, the petroleum industry, is strongly affected by the EU's climate and energy framework and by the EU's energy security strategy. Then it's important to be on the ball. This government has provided written input to the EU processes in three rounds, and we have been in close dialogue both with Brussels and with the capitals to stand up for Norwegian interests. Our second largest industry, fisheries and maritime food, can face significant challenges due to the TTIP negotiations between the EU and the United States. We have been very early in reporting our interests and trying to improve mechanisms for consultation with both the United States and the EU, because Norwegian interests are at stake. The list of Norwegian interests that need to be taken care of – and that need to be taken care of with early efforts – is considerably longer, but I concentrate on these examples. It is also important to work hard for Norwegian interests in the three parallel negotiations now under way on the EEA funds, on fish and seafood and on agricultural products. We will interact closely with the European Committee of the Storting in these negotiation processes, and it is important for us to see this as a demanding national exercise in which all negotiations are about giving and taking. This is about giving and taking on three negotiating tracks. Then it is also important to build confidence that Norway is a negotiating partner that you can trust. Then it's not a good start, for example. to cut appropriations from the current contractual period, such as the Centre Party; has been proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e389	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e393	State Council Helgesen not only has the longest title of government. He must also have the most comprehensive portfolio of government, if he is to follow this statement, because it is far reaching. At the end, he promises the broad global perspective on the competitive situation in Norway. Among the things he then says is necessary in order for us to meet this competition – because I guess we won't go up to Turkey's week of work in 51 hours, I don't suspect him for that – is a sentence that I assume there must be some thought behind it, that 'we have to make extensive structural changes'. Can we get some examples of the major structural changes that the Council of State thinks we need to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e398	Let me first point out that if the portfolio is comprehensive, it is also that the statement on key EU and EEA issues is the government's presentation. We are concerned that Norway should not just be a good society today, and that we should not just make decisions today that provide solutions in the short term, but that we must at the same time equip Norway for the future. Then we have structural challenges that lie in the transition to the renewable society. Norway is a heavy petroleum-based economy. We will be doing so for a long time in the future, but we have to make decisions today that are important in 20 and 30 years' time. That is why we must also be prepared for structural changes. There is a debate that we have to take, although much of the attention is focused on next year's budget or on the elections in one or three years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e403	I thank you for your answer. Another sentence at the end of the presentation is the following: «We must invest in research and development.» Is the Council of State happy that the Christian People's Party and the Left won the battle for funds to Copernicus, as the Council of State, and I count on the Minister of Research, not won into the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e410	Norway participates widely in EU programmes, and we have increased our efforts in economic terms, among other things. through the efforts and participation of Horizon 2020. We are also very pleased by the government with the budget agreement in Stortinget. This also applies to the clarification of Norway’s continued participation in Copernicus.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e415	The Christian People's Party is also one of the parties that, in our primary policy of European policy, says a clear yes to the EEA and a no to the EU, and I very much agree with the words of the Minister of Europe. It is not for Norway to fight against the EEA. I am also very pleased with the clear guidance given by the Minister that Norway's interests will now be fully safeguarded, both in negotiations on the EEA, fish and agriculture. My question is on the climate targets. For here we gave the government clear advice to the EU, but the Council chose the EU not to listen to it at all. Has there been any evaluation of the leadership that Norway gave around the climate targets? That is my question to the EU Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e422	It is true that the EU achieved three objectives in the climate and energy framework in nominal terms, but it is also true that there is one specific objective and that is the objective of emission reductions. That is what should be binding at national level. The renewable and energy efficiency improvement objectives are not binding at country level. And to us that was what was important. Norway has a very high renewable share. We're proud of that. We are still spending a lot of time on renewables, and we are a significant nation in terms of contributions to European renewables. However, for Norway to set binding targets for further renewable efforts is not necessarily what will give the best climate impact. It could be that we would be assigned targets where we had to invest so much resources that these resources could give greater climate impact in other ways. And it is this national freedom of action to achieve the emission target through national instruments that are the most comprehensive and important, and what we thought was important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e429	In his statement last Thursday, the Council of State referred to the married couple Moser, who were awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine. The Council of State claimed that their success began with EU networks and EU funds. It is interesting to note that Nobel Prize winners have been involved in sending a letter to the European Commission as a question mark in the organisation of the European brain programme. Here critical voices have argued that the measurements appear unrealistic and the administration too top-notch and authoritarian. Successful research has suggested that creativity and ideas must come from below. Does the Council of State have any concern that Norwegian research is subject to EU top management?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e436	Let me first make it clear that I did not say that success started with EU networks and EU money, but that it started with two sharp heads, two sharp brains; that is the most important thing. Then there is every reason to listen to these two researchers, and other researchers, who point out that there is too much bureaucracy and too much top management in the EU's handling of research funds. There are many aspects of EU cooperation to which we are critical and to which individual actors in Norwegian society are also critical. Therefore, it is also important that not only the government and the authorities, but also different Norwegian actors work for simplification. One simplification that has taken place in research cooperation is that it has become easier for companies to apply for funding in Horizon 2020 than it was under the previous framework programme, but at the same time it has become more demanding for some research institutions. These include: one of the reasons why we have proposed additional funding for incentives for participation in Horizon 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e447	Sometimes it is necessary to work against, where appropriate to reserve, EU rules if they relate to vital interests. Left meant t.d. that the Data Storage Directive was such a question. On the other hand, what we have problems understanding is why the government is apparently working against an EU regulation to facilitate capital requirements for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, the so-called SME discount. This has been taken up by the Council of State in the past, the last time in the debate. Then state councillor Helgesen said the following: "When it comes to the question of capital requirements, I will be allowed to come back to it, because it is a complicated matter, and we have communicated so far a view that will not necessarily be the last chapter of this story." My question is whether we are getting closer to the last chapter of this story, and what might be in that chapter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e459	I must be allowed to stand by the previous comment. This is a question that lies with the Minister of Finance, and where there has been no new developments. But I also promised the representative who took it up the previous time to follow up when new messages had to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e464	I'll try to get right if the government has or has intended to get a position on one of the issues that are now being debated quite widely in Europe, namely the so-called investor-state dispute resolution mechanism in a possible trade agreement with the United States. Let me explain what this is: it's about investors being able to demand the replacement of states for decisions, regulations and other things that they think frame them. There are already some trade agreements today. It changes the balance between a country and a company, but the special thing here is that with what is on the table as a proposal, the rights that businesses in the EU get through the agreement will be greater than the rights they have through national legislation. Thus, an EU company that is not satisfied should be able to sue the EU through a subsidiary in the United States and achieve more than they would have done through the existing regulations. As I said, there is strong opposition to this in Europe, and many countries have committed themselves. Does the government intend to commit itself to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e472	Let me first keep to the EU level: we have taken up the EU side – last week, with the EU Trade Commissioner – that we believe that more transparency is a good thing, because it will help to demystify, and it will help to create less mythology about what is in these negotiations. This is an area where there's been some mythology, but it's also an area where time will show what will actually lie. This government is not opposed to investor-state dispute settlements. On a national basis, we have started work on drawing up a Norwegian mandate for negotiating investment agreements, and we are closely monitoring what the EU and EU Member States are doing in this area. It has been suggested that we draft a new model agreement, which will be sent at general consultation, so that everyone can comment. Again, we do not have concerns about the principle of such agreements. The design of the agreement and its contents must be decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e481	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e484	The Council of State started its presentation by referring to what happened in Berlin 25 years ago. On 9 November 1989 the first East Germans hammered through the hated wall. Today we may have forgotten that there were actually two Germanys, that we had a so-called Iron Curtain across Europe, that we had the Soviet Union, we had a Czechoslovakia, a Yugoslavia, and there were no independent Baltic states. Today, the three free Baltic States are members of NATO and of the EU. After 25 years of building a new Europe, we are currently seeing security policy challenges on our doorstep. From Ukraine to Syria and Iraq, Somalia and the Sahel region, we see alarming developments that are becoming increasingly important to us both in the Nordic countries and in Europe. We look with apprehension at the barbaric and brutal behaviour of ISIL in Iraq and Syria, and the flow of refugees from Syria is the largest since World War II. Russia’s acts of international law — or lack of it — are also a reminder that Europe is not immune to security concerns. For us in Norway, it is important that we maintain our active cooperation with Russia in the northern regions, while clearly reporting violations of international law. But the management of the Arctic areas requires cooperation between all Arctic countries. We have to hold on to that, too. The Council of State referred to Norwegian cooperation with Germany and Poland. It is a cooperation which the parliamentarians of the Nordic Council also strengthen. I am also pleased with what he said about the government and the Nordic Council of Ministers want to use Nordic cooperation more actively in European policy. The Nordic Council has chosen to add its memoir in spring 2015 to Brussels and hopes to strengthen cooperation with the European Parliament. Nordic cooperation is increasingly part of European integration. Nordic cooperation must therefore also be part of European policy. In Nordic cooperation, we have been concerned that the Nordic cooperation model will be robust and sustainable. There are therefore increasing numbers of countries, including in Europe, looking at our ability to secure work, growth and well-being. We're relatively close even to the financial crisis that we have around us. As a Nordic Social-Democrat, I often talk to European colleagues about what is going on in order to bring innovation and growth in Europe, about the possible counter-productive nature of the right-hand side's savings policy, and that instead it needs to stimulate growth, and that political programmes must be set up to achieve this. Defence policy is perhaps the most dynamic cooperation in the Nordic region today. This will take place within the framework of respect for the policy of alliance and foreign policy. Both the EU and NATO look with interest at the NORDEFCO cooperation. There is also a close link between NORDEFCO and the so-called Northern Group, an informal defence cooperation between the Nordic countries, the Baltic countries, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Poland. This is not least interesting in today's security policy reality, and may be interesting to further develop as well as further regional defence and security policy cooperation in northern Europe. Finally, the Nordic region is a dynamic region in Europe. But no matter how important we are, with our model of social development, we need to be aware that the European Union also sees other regions as important, as Europe looks today. It might also be an important recognition and something we're going to take the consequences of. Things are happening not least in southern Europe. The southern European countries are facing serious challenges, as I said. We also have a responsibility to contribute to solutions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e501	I would also like to thank the Council of State for a very good and thorough presentation. Through more articles here in today's debate, we from the Right will go into important individual areas. Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. It is also becoming more and more of Norwegian domestic policy. EU legislation has great influence in all areas of Norwegian policy and society, and EEA membership is crucial for our value creation and for our well-being. Unfortunately, the debate on the development of the EU and Norway's role as an EEA member is taking place today against a backdrop of economic and social challenges, a lack of growth and a high level of unemployment. The security policy picture has already been thoroughly explained. Norwegian European policy is on a whole new track. Developments in Europe in the last year show that the government has been showing an unusually good timing by setting up its own EU/EEA ministerial post. Since then, we have received the government's European strategy and the creation of a separate European committee within the government to coordinate matters across departments. There is also reason to highlight the new national administrative guidelines on EEA and Schengen matters, and that through EFTA Norway has adopted new procedures to ensure faster processing of EU acts, because among the objectives of Norwegian European policy, it is just getting faster to implement EEA legislation in Norwegian law, so that we can ensure Norwegian business life an equivalent framework to EU competitors. We are earlier in processes, and we influence the design of EU legislation before it is adopted. The Government has ensured that Norwegian participation in the expert group is now preparing for new EU rules. Another new scheme is that Norwegian Governments meet regularly at the informal ministerial meetings of the EU to actively take initiatives to promote Norwegian interests. We are no longer waiting for EU decisions. It is very positive that initiatives are being taken at the same time at the level of the Prime Minister for closer Nordic coordination of European affairs. The slow pace of Europe was the main theme of the speech of the new President of the European Commission to the European Parliament in September. The aim is to provide a basis for economic growth and to create more jobs, including: through a major investment package. Energy and climate programmes, energy security, digitisation of research, innovation and entrepreneurship are important initiatives for the European Commission. Norway participates in a number of these programmes through the EEA Agreement, in 2014 with around 2.58 billion. kr. How the EU's concrete actions in key areas will be developed through a new work programme will be presented to the European Parliament before Christmas. It is satisfactory to note that Norway is now making a contribution to the process. EU ambitions are great in successfully negotiating a free trade agreement with the United States – TTIP. The United States and the EU account for half the world's GDP and 30 pst. of world trade. They're our two most important trading partners. 70 pst. of Norwegian and 86 pst. of our exports goes to these markets. A free trade agreement such as TTIP will therefore have a major impact on Norway and Norwegian business. Especially for fish exports, it can be serious, as we do not have the right to customs duty for fish exports to either the EU or the United States. At the same time, an agreement can also lead to increased growth and purchasing power, which is beneficial for the Norwegian economy. It is then essential to do everything we can to ensure Norwegian companies have the same good conditions in our main export markets as the competing US and EU companies will have. Commentators in the United States point out that the election results there are now likely to increase the likelihood that the TTIP negotiations are speeding up. It is positive that the EU places emphasis on transparency in the negotiations. The negotiating mandate has been released and there is expressed willingness to provide increased transparency in negotiating documents, transparency related to assisting and closer dialogue with relevant actors. The government is in the process of identifying and designing Norwegian positions and then promoting this towards both the United States and the EU. Yesterday, it was also clear that Norway is part of the so-called ‘preliminary initiative’, which is a cooperation to improve the EU’s internal market in four priority areas. Finally, there has been a time-out in the negotiations with the EU on the size of the EEA contribution. The EU has a strong demand for an increased contribution, which Norway has not been able to accept without delay. It should be noted in the Norwegian position that continuation of EEA contributions requires satisfactory market access solutions for fish. I would like to take the opportunity to commend the government for the proactive work done on ongoing processes with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e527	Let me also start by thanking the European Minister for a clear and good presentation. I am happy with ministers who are clear in their message and who are convinced of what they stand for. It's positive, and there I hope several other ministers can take after Helgesen. There are major challenges in Europe. All the answers are not in Brussels. Lack of economic growth is due to more relationships, and then we must not fool ourselves. The emergence of different parties of independence or independence, or what we should call them, is not only a protest against lack of jobs, but also a signal about the alienation that many people feel in their own country. Cooperation in Europe is positive. Cross-border labour provides economic growth. But cooperation in Europe must not be at the expense of the democracy of the nation states. Nor has it been given that economic growth should be the only way to measure European success. But economic growth has been, and the representative of Navarsete is wrong when she claims that it has not given rise to economic growth in Europe in the last 20 years – or if we go back in time. Economic growth has been created – there is no doubt that jobs and economic growth have been created. But we also have to be honest and admit that we do not know what it would have been like without the EEA. It is not certain that we had been completely isolated, and that no one would have been interested in our oil and gas or the talents our knowledge school could possibly produce. We don't know. What we know is that cooperation has given jobs, cooperation has given technology development, cooperation has given economic growth. It's positive. There is no European movement for a political union. What we know, however, is that economic cooperation creates interdependence. Mutual dependence is positive. Mutual dependence also brings peace. When countries are economically dependent on each other, they also have less reason, or the ability or desire to create conflicts between countries. It's positive. At the same time, we should also be aware that EU cooperation, EEA cooperation, is a legalisation of policy. It's not a small matter. In fact, it is very serious that more and more different international organisations take over power and authority from national parliaments. People in many countries feel frustrated by this very fact that independence is weakening. Yes, we must strengthen our economic ties with Europe. It requires the exchange of labour and the ability of capital to flow across borders. It is also positive that we have exchanges in research and development. But this must be done in agreement with the inhabitants. If citizens want to reduce the pace of integration, politicians must listen, not overestimate. The choice of the European Parliament, as some have mentioned before me, is an event that the majority of Europeans have no relation to, although cooperation is too comprehensive, too heavy and bureaucratic, as my co-representative Kristian Norheim expressed it. It's not without reason that batches of national character are growing. There's no point in characterizing parties that clearly show their frustration over evolution, it's actually a fact that it happens, and condemning them is little point in it. A legislative act may prove to have little effect, with little impact on Norway. But when you take all the legislative acts together, it has something to say about the total instigation of national parliaments. It's important. There's no small problem. It's actually very serious. And as it is so popular to say, it is important that we take the debate, that we dare to take the debate. Now we're taking the debate, and then I'm so honest to say that I have an ambivalent relationship with EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e546	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good presentation, which confirms that European policy is so much more than what is happening in Brussels. In its previous reports to the European Council, the Council of State has made it clear that the current European policy must be a teamwork. Although we are many who want to be team players, I find it frustrating to record that we are usually referred to the tribunal when the ‘European Team’ makes decisions. Even after 20 years as an EEA member, I regret to say that the EU considers us more like a supporter club than a team member. We are probably many in this room who find such a role somewhat frustrating, but we have to live with it. In June this year, the Council of State said that in order to succeed in influencing important decisions in the EU, Norway needs to be clearer, heavier and earlier on European policy issues. I assume that such statements are based on his own and on the experiences of others that the way to directly influencing decisions in the EU is, unfortunately, more shaky than we like. Negotiations on EEA funds, fisheries and agriculture show that the road is still long, despite good ambitions. The statement states that there is a great deal of work to be done to include different acts in the EEA Agreement. We know that some of them create annoyance, while others contribute to joy — from what point of view. Many may find it provocative that the EU sees us as sinking in this area. But we defend ourselves that in many of the acts, we depend on others to do the job. But in any case, European policy is to the highest degree domestic policy at all levels. In this context, there are many high expectations that progress and a rapid solution will be achieved in terms of EEA funds, fish and agriculture. I will give my full support to the government when they link the continuation of the EEA funds to ensure better market access for the maritime food industry. When the leader of the Coastal Fisheries Team and EU opponent Arne Pedersen from Vadsø also says that there is a way to go, then the government is on track. Climate challenges have an obvious place in the presentation. What is said is good, but I have to say that I was surprised – like many others – that the government has opted out of participation in the Copernicus environmental monitoring programme in 2015. Fortunately, the government has realized that it was not reasonable, and then with the good help of the Christian People's Party and the Left. Several speakers have so far expressed concerns about the visible place of the outermost right parties in European policy. I'm not going to repeat this, but I'm going to say that I'm going to support Mr. Norheim's views on that occasion. I think the Council of State rightly spent a lot of time on the security policy challenges facing both our continent and the rest of the world. The Syrian conflict and the crazy behaviour of ISIL, as well as what is happening in Ukraine, confirm that far away there is no longer, and that what is happening far away affects us in our everyday lives to a greater extent than we like. Foreign fighters can be a key element here, and sanctions, where countermeasures and local unemployment are used, can be different. History shows that big political everyday life can change from one day to another. It happened in Berlin 25 years ago, and it happened in Ukraine when Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula. Today's Europe is facing major security policy challenges, as many have said from today's pulpit. It shows the need to stand together when the struggle of people for freedom or the territorial boundaries of a country is challenged. The fact that Norway is involved with the EU, NATO and the United States is the way it should be. We see that the sanctions with which the world community responds to Russia work, as the last issue of the magazine The Economist so clearly shows, with an image on the front of the Russian bear with blood trail after it, and with the title of “the damaged economy of Russia”, with the sub-title “and the danger it represents to the rest of the world”. In a combination of falling oil prices, the increasing debt of Russian companies to foreign banks, as well as the effects of the sanctions, the negative economic development in Russia poses a major challenge, in addition to what is happening in the battlefield of eastern Ukraine. And when we know that there are hundreds of thousands of jobs in different countries in Europe that depend on trade with Russia, it is in everyone's interest to seek a diplomatic solution to this conflict – the sooner the better, which in turn means that someone has to talk more together. Although the talks between Germany's Foreign Minister Steinmeier and Putin in Moscow last week did not contribute to optimism in the current situation, we cannot and must not give up hope of a peaceful solution in Ukraine. That responsibility rests primarily on Vladimir Putin's shoulders, but we others can contribute. It may sound naive, but I think that Norway, with its good experience in interaction with Russia in our northern part of the country, can be a door opener to create an arena where you can talk. I therefore urge the government to take this initiative, because we need more dialogue and more action than the government sees in public space. It will serve Norway, it will serve predictable development in the north, and it will serve the world and Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e579	I would like to thank the Council of State for a broad and Prospective statement that clearly shows that we now have a government with ambitions to participate earlier and more clearly in important decision-making processes in the EU. The Councils of State point to the challenges facing Norway that the EU decision-making system is changing, while the EEA Agreement remains in a structure that made sense when it was introduced but which now makes it more demanding for Norway to define, define and implement different legal acts. An active European policy is a necessary prerequisite for contributing to the awareness and recognition of Norwegian interests. No other country speaks Norway’s interests in the EU but Norway itself. At the same time, our ambition must not only be to promote what is good for Norway; we must also contribute our perspectives on what is good for Europe. It's not two completely independent sizes, and to be interesting, we have to be interested, and not just in what concerns us. The representatives of Solhjell and Navarsete both expressed the government's failure to defend national interests through active European policy. It is probably more right to say that there is disagreement in this room about what our national interests are. The previous government, for example, seemed to be to believe that the logo on the coat coats of those carrying a letter of less than 50 grams represented a national interest which made it worthwhile to risk large parts of the EEA Agreement. Others again believe that competition in this area can be positive. As the Council of State said in its statement, the opposition to the EEA Agreement is not to stand up for Norwegian interests. The European investigation is clear that the EEA Agreement has served Norway very well, although it also points to the obvious weaknesses of not being around the table when important decisions are taken. The EU has high ambitions in climate and energy policy. The representative Hareide stated that the EU is more ambitious than Norway in climate policy because Norway’s input was that the EU should have an overall and ambitious climate target on emissions reduction in 2030. I hope we can agree that the most important thing is that emissions go down, not what means we use to achieve the targets. There are differences in Norway, which have nearly 100 pst. renewable power generation, and Poland, with nearly 100 pst. coal-based power generation. National action rooms are therefore important, not least for Norway, which is so many different countries in the energy sector. That being said, of course, we are not achieving the EU climate objectives without a significant shift from fossil energy to renewable energy. Similarly, energy efficiency improvement will be an important instrument. The most environmentally friendly energy is as well-known as it is not used, and Norway is well-performing with its objectives as they are now designed. Nevertheless, there are other and important climate measures that Norway needs to contribute to in Europe. This applies, inter alia, to: CO2 capture and storage. It is difficult to see that the EU will achieve its climate objectives by 2050 without succeeding in developing a cost-effective technology for this. I am therefore pleased that the government has announced that it will support a European fishing project in addition to the national work done in this area. The EU's ambitions to develop an energy union are very positive in order to achieve more efficient resource use and better use of the national energy advantages of different countries. Norway has a lot to contribute, a great potential for new renewable energy production, and the government’s new concessions to inter-national relations with Germany and the United Kingdom will be good both for climate, Norway and the EU. I believe that this is all reason to be pleased that the EU's quota system will be strengthened by 2020. The surplus of allowances will be included in a stabilisation reserve and the number of allowances will escalate faster after 2020. This will contribute to a faster reduction in emissions and may result in a higher price, making the implementation of climate action more profitable. I noticed that the representatives Hansen and Simensen are concerned about Copernicus. The cooperation parties have prioritised this in the budgetary agreement. But it'll be a little special when the Workers' Party takes this up today. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has prioritised 50 million. kr to this project. The entrance ticket is 167 million. kr. To grant 50 million. kr is the same thing as granting NOK 0, you're not letting in. This is therefore a pointless priority in the Workers' Party's alternative budget. It is essential that Norway remains vigilant when the EU and the United States are negotiating a new trade agreement. Norway is directly affected by our access to the internal market in the EU. At the same time, we are outside the EU customs union. Therefore, the reality may be that Norway will suffer a significant competitive disadvantage if the EU and the United States agree on customs freedom between themselves. I am pleased that the Council of State actively pursues Norwegian interests towards both the EU and the United States in this process. The EU is the most important political community in our part of the world. The fact that we have chosen to stand outside this community does not mean that the decisions taken are not important to us. On the contrary. In a globalised world, where power shifts from north to west to south and east, Europe's country does not become more important individually than what they are together. Borderless challenges cannot be solved in solitude; they must be solved through cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e610	First of all, I would also like to thank you for a clear and good report from the State Council, Helgesen. Our relationship with Europe and European cooperation mechanisms provide us with great opportunities in the first place. Norway is making a major contribution to an active and overarching attitude. Our robust economy and our natural resources will be less valuable if we isolate ourselves. In the future, our exports to Europe will only become more important and important to us. Before I address some of the challenges we will face in terms of trade policy, I would just like to point out the need to continue to strengthen Norway's participation in European judicial cooperation. I believe that Norway, in the face of increasing global crime, still needs to do everything we can to actively participate in police cooperation, such as Europol, in prosecution cooperation, such as Eurojust, and not least to participate in European cooperation on investigation, including the Prüm Agreement, which will provide us with opportunities for active use of DNA as a tool in resolving criminal matters. In my opinion, having access to searches in Europe’s databases when we find DNA tracks here in Norway is crucial to the fight against international crime, such as drug addiction. trafficking, drug trafficking, Internet crime, terrorism, financial crime and violence. I sincerely hope that Norway will also have the power to cooperate actively in order to facilitate the transfer of prisoners to their country of origin. Here we must actively signal that Norway will be involved. I also believe that it is essential that we seek to focus our use of EEA funds on prevention of crime and mechanisms that strengthen Norway's cooperation with Europe. I am thinking here of measures such as police development, capacity building in criminal care and relief measures for trafficking victims. This could at the same time dampen the pressure on Norway. We now produce sea ice, here in Norway, under 40 pst. of the food we eat. Of the large agricultural imports, EU products are 70 pst. In the last ten years, EU imports of agricultural products have increased in value from 13 billion to over 30 billion. kr. Norwegian exports of agricultural products have almost stagnated at a very low level during the same period. While cheese imports – which have been much discussed – have increased, despite new customs duties, the export of cheese has fallen. From a consumer, food safety and social security point of view, this is a trend that should be reversed. I record that the State Council of Helgesen, in its statement, expects ‘substantial and offensive requirements’ in the negotiations on Article 19, on trade in agricultural products. I also hope that the government will be similarly offensive in the negotiations. When the government acknowledges that they will seek to take care of the food diversity and consumer interests in the negotiations, there is reason to stress that Norwegian consumers seem to appreciate the Norwegian producer to a greater extent and that our production can be increased. It gives great benefits to food security. This summer’s debate on antibiotic-resistant bacteria, GMOs and other factors that have created uncertainty about the food we eat gives rise to offensive Norwegian demands in the negotiations that can help increase Norwegian production. For example: there is reason to stress that the allowances granted to non-resident producers for sale in Norway are not filled. There is no reason in a consumer perspective to throw at the boat the change that was made in some toll lines when we went from crown to percentage. Moreover, as I see it, it is the clear opinion of the majority of the population that this policy should be pursued. Norway's position must respond to the will of the majority of the population. The negotiations on the EU-US Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement, TTIP, must also be closely followed by Norway. This could give us considerable challenges, especially in relation to Norwegian agriculture, if this is to be implemented in Norwegian policy. I must also say that I share the great concern expressed by large and important Member States of the European Union and by the European Parliament about the dispute resolution mechanism that has been launched. The concerns are probably more substantive than mere mythmaking, which the Council of State almost gave the impression of in the line change with the representative Solhjell. Substantial power over important societal issues, such as food security, the environment and social conditions, can risk being moved to large participations. I therefore assume that the government here is premeditated critical in the work. The new EU Trade Commissioner, Malmström, has also noted this resistance, according to her hearing in Parliament by accession, and I am convinced that she is an important contact for us. My experience is that she was also responsible for justice, security and internal affairs – a very important contact. This is an area in which the government must be absolutely biased and offensive in order to safeguard Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e631	In its statement on key issues in EU cooperation, European Minister Helgesen underlined that one of our greatest future initiatives is the investment we have committed to make by 2020 in the largest research and innovation programme in history, Horizon 2020. Since the 1980s, Norway has been participating in the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development, and since 1994 we have participated fully on the basis of the EEA Agreement. And why do we do that? Our Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, has said that knowledge is the new oil. The government has clearly indicated in both words, numbers and actions that heavy and focused on knowledge. Research and innovation efforts are needed to ensure Norwegian competitiveness and to create jobs in the future as well. Since Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister, we have noticed a shift in research policy. According to NIFU, which has analysed the government's draft budget for 2015, public funding for research has never previously accounted for a higher share of GDP. According to NIFU's analyses, the proposed budget of the Right-Frp government represents a real growth of 4.2 pst. This growth comes the year after a real growth of 4.1 pst. in the 2014 budget. The budget negotiated between the Government Parties and the Left and Christian People's Party has been further strengthened in terms of research. The budgetary agreement also represents a strong commitment to new business, new technology and innovation. Two new seed funds shall be set up, in which the State supports private investors to develop new enterprises, which in many cases have their origins in research and university environments. To succeed in creating future societies and safe Norwegian jobs, we need to be internationally competitive. It also applies to our research and innovation environments to the greatest extent. We are part of Europe, and we can neither guarantee our own competitiveness nor contribute to strengthening sustainable growth in Europe without cooperation. That is why the government is heavily committed to international cooperation. As a participant in European research and innovation cooperation, Norway, together with Europe, can be at the forefront of global knowledge development, address the major global challenges and secure Europe’s industrial leadership. The government has made real priorities in the 2015 government budget by focusing specifically on EU cooperation. In the budget, in line with its own strategy for EU research, the government has proposed to increase the appropriations for actions ensuring Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020 by 115 million. kr, in addition to the large investments in the quota. The long-term plan for research and higher education provides for a further stepping up of such actions towards 2018. Programme cooperation is an important part of our cooperation with the EU and, in addition to research cooperation, I would like to highlight the educational cooperation we have through Erasmus+. Erasmus+ provides opportunities for exchanges for students, apprentices, students and teachers, and international networks and cooperation agreements for schools, universities and colleges. There are also opportunities for young people, employees and trustees in non-governmental organisations and recreational clubs — and in the field of grassroots sport. Partnerships and knowledge alliances also open the doors to cooperation with business. It is also good that the four cooperation parties in Stortinget have found a solution to ensure Norwegian participation in the next phase of the Copernicus programme. It also opens up opportunities for Norwegian high-tech business. The contract potential of Norwegian operators for the period 2014-2020 is well above 1 billion. kr, and Copernicus information will be of key importance for taking informed decisions in climate and environmental policy. The government aims to make Norway one of Europe's most innovative countries. A prerequisite for us to do that is that we deliver on research. One of the main priorities of Norwegian research and innovation policy is internationalisation, and participation in the EU Framework Programmes is therefore a cornerstone of our work on the internationalisation of Norwegian research and innovation. It will help build up scientific quality, provide increased access to both the European and global markets and thus strengthen our competitiveness, provide access to major research networks, infrastructure and mobilization schemes, and it will provide us with a unique venue to strengthen cooperation with actors outside Europe. The government has high ambitions for Norwegian research, and if we are to succeed, we must succeed in our participation in the EU Framework Programme. We need to seize those opportunities, and therefore the government is focusing on the measures that help our business and our research communities to participate fully in European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e659	In its statement, the Council of State said that one of Norway’s biggest future initiatives is the investment we make up to 2020 with the Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. This should provide us with access to «comprehensive resources» and important «world-leading networks». As a member of this program, we need to be an active participant to get the most out of it. A programme seamlessly linked to Horizon 2020 is COSME. The COSME programme was intended to provide Norway with access to key European partners in the internal market. We were to become part of the world's largest business network, the Enterprise Europe Network – until we got a new government and a European minister. The COSME programme should enable us to influence EU industrial policy and provide better framework conditions throughout the European internal market. It is difficult to understand why we should not be involved in this, when we know that the main objectives of the Programme are strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, improved framework conditions and improved access to finance, equity and loan facilities. It shall develop entrepreneurship skills for new entrepreneurs, young people and women. It could possibly be seen as the snow that fell last year, to say this today. But here no new snow has come, and the picture out is a defensive focus on facilitating Norwegian business. We received a clear message from the NHO in the budget hearing. They regretted the government's decision not to participate in COSME this year as well. So over to the budget presented in the autumn. The NHO was also very concerned that it was going in the wrong direction to get out of Copernicus. The right suggested that we should not be involved in this, and it has given clear signals from the business community that this is the wrong direction to go. Finally, I want to say a little bit about the content of that project, why it was so important for us to be part of it. Luckily, we're going to join in. It's not least that the satellites should be on when we have them across our country. It's not like they have enough energy to be on all the time when they're rolling around the world, and it's important to get the information you actually want here. It is also an important research environment built around this initiative. In addition, we want to focus on the primary industries, as was said earlier here, both fish and agriculture, and to be active in the roles, to be on. It has been confirmed by the Council of State, and it is at least supported by the Workers' Party. Here you have to be active, be active and show what you want in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e675	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e678	The European Union is a close neighbour and a large market to which we have access, and indeed our closest. Ensuring contracts and access to this market requires a forward-looking position. That is why it is also so positive that the Council of State, Helgesen and our government, are so active towards the European Union. The government’s strategy for cooperation with the EU in the period 2014–2017 shows that there is a strong correlation between what is important for Norway and what is important for the EU. Not least, we are also affected by the EU’s need for new growth. We need to stand together in Europe to promote growth, employment and innovation. There is considerable economic and social inequality within the EU, and Norway and Norway are also receiving EEA funds. The purpose of the EEA funds is precisely to balance social and economic differences in Europe. The funds include: to combat poverty in Romania. In line with the Storting Decision, parts of the EEA funds are used directly to improve living conditions for poor and weak groups. We support measures that provide the basis for lifting people out of poverty — including in the long term — by facilitating education and work. Romania, which is one of the poorest countries in the EU, is the second largest beneficiary of EEA funds from Norway. Around 9 million people living in the greatest poverty, not least the Roma, who are exposed to discrimination, segregation and social exclusion. In Romania, we're going to spend about 37 million by 2017. the euro on measures for the poor and for the Roma. Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are currently negotiating with the EU on the renewal of the EEA financial instruments, which are the EEA countries’ contribution to economic and social cohesion in Europe. We note that in its alternative budget, the Central Party proposes to cut 2.57 billion. EUR from the EU financial instruments, taking into account that the 2015 allocation is higher than the 2013 allocation. As the Stortinget has been informed, the commitments of the previous government have been negotiated with the European Union, amounting to a total of 1,798 billion. kr, where the programmes will run and the funds will be disbursed until 2017. Since the funds are disbursed according to a programme model, the rate of disbursement will vary considerably from year to year, and 2015 has just been estimated to be the year with the largest payments because the vast majority of programmes are now well running. The centre party's cut is thus a clear breach of the obligations that their own government negotiated with the EU and that the centre party – like all other parties – voted in favour of in the Stortinget. So, as if that's not enough, we see what will happen to such cuts, which are those in Europe that need it the most, for example. The rum people around Bucuresti.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e687	Recently, we have witnessed profound changes in our security environment. Russia's illegal and international law-enforcement actions have led to instability and unforeseeability that we have not seen in Europe for decades. This has changed the security policy situation and challenges the Euro-Atlantic security structures. The EU has shown itself to be a security policy actor in interaction with the United States and NATO in the last year. Security policy is back on the agenda of European countries. Increased cross-border cooperation has been updated with stronger will and capacity for broader policy coordination between central EU countries and with EU cooperation as a framework. A more powerful role for the EU in foreign and security policy is both positive and challenging for Norway. Norway is not part of the EU and therefore not part of the EU’s common foreign and security policy, but we are still contributing to the EU’s crisis management capacity. Norway wants to have good contacts and close cooperation with the EU on security and defence policy issues and in crisis management, both to contribute to EU-led operations and to be able to influence these operations. Norway is one of the countries outside the EU that has tested close cooperation with the EU in the field of defence and security policy. Norway has contributed to several civil and military crisis management operations, has made Norwegian military contributions to the EU battle groups and cooperates with the EU Defence Agency. Norway has contributed on two occasions to the Swedish-led Nordic response force, which is one of the EU response forces. Norway is one of the partner countries that have participated in most European cooperation operations. Outdoor operations contribute to increased safety at home. It is important to further develop a platform for dialogue between NATO and the EU, where Norway is present. Norway cannot stand alone in defending our national resources, so our cooperation agreements with both NATO and the EU will be crucial to our security.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e700	In some areas, international cooperation is more important than in climate policy. We all share common destiny. It's our common challenge, which can only be solved together. All countries have to contribute. Next week, the climate summit of the year begins, the last in a row before the main meeting in Paris next year. Of course, the EU plays an important role. They have many of the large emitters. They have much of the world's capital, and they also have many of the world's progressive politicians. It will not be a good enough climate agreement without the EU having a good climate policy. This year, the European Parliament was able to agree on a target of 40 pst. reduction in CO2 emissions. It's an important step. In the spring, we will take a decision on our objectives in Norway. Of course, they are our own, but we note that our own climate minister in May said that it would not be appropriate for Norway if we were to be less ambitious than the European Union, but that, after the targets came, the Council of State would not be able to use the same words. Is it true that she has been punished by her government colleagues for promising too much? We look forward to exciting discussions about our own goals. Of course, the working party is going to see what our neighbors are doing. Norway should have the ambition to lead the way. The new government promised a more active European policy. It should then be a crossroads of thought that in climate policy we have joined forces with the least progressive countries, the countries with the lowest climate ambitions. It doesn't sound good to Norway. The EU set itself a key target for climate change emissions. In addition, the EU has targets for renewable energy and energy savings, most recently for major protests from Norway. There is no doubt that Norwegian gas is better than coal, but you have to be Minister of Energy from the Progress Party to argue that gas is better for the climate than not to use energy at all. Of course, renewable energy and energy savings are important instruments in climate policy. We believe that the EU has put itself in a sensible line with one main objective, while stressing the importance of these important instruments. Finally, State Council Helgesen spent a lot of time explaining the importance of capture and storage in order for us to reach the climate commitments. I fully agree with that. Here Norway should and can play an important role, but it is the very opposite of Norway when the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has decided to cut 40 million. kr to the test centre in Mongstad. It's not a good contribution. It's on the contrary a big setback.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e714	Our cooperation with Europe is good in several areas. Through education and research programmes, we have a large and wide-ranging cooperation where access to new knowledge and major networks are important reasons for participation. The Progress Party is in favour of closer cooperation with the EU and the European countries in the field of education and research. One of our most comprehensive cooperation programmes with the EU is research cooperation through the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020. Norway is providing significant resources to provide us with access to new knowledge, new technologies and not least an international network. These are important factors for creating own, strong research environments at home. Nevertheless, it is important that we keep up the pressure and get more resources back from the programme to Norway, so that Norwegian research institutes and higher education institutions get more space for action and more funding for research. Quality and European added value govern who is awarded research funding. Seven different key societal challenges have been identified in Horizon 2020, including: marine and maritime research, health research and energy research are being promoted. These are areas where Norway has world-class research environments. We have great opportunities for increased participation in the research programme if we seize the chance. Norway pursues an active European policy in several areas, including: through the Erasmus+ exchange programme. In an internationalised and open market, it is becoming increasingly important for business with varied language skills and knowledge of different cultures. Good educational and research environments are built in a process over time. There's nothing we can decide, but we can bet on the environments to achieve our goals. I am therefore pleased that the government focuses on mechanisms that stimulate participation in the EU Framework Programme, including the STIM-EU Facility. Through the long-term plan for research and higher education, the government has committed itself in its proposal to offensive appropriations for schemes that stimulate participation in international cooperation programmes. There is something I hope everyone in this room can agree on when the long-term plan comes to consideration. Almost every four Norwegian researchers sending applications for funding from the EU Framework Programme for Research are receiving support. Nevertheless, there are too few applicants, so Norway is not able to recover enough funds compared to the resources with which we go in. We must therefore expect the research institute, higher education institutions and researchers to be on the ball and to apply for participation in, among others. The Erasmus+ and Horizon 2020 programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e731	I have some comments on some of the descriptions that have come from the Central Party on the EU and the Norwegian relations with Europe. Well, the centre party is against the EU, but you are also against the EEA and you want to notify it out of the EEA. After all, it is a policy that threatens Norwegian interests, Norwegian business, jobs and well-being. Vital Norwegian interests would be put in jeopardy if the Centre Party got what they wanted, because we cannot opt out of Europe; we are part of Europe, and our wealth and value creation depend entirely on a strong community with Europe and the markets there. The government is responsible for ensuring Norway's best possible framework conditions in the EEA, in liaison with the EU. The government has given us a much more offensive European policy, that is good. Under the Red-Green Government, which was part of the Centre Party, the priority and cooperation with the EU was not what was highest on the agenda. It may be asked whether there was sufficient activity on the Norwegian side towards the EU to safeguard our interests and to influence matters of major importance to Norway. Just handling the process ahead of changes in the legislation on differentiated employer charges is a good example of this. There are no traces of meetings at political level with the EU during the time we had the opportunity to influence the design of the legislation before its adoption. Then we stood still only with the opportunity to influence the interpretation of the legislation and apply for adaptations. Even with regard to the EU's climate and energy programme, the red-green government was invited to make recordings, but did not use the occasion. We have made three rounds of recordings now and are participating in the Green Growth Group, and we have not been working to prevent ambitious climate targets, on the contrary. Even a negative party such as the Centre Party should see that the EEA Agreement and cooperation with the EU mean a great deal to Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian companies. The labour force for which the EEA Agreement opens up is crucial for many enterprises in the district of Norway and provides for the growth of the population of many municipalities around the country. In my home country, I can give many good examples of this: Outer Island of Levanger, with a corner stone enterprise that flourishes, and where the community experiences growth after many years of negative development, and Flatanger and Vikna municipalities, with marine industry, export-oriented activities with great value creation, up to 6 billion. kr — entirely dependent on foreign labour. Norway cannot rely on isolation. We are and become part of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e744	Europe is facing major challenges in the future in both economic development and democratic construction. The economic crisis has hit young people in Europe particularly hard. We have a generation of young people who don't get work where they live. It is serious — especially for young people themselves, but also for society, who lose an important resource that could have helped to build the country. The fact that young people don't get into work is serious because they can lose faith that society can help get them to work. Youths who lose faith in democracy can choose other organizations that fight these values. It is a European commitment to support all good forces that can give young people faith in the future and democratic values. One of the most important EU freedoms is the opportunity to seek work in other countries. This gives those who do not get a job in their country of origin a new opportunity to seek happiness in another country. Several EU citizens have made use of this opportunity and have applied for work in Norway. This has been an important contribution in our country to further developing our welfare. An important area of work has been the health sector. It is difficult to see in retrospect how we should have managed without this support. Last week, in cooperation with the Polish Embassy, a seminar on Polish guest workers was organised in Norway. We have a long tradition of Polish guest workers working in Norway, and they have been an important labour force within, among other things. construction. At the same time, we see that, in some contexts, there have been unprofessional actors who have not taken care of the workers, as they wish in Norway. It's serious. There is a willingness in all parties in Norway to support the development of a serious working life. Therefore, work crime must be combated. Labour inspectorate has an important role to play in this context. The government has been clear that the development of unprofessional work is to be controlled by the means available. An important principle of Norwegian welfare policy is that you should contribute to getting something back. Being in employment also means that you can later receive a pension or benefit if you become unemployed. These rights are acquired over several years in the labour market. It is important that this principle is not eroded and that guest workers are not given any special advantages. At the same time, guest workers often have less access to health services and fewer opportunities to learn Norwegian. Language is important for the prevention of accidents at work and it may be necessary to set stricter language understanding requirements for working in Norway. Norway is dependent on foreign labour in the future to build Norway, but it must not be at the expense of the high standard we have in Norwegian labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e759	Social and political unrest in the EU is increasing. The situation goes from bad to worse. More and more people are asking questions about the consequences when so many capable young people go out of work for so long. This is very serious, and we see the emergence of undemocratic movements. The confidence in the governance of the European Union is weakened by the majority of people. The European Union has a democratic problem. According to the opinion of the Centre Party, this is quite natural when the EU has established an economic union with a single currency, the euro, without a political union. More in this room than the Center Party sees this as a basic system error. Who am I thinking about? Well, I think of the Council of State Helgesen and a member of the European Movement, the representative of Svein Roald Hansen. Why won't they say that? Why would they not say that we must have an open debate on this fundamental system error? The basic system error is one of the causes of the crisis. The EU is in a tight fixation, to use a Western term. One's stuck. The EU is faced with a fundamental choice: either it must become an economic and political union, with its own constitution, where the Member States become states, as in the United States, or it must leave an economic union, with the single currency and the freest movement of persons, capital, services and goods. This is very demanding. With regard to the main driving force of social and political unrest in the EU, there are conditions in the labour market: unemployment that we nordics cannot understand, falling labour income for large occupational groups and increasing uncertainty for fixed-income jobs. This is dangerous. We know that in Europe from experience. The oldest organization in the United Nations is the ILO. It was founded in 1919 and is based on the experience and experience of the time after World War I. The organisation’s head, Guy Ryder, is deeply concerned about the brutalisation of working life in the EU and sees parallels to the political development of the inter-war period. Missing labour income and disadvantaged social benefits are dynamite. The centre party is working to terminate the EEA Agreement and replace it with a trade agreement. We are doing this in order to take care of Norwegian interests and a Norway that is different, which is not seaworthy enough, a Norway that is a country in a world that needs maritime votes, a Norway that can further develop the Norwegian model with a temperance among peoples and a longer-term ecological thinking. This is a development to which the EU is said to be in favour, if the Norwegian people so wish. A fundamental condition of the EEA Agreement is the internal market, with the free movement of persons. This challenges Norwegian employment. We see how evolution is going. We see the drama of the changes, but fortunately there is an increasing debate – a debate that we must welcome, and we hope we get more of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e776	I want to estimate a slightly different tone in this article than in the previous one. I want to go back to what is the real problem and the real danger in Europe at the moment – which is also the subject of the Helgesen Council – the situation after Russia annexed the Crimea Peninsula. The Putin regime undermines the territorial integrity of another sovereign state in military activities and is now active in destabilising eastern Ukraine. We don't need a new cold war, no new wall. Nevertheless, we must deal with the violations of international law in a coordinated and uniform manner and resist the attempts at fragmentation that will put the European community to the test. As a member of the Bureau of the Nordic Council, I and others from the Nordic Council of Riga met yesterday with parliamentarians from the Baltic countries, the Benelux countries, Poland, Hungary, Georgia and Ukraine. There was actually full agreement on what was the most dangerous. Europe is in a more dangerous situation now than ever after the fall of the Wall. After the first movement of borders to a neighbouring country with military power in modern times, a fundamental uncertainty has been created at the same time. Without fixed limits that can be controlled and defended by a country, the very existence of the country is a perilous political entity. The question does not concern just Ukraine, many fears that Georgia and Moldova are next on the list. The Ukrainian crisis is also a European crisis, and it cannot be satisfactorily resolved in any other way than the return of what has been taken with power. But the means to achieve this will not primarily be military. The most important will be the interaction between European countries through coordinated measures and sanctions. The Kremlin's opinions on the counter-work of Bosnia-Herzegovina as candidate country to the EU are not to be misunderstood: «We are against any measure tasks to integrate countries in the EU.» Otherwise, those who were the sender of this message will probably enjoy the previous posts. Apart from the lack of respect for the freedom of a sovereign state to cooperate internationally with whom they wish, without asking others, it also shows that the main issue of the Putin regime is to prevent European cooperation and integration. The time must pass when the successors of the Soviet State consider themselves entitled to enforce what they regard as their sphere of influence. At the same time, a significant part of European solidarity policy towards vulnerable countries bearing an inheritance of planned economy, nepotism, bureaucracy and associated corruption will be to assist them in developing resilient institutions that ensure democracy and the rule of law. There is also a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e798	The free flow of labour is a desired and lost development in the EU/EEA area. The EU enlargement and our accession to the EEA have given Norwegian companies access to critically important competences. The enlargements of the EU in 2004 to include Eastern Europe and Schengen cooperation have resulted in more people applying to Western Europe for a job, including Norway. However, increased labour migration has also led to increased work crime. 50 pst. by prison guards in Norwegian prisons are non-residents. 29 pst. by the ordinary prison members are non-residents. The availability of cheap labour also provides a leeway for criminal actors. Norwegian pay and employment laws are broken. Social security, tax and tax exemptions are part of and undermine the community and challenge Norwegian companies that operate legally. The criminal networks operate across borders, across cultural ties and across ethnicities. Therefore, the fight against organised mobile crime must also take place across borders. If the fight against organised mobile crime is not won, it may develop into a threat to freedom of movement in Europe. EU cooperation in this area has steadily improved and deepened. The reduction of residential intrusions in Oslo from 1 823 in 2008 to – at present. November – 381 outbreaks in 2014, not only due to good work in the Oslo police district, it is also due to a long-term cooperation with the European police force. Schengen cooperation is important for Norway. The new government has put in place an agreement with the Netherlands to transfer Norwegian prisoners to settlement there, in order to avoid the prison queue that this government took over from the red-green ones. Europol and Eurojust are key cooperation institutions for police and prosecution authorities, respectively. We have a 196-km external border to Schengen that we are participating in Frontex cooperation in order to enforce. Just participation in Frontex is important in order to survive illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, which is so inextricably linked to organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e809	The government's treatment of the Patient Rights Directive shows what lies in the European Minister's promise of rapid and effective inclusion of EU legislation and of being a priority country in the development of the internal market. The Government will ensure the rapid inclusion of the Directive which will make health a good in an international market. The Directive states that patients are entitled to health care in all countries covered by the EU internal market. The Minister of Europe claimed that there is a great deal of consistency between what is important for Norway and what is important for the EU, and that Norway is keen for the EU to adopt smart rules. The directive is important for the objective of the free movement of services in the internal market, but it has never been a requirement for Norway to participate in a common European health system. However, the directive is important for the Norwegian Government. I quote from the Sem statement: ‘The Government considers that the production of welfare services is in principle not very different from other services. The use of competition stimulates the creation of value added, better services and efficiency. It is therefore essential that competition become a horizontal element of public activity. Statutory rights to welfare services, combined with free establishment rights and price financing directly to the service provider chosen by the consumer, may contribute to ensuring such development.’;» The Patient Rights Directive is based on the right of the national State to govern and prioritise the ownership of health services. Of course, patients from the high cost part of the relatively richest country in Europe are lucrative if a health travel market develops. The losers are poor people in the poorer countries and patients with chronic diseases where the need for treatment cannot easily be blamed. The system that an attempt to create is fundamentally non-solid. Increased exposure to other countries’ health systems will significantly increase the risk of an increase in the incidence of resistance in Norway. This is a particular current challenge associated with hospital treatment. In addition to providing a significant increase in the risk for the individual patient leaving for treatment purposes at specific resistance sites, the occurrence of resistance could significantly increase in the Norwegian public health service as a result of the continuation or completion of the treatment of patients with resistance. This is not a Central Party scarepropaganda; this is taken from the Directorate-General for Health's consultation referral to the Patient Rights Directive. In fact, the cost of antibiotic resistance in the EU is 1.5 billion. EUR and 25 000 people lose their lives every year because of non-active antibiotics. I call for a thorough public debate on the Patient Rights Directive. It is paradoxical that while there is a great debate in Norway on the introduction of free treatment options, there is a silence about the market right in the field of health that is now taking place through the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e826	State Council Helgesen said in his statement on 20 November: ‘When Europe needs new growth, it is not least because there is a high level of economic and social inequality within the EU. The EEA financial instruments contribute to reducing disparities in Europe. Youth unemployment and weak economic development characterise many of the recipient countries.» These include: Against this background, our government wants to strengthen the commitment to education, research, innovation and entrepreneurship, as the representatives of Vinje and Bjørnstad have addressed in their contributions, and to climate, energy and the environment, as we have heard from others. We equip Norway for the future, and in our cooperation arenas we also help to equip Europe for the future. The budgetary agreement is just in port. One of the most significant areas of activity is the research sector. It has great national significance, but it's also a commitment that is international in its character. If we are to stand up at the top, we must seek cooperation with the best, both in Europe and outside Europe. One of Norway's biggest future initiatives is the investment we make in Horizon 2020, as we have heard. This is where it's invested close to 26 billion. kr in the largest research and innovation programme in history. The total budget is 600 billion. kr over seven years, and it gives us access to comprehensive resources and a world-leading network, which also strengthens our own national research, education and innovation efforts. State Council Helgesen pointed out in his presentation to the Moser couple and their success and the national pride we experienced over the Nobel Prize award. Sharp minds, research networks and access to resources were the basis for their success. Just before the weekend, the Norwegian Research Council gave the green light to 17 new research-driven innovation centres spread across the country – from north to south, from east to west – and in my part of the country, the jubilee stands on the roof of the award of an SFI, the Center for Research-driven Innovation, for Offshore Mechatronics. That means new 200 million. D to research in the country in the coming years and a high level of recognition for skilled professional environments in both academia and industry. There are such initiatives that help to enable our Norwegian research communities to participate in and further develop international research cooperation. In a changing Europe, education and research programmes are an important part of our European policy — yes, perhaps one of the most important. It is through educational and research efforts that we gain new knowledge, competitiveness is strengthened and we build relations between people, institutions and trade unions. What we're doing today, we're gonna live on tomorrow. For this reason, cooperation in education and research is good for Norway and good for Europe. The government's strong commitment in these areas is to secure our common future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e848	A disagreement between the EU and EEA countries as to who is to be competent for the imposition of fines under the EU Regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use, also referred to as the Paediatric Regulation, has led to the suffering of Norwegian research into medicinal products for paediatric use. In addition, Norwegian research and pharmaceutical industry is weakened. Fortunately, Norway has already accepted that ESA has this fine jurisdiction. Such competence has previously been transferred to ESA in the field of competition and aviation without any particular problems. However, we are waiting for Iceland to do the same before the regulation can come into force. We need an answer from Everything. Will Iceland block the implementation of this, or will they also help our countries, our children and our industry to benefit better from research into new medicines? I would encourage the government to be clear to our Icelandic friends on the occasion of the case. The Paediatric Regulation is no threat to our countries. However, it is not to be introduced to the detriment of both the pharmaceutical industry and the development of new medicinal products in Iceland and Norway. The Paediatric Regulation contains both requirements and incentives to ensure better treatment provision for children in the future. At the same time as the pharmaceutical companies are required to conduct studies on children, the conduct of such studies triggers an incentive of six months of extended patent time, because such studies are costly and limited in commercial performance. Norway’s cooperation with the EU in the field of medicinal products is well established and necessary to ensure Norwegian patients have access to new and innovative medicinal products. I expect Norway to participate in and contribute to research and development in the field of medicinal products and that Norway as a national State will take responsibility for stimulating the necessary development of medicinal products. Through participation in clinical studies and due to EU joint authorisation procedures, we have already enjoyed the regulation in Norway, despite delayed implementation. However, firms that develop these medicinal products do not get their legitimate earnings in terms of extended patent time. The delay thus creates major competitive disadvantages for Norwegian research activities and gives the impression of a lack of respect for the importance of intellectual property rights for innovation and industrial development. The purpose of the Regulation is to promote the development and authorisation of medicinal products for paediatric use, to ensure that children are included in the development programme for new medicinal products and to ensure the quality of the information available. Demanding is burdensome for industry, but as a reward, the manufacturer is entitled to a six-month extension of the patent period. I don't understand why one should work against such a system. There is reason to be impatient in this matter. First we waited eight years for the red-green government. Our current government quickly cut through, but now the matter is with our colleagues in Iceland. In this case, it is the research and the interests of children that should be gained. They are the national interests in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e865	I have constantly wondered about this tricked by the servility that uses to overtake debates about the EEA and the EU in this House in Stortinget. But today there's another thing that surprises me a little. It is that many of the interventions, in particular from the main speakers, have the character of being general interventions on foreign policy and security policy rather than being speeches on relevant EU and EEA issues. It is in itself important to discuss foreign and security policy, and a number of the issues raised, we also very much agree, both the concern about increased tension in Europe and the issue of Russia's unsustainable behaviour towards Ukraine. But what we are going to discuss today is, after all, all the EU and EEA issues in question, and it is important that one does not take the focus away from it. It must also be possible to go into some of the points in the statement, and as I see it, it is really a briefing to the Stortinget and indirectly a desire to get a mandate from the Stortinget on a number of issues. I'll just mention a couple of them. The first concerns Article 19 negotiations, where the statement states that the government will ‘seek to take care of consumer interests and aspects that may enhance the diversity of the Norwegian food market’. Not one word – not one word – that one will take care of the interests of the industry that produces and processes food in Norway. Not a word. And if this comes from a government that says it wants a mandate to start a reduction in customs protection, it must be stated from this pulpit that it does not have a majority in favour of it. The government then asks for a mandate in the negotiations with the EU for which it does not have a majority in this Chamber, if we look at both the posts held by the representative of Storberget earlier today, and at what the Christian People's Party and the Left have stood for in this context. But it's no less than eye-catching the way this is referred to in the statement. Another point that is also eye-catching is the relationship with ACER, which is the supranational body on the energy side, where one says that it will not have a significant impact on Norway, because it is only a cross-border infrastructure. Yes, what is important for Norway in terms of energy page and energy export to the EU? It is, of course, cross-border infrastructure. The role of ACER in this context may become very important and affect Norway in a very alarming way. Like the representative, Mr Solhjell, I would like to wish for a Council of States that is more in favour of Norwegian interests and spends less time explaining to Norwegian big business representatives what the EU's interests are.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e878	The 2008 international financial crisis has led to the most serious setback in the European economy since the 1930s. The crisis revealed several gaps in financial market regulation and failures in several national supervisory authorities. The audit was carried out by the Norwegian financial industry, financial regulation and financial supervision. A combination of transparency, regulation, sound banks and government finances and crisis experience from the 1990s led to Norway’s success. At the same time, however, the crisis made the need for international cooperation on regulation also visible for the Norwegian financial industry. Norwegian securities are currently traded on European-wide marketplaces. While in a time of crisis we were able to intervene in the trading of Norwegian securities by regulating Oslo Børs, the turnover can now take place elsewhere, outside the control of the Norwegian supervisory authorities. Norwegian financial corporations are large customers and suppliers of international capital markets. Loans from Norwegian local savings banks may be obtained through other banks in the international deposit market. Norwegian administrators sell savings products to investors across Europe. Thus, a Norwegian financial market can no longer function well without good and continuous access to the international capital market. The financial industry has become too international to isolate financial supervision to Norway alone. Following the financial crisis, the EU created new financial supervision. These have been given the competence in specific cases to take decisions either against the national supervisory authorities of the Member States or against market actors. For several years, the Norwegian authorities have been working to find an EEA adaptation to the new supervisory structure of the EU, and it has been a great advantage for Norway in this work that there is already a structure for close international cooperation in the EEA Agreement. It is within this framework that there has now been an agreement between the EU and EFTA on a model of cooperation on financial supervision. Decisions taken by the EFTA Surveillance Authority will be based on a draft EU financial supervision and it has been important to find a good solution in the interests of the Norwegian financial industry and the Norwegian business community. At present, about 90 legal acts have been pending in Norway, pending a solution for the organisation of international supervisory cooperation. This is legislation applicable to EU countries but not yet incorporated into the EEA Agreement. As a result, there has been a growing gap between the obligations and rights of the EU Member States and the obligations and rights of Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein vis-à-vis the EU Member States and each other. Unless this is put into place, we will lose a homogeneous internal market in the EEA financial services area, and this is particularly important for small countries and to ensure Norwegian companies secure access to the EU market. Then I mentioned Norway and Norwegian 18 times, and I hope it satisfies any need for Norwegian interests to be mentioned in connection with financial markets and regulation. These are international regulations we want, and international regulations that markets need. I am pleased that the government proposes that the matter be dealt with thoroughly in Stortinget, and looks forward to a broader discussion when this comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e893	I would like to thank the Council of State for an interesting and important presentation. The feeling I'm left with after hearing it is a little bit two-sided. I am very pleased that in many areas we are moving towards more cooperation in Europe, but I am also concerned about the dark clouds we see over Hungary and at our outer border. I am a strong supporter of increased European integration in all fields. Increased trade between countries promotes growth and well-being more than any other possible national measure we know today. An integrated European labour market brings with it, of course, challenges that we need to deal with, but the value of being able to work where you want and can do it is of enormous value – both for individual EEA citizens and for the Member States. Personally, I wish Norway were a fully-fledged EU member, but that is not the case yet. In the meantime, it is good to hear that Norway is now a positive co-player with an active European policy in terms of European cooperation and integration within the framework and the work of the agreement we have, among other things. by reducing barriers to trade. Trade and good diplomatic relations are a forward-looking foreign policy. Threats, violence and bullying are the opposite. It also points out to the Council of State in its presentation, and I am pleased that the government is so clear that Russia's behaviour towards Ukraine is prehistoric and unacceptable. Our answer must be that we want cooperation and peace, but never will accept the thug behaviour. Here it is important that we cooperate with the European Union. Those who believed that liberal democracy, based on the principles of the rule of law and free exchange of views, would always be in force in Europe after the Wall fell 25 years ago, have unfortunately been wrong. Even in the heart of Europe, human rights cannot be taken for granted; they must be respected every day. I would like to take the opportunity to commend Helgesen for his very clear feedback to Hungary and the undemocratic turn that has taken place there. Norway is still standing as one of the most obvious voices that stand up to the developments we have seen there, and I know that I am a little proud of that. I hope that the government will follow up this line in the continuation, among other things. by influencing the rest of the EU countries to share our criticism. Although some economies of EU Member States are still in crisis, this statement clearly shows that the European ideals of cooperation and integration are essentially not. The answer to the economic crisis is not to isolate ourselves, but to increase cooperation and integration. Norway should be a driver of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e910	This is an interesting debate to listen to. And when one sits and listens to the debate, one should think that it was at least 70 pst. in Norway, which was for EU membership and is close to possible integration. It's not like that, according to different measurements, but it's maybe that there's a certain distance between those that are here and what's happening out there among people. Several have also made the Central Party aware in the debate. Sylvi Graham took action on our proposal to reduce the EEA quota. To say that the Riksrevision wrote in its report last year that it is uncertain to what extent it can be demonstrated that the Norwegian EEA funds contributed to social and economic cohesion. The effects of the EEA quota are uncertain. It's kind of new. In the European Communication, it is clear that it was mainly the EU that watered down its requirements in the previous round of negotiations on EEA funds. Norway had to join in large increases and to have no or little impact on which EU countries to accept aid. The system of EU/EEA funds is a little transparent. I have tried to find information about the distribution of funds when it applies to land, without luck, and I want to ask the Council of State about this. The EEA funds were used for various, partly curative purposes, and that at a time when we see the great turmoil and distress around us, which requires Norway to increase its efforts on those of us who are really poor. For example, for the period 2009-2014 Poland shall: 50 times as much in EEA funds as Sierra Leone received in Norwegian aid funds between 2009 and the end of 2013. Poland receives more in the EEA funds for the period 2009–2014 than the 80 beneficiary country in total received in Norwegian assistance from 2009 to 2013. The centre party is concerned that we should develop greater equality in Europe. It should also be the European Commission – and pursue a policy that aims to ensure that there are no increasing differences, but greater inter-people bias. But we are also concerned that we should support those who have the least. Thus, the choice is quite easy when choosing between church bells in Budapest, maritime museum in Gdansk and the poorest, which starved every day. The representative Tybring-Gjedde was also in the sign. To it is to say that he built his criticism of my statement on the wrong quote. What I said was that the EU's free movement of capital has not created more jobs or economic growth. That's the good cover to say. The euro and the massive build-up of debt in many EU countries have made it very difficult to correct a sustainable growth in large parts of the euro area. Yes, even in our neighbouring country, Finland, we received quite disturbing messages when the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee was visiting last week. So I mean I have my words in mind, and then the representative Tybring-Gjedde has to listen to what I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e927	The Nordic regions are Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest, and this government is highly committed to value creation in the north. Increased allocations in 2014 and a fantastic bet in 2015, at nearly 3 billion. kr, will provide good opportunities for future growth and development in the northern regions. Norway needs to take care of its interests in the northern regions. Entrepreneurs such as Russia, the United States and China have interests in the region, which they attach increasing weight to. The interest and commitment in the EU are also increasing. Climate change has major and visible consequences in the vulnerable areas. While the ice melts, expectations of increased access to resources, new transport routes and growing industrial activities in the north are being created, and this interest is not without cause. In Norway, the growth in value creation is highest in North Norway. The European Parliament adopted an Arctic resolution in March and the EU Foreign Ministers followed up in May with Council conclusions on the Arctic. This reflects the importance of the northern regions also for the EU, and an Arctic strategy is expected by the end of 2015. We see that the EU is taking on board key areas such as sustainable development, strengthening environmental protection, search and rescue, infrastructure development and indigenous issues. Arctic Councils are recognised as the main body for regional cooperation in the polar region, and here the EU is in principle taken up as an observer. This clearly demonstrates that the EU respects the basic rules of the North and the division of responsibilities between actors. The increased interest of the EU in the northern regions contributes to strengthening Norway’s role as the responsible manager further. The aim must be for Norway to have partners to play on and channels in order to promote its interests whose differences of interest arise in the northern regions. Therefore, it is important for Norway to continue the dialogue with the EU, central Member States and other international actors in order to contribute to increasing understanding of Norwegian interests in the north and to promote knowledge of Norway’s central role as resource and knowledge manager in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e942	I have some comments on what has been going on in the debate. The representative, Lundtigen, pointed out that it is demanding to have a monetary union without a political union. It is a demanding dimension of euro cooperation, but nobody wants political union out there. Other means of balancing this are sought. What is important in this debate, and which has been discussed by many, is that the economic challenges of unemployment, youth unemployment and social unrest created by this are among the most challenging aspects of the situation. In this debate, it is important to bear in mind that economic policy is the responsibility of the countries themselves, not the EU bodies. It is the responsibility of each country. What some people see as a coercion — the guidelines for budget deficits and leverage — is a means of trying to keep the budget discipline which has failed in several countries and which is now causing economic growth to fail. It is not the Commission, the Council of the European Union or the European Parliament's fault that Greek politicians lived on borrowed money. The analysis fails if the government is deprived of that responsibility. The reason why Norway has been doing so well since 1994, is that we have been pursuing a wise economic policy, that we have been pursuing a good policy on gender equality and that we have been pursuing a good family policy. There is nothing in what we have done that we could not have done if we had become an EU member. And we have been blessed with rich natural resources. The EEA Agreement has ensured Norwegian industry access to the main export market on the basis of a common regulatory framework. It will not be able to secure a free trade agreement for the Norwegian industry. This is important in terms of legal certainty. Just look at how the European Union was modelled on salmon exports! It could not be done if fish had been part of the EEA Agreement. Nor would Norwegian citizens have the same opportunities and rights as they now have – not just in the Nordic region, where we have had this since the 1950s, but throughout Europe. I don't understand why the Central Party is concerned with depriving companies of the security that is in competition from a common regulatory framework, and excluding Norwegian citizens from the security that if you work, are a pensioner or study in other European countries, you are treated as that country's citizens. I believe that is a value that the EEA Agreement provides and that no free trade agreement can replace.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e955	There are a lot of themes you could deal with, but I want to pick out some. One is that I want to give full support to those who say that when Norway is going to negotiate with the EU on industrial, interesting issues, such as: Norwegian food industry, a negotiator must be based on Norwegian interests. It's incredibly important, and it's a broad majority in the Biggest that not only expects, but demands that the government does. So I've heard the debate – and it's possible I've missed some posts – but I can't see that there's been someone who's really answered, and at least not the minister, on the challenges given by Board Vegar Solhell in terms of refugees and the situation in the Mediterranean. When we celebrate the fall of the Berlin Wall, new walls are built around Europe. Norway contributes to this. So we're helping to close people both inside and out, and I think that's reason to reflect. The second is that there is a human disaster in the Mediterranean because people are now fleeing. Very many from Syria's flights to North Africa, get in unsafe boats and die at sea. So the action of Italy, Mare Nostrum, to save people is over. Frontex, on which Norway is involved through European cooperation, does not have this function, because it is about border control. We know that this is happening. In what way does the government take international initiatives to ensure that we rescue people who die at sea, as we know, and that Norwegian boats – thank God – occasionally pick up? The second is the Dublin Agreement. It's an agreement to ensure that you stay in the first country you're going to. As a result, very many refugees come to Greece, Italy and Malta, of course. Now these countries say that they will no longer stamp passports for people – they will let them get through – because they cannot take this great responsibility alone when there is no better sharing of responsibilities between the countries under the Dublin Agreement. I can't see that the government has done anything with, or answered anything, these challenges. Will the government take an initiative, reach out to these countries – which are no longer able to cope with this task, neither to raise people at sea nor to accept all the refugees – and renegotiate this, so that we are able to accept more, and share those tasks? After all, the debates are taking place in a light where we consider migration as illegal activity and pure crime. I think we should think about that. Migration is about freedom and about people being able to save their lives and get a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e972	The representative, Elin Rodum Agdestein, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e975	I would like to comment on the great commitment and breadth of the debate here today. I interpret this as a sign of renewed interest in European policy here in Stortinget. The frequent briefing and consultations in the European Committee and these half-yearly presentations are important contributions to increasing knowledge and involvement in European issues and to revitalising the European debate. We need an arena like this to look up from our own domestic sphere and to what is among the strongest precursors for the economic development and security of our country, namely the EU and Europe. We're part of Europe. Whether we are for or against the European Union plays a minor role. The EU is there, and the government takes responsibility for the best possible care of our interests. Many have been involved in security policy. It's a formidable challenge to deal with the dark sides of it. We must stand up for democracy. Only through a strengthened partnership with our friends and allies can we secure the values and freedoms that we have inherited.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e985	A few words about the debate: I think the debate has shown that there is still a great deal of agreement on European policy in this Chamber. In essence, relatively little new has emerged. The opposition of the centre party to the EEA Agreement is not new, nor is it new that the EU is collectively struggling because individual countries, due to irresponsible governance, have previously brought their country’s economy into disrepute. What we rarely hear from these opponents is the impact on Norwegian business and Norwegian working life if we did not benefit from the EU's large internal market. Solhjell was concerned with the large refugee flows into Europe, which was also pointed out by the representative Karin Andersen. I think it's a concern we should share. I also think there is reason to point out that Norway actually takes in most refugees in relation to the population, but it should not mean that we rest on the laurels. We have to keep working on these questions, because there are major tragedies going on. To Rotevatn in Left: Yes, just so it's 100 pst. clear from this pulpit: we are taking a distance from the development of our sister party in Hungary recently, and we did this at the latest during a meeting of the EPP last week. Then Marit Arnstad was a little surprised that the chief spokesman had been concerned with security policy. It is possible that Arnstad did not hear the statement, but it was actually a dam across the entire presentation to the Council of State, that it was one of the most important in the EU area today. As the main speaker, I therefore chose to focus on it, and in addition, ten to twelve speakers from the Right have focused on other areas. I think it is important to repeat that, without any participation in the security policy that the European Union is now really at the forefront of, and that is being pursued, we will not enjoy all other developments in society either. It could be tempting to repeat what I started with: ‘And without certainty there will be little else. No security: no prosperity, no freedom." The words are Jens Stoltenbergs from yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1003	The EU is an economic union with a single currency, not a political union. In the view of the Centre Party, this is a fundamental cause of the crisis in the European Union, and what is strong for me here is: why can't we discuss that fact? Why is there no public interest among EU and EEA members in discussing this fact? The only person who has responded to my invitation is the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who said it was demanding to establish a political union, and no one wanted it out there. No, exactly! That is, of course, the dilemma, that is what is the great festivities: nobody wants the political union, at least Germany, with its constitution, while having an economic union with a single currency. So the representative says that the countries of the sea, the nation states, are responsible for economic policy. Yes, exactly! That's the problem. The national state is responsible for economic policy, where the major framework is defined by the EU system. It was said by the representative Hansen that it was not the Commission's fault that some countries lived on borrowed money. I was thinking about Spain. One should not be particularly interested in the theme to understand that the Spaniards borrowed a lot of money when interest rates went down dramatically and it was cheap to borrow, as a consequence of the economic union and the euro. The referral of the problems in Spain to the Spanish authorities is a serious cover, for it was the economic Union that provided for a change in the framework conditions that led to a new behaviour. Many recognize that an economic union with a single currency cannot be established over time without a political union. But there's no uproar about a political union, and then there's one with the election: should one step back, or should one continue with what was said by several here – including the representative Skutle – is an increasing integration, without one telling what the goal is? I would appeal to bring the debate down here to a more analytical level, so that we can see what is the cause, the background, the conflicts, and then settle those conflicts, so that we can get a more informed debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1012	It may be tempting to point out that Norway’s EEA relationship provides for participation in economic life without full political participation, as a reference to the previous article. But I should like to make a few comments on other points in the debate, first on agencies and supervision and the representative Sven Roald Hansen's wish for a structural solution for all the issues. Given that there are different models of agencies and supervision, given that there are different degrees of renunciation we're talking about, it's not necessarily easy, but there's no doubt that solutions we negotiate on one issue can inspire solutions for other issues. Moreover, I have to say that the solution to the Acer question, which we hope to achieve soon, will not be more than minor in scope, and therefore it does not require a majority of three-quarters, but that does not mean that it is not an important question, just to clarify it to the representative Arnstad. I would also like to follow up on Mr Hansen's emphasis on parliamentary dialogue and the important dialogue that is taking place between the EFTA Parliaments in order to contribute to the further integration of legislative acts. This applies, for example: the question of the paediatric regulation, which has been mentioned. But it also concerns the question of action against the European Parliament. This is probably an area in which, on the Norwegian side, the European Parliament has not been fully involved in the increased importance it has gained in the European Union. I think the Storting has hung out significantly by having an office there, and by doing a good job, but here we can all do more too. I would also like to mention in this context that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly yesterday adopted an opinion on the importance of the TTIP, stressing the possibility of third countries joining. This shows that parliamentarians are following along and following up in different fields. Then to the disaster in the Mediterranean. We do a lot. We consider sending a mission to Italy to assist with Dublin returns, we assess the facility for assistance to countries of origin and transit in particular, we assess support for the EU's new regional development and protection programmes, among others. in the Horn of Africa, we participate in the EU/Africa dialogue on dealing with irregular migration, and we will make a staff contribution to Frontex – among others. Finally, when I hear some representatives attack the free movement of people – among others. The representative Lundteigen – because it creates problems for Norwegian nutrition and working life, calls for the Solund yard in Navarsetes Sogn and Fjordane, the marine industry in Vikna in Arnstads Nord-Trøndelag or the tourism industry in Lundteigen Buskerud to be asked if they agree. They are hardly because free labour immigration serves Norway and Norwegian business very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1029	I can assure the representative Halleraker that I have read the statement, which also has the title of Address on important EU and EEA matters. But part of the speeches in this debate is really more about general foreign or European issues. I agree with the representative Rodum Agdestein that it is good to raise your eyes. So the Central Party likes to discuss both refugees, Iraq – as the Halleraker representative was involved in – security policy in its generality, Russia, the North and other things. But then it is a little sad that the Foreign Minister is not present when the Stortinge discusses this, as a more general foreign debate. There is a striking lack of willingness from part of the debaters to address concrete issues that are at the heart of the discussion, whether energy union, Acer, patient directive, Article 19 or TTIP. These are the things we should have gone deep on today – that is what is important to us. Then I have registered that the Right has had some speech on the views of the Centre Party on Europe and the EU. Obviously, we're part of Europe. We've always been. Of course, Norway has an open economy. It has always had Norway, long before the EEA Agreement was on the table. We're always going to have an open economy to the outside world. The centre party does not agree that the Acer is a bit intrusive. We had hoped that we might gain insight into the considerations and the legal assessments that say it's not a bit intrusive. So we do not agree. There have been examples, for example: in relation to the relationship between Lithuania and Poland – I think it was – and a dispute over a gas pipeline, where ACER enters and settles it on behalf of the two countries. For Norway, such decisions may become quite significant in the years to come, both on the oil and gas side and in the export of electricity. The Council of State did not comment on Article 19 and the negotiations in its closing statement. I would like to underline what the representative Navarsete was also interested in. The negotiations we are now in are not the result of the cheesell case. There have been Article 19 negotiations every two years for the last decade. It must be stated from this pulpit that the government has no mandate from the Storting to accept any reduction in customs protection, or in other words, the government cannot use this debate as a breakstone to build up Norwegian customs protection. There is no coverage for it, either through the posts that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have had here today, or through what the Christian People's Party and the Left have stood for in this Chamber earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1042	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1045	There is a fundamental contrast between the free flow of labour and the Norwegian working life model. When there are many who want to work cheaply in Norway, the Norwegian model of working life is confused. I am pleased that the Council of State says that free movement serves Norway ‘very well’. It shows that the Council of State has a clear opinion on this. I'm glad. I would like to stress that the free movement of labour serves some people in Norway ‘very well’. There are questions about what interests we should take care of. An increasing number of groups are experiencing this fundamental contradiction. The Council of State says ‘we need to make major structural changes’. Several temporary jobs under the Working Environment Act are such a structural change. There'll be more. It will be interesting to look at the debate on structural changes in working life, which is a necessary follow-up to the internal logic of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1054	It's a big and interesting theme that Lundtigen addresses, and it might be interesting to discuss it further, but I'll continue a little bit where I left off, because I don't think I got any good response from the minister. The answer was that one was interested in it, and that perhaps one should contribute more to even denser walls around Europe, while my question was whether one would take the initiative from Norway for an international operation that could replace the Italian Mare Nostrum operation, which is now over, and which was intended to save people who were about to lose their lives in the Mediterranean. That operation has not been replaced. It said nothing about it, and we know that there are thousands of people drowning if you don't establish any other compensation than to expand Frontex. Frontex has a different purpose, Frontex is to protect the borders, and Norway is now involved in building walls around Europe that prevent freedom, preventing people who have only a desire to have a better life and to be able to move. I think it's a paradox, especially for the Right, which, of course, likes to be a freedom party. The second question I asked was that the Dublin agreement cracks in the seams because some countries have a much greater responsibility than others, simply because they are geographically located where they are. And what happens if Dublin cooperation breaks down? At least then, there is no better control over who is coming in and how to distribute asylum seekers between the countries of Europe. In the Council of Europe, this has been a recurring theme for the four years I have been sitting there, and an almost unanimous European Council called for a closer look at the agreement and for a better division of responsibilities between countries, so that it does not happen as Italy says they are doing now, that they do not allow passports to be stamped for asylum seekers – simply because they cannot take care of all seas, when countries such as the United States, for example. Norway sends asylum seekers back to Italy if the Dublin Agreement provides a small opening for it. So this is also about a responsibility Norway has to not throw petrol at the political stake, with anti-immigrant and nationalist, right-wing parties marching in many countries in Europe. We have to share the responsibility that some countries now take a lot more than others, and as they say they won't continue. Does the government do anything about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1067	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1070	Two things: let me stress, as Marit Arnstad did, that we assume that when the government is going to clarify its positions in the current negotiations, Article 19 negotiations, the European Committee is the place where it happens, and not through the presentation or this debate. So to Lundtigen: that's right what Lundtigen says, that low interest rates can be a temptation to raise loans, but it's still the one who takes up the loan, which is responsible for taking up the loan, no one else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1077	Let me first make it clear that with regard to the Article 19 negotiations, it is right that these negotiations under the EEA Agreement should have taken place every two years, but they have actually taken place a few to three times throughout the lifetime of the EEA Agreement. It is also a fact that the EU required new negotiations immediately after the conversion of the customs regime by the previous government, and the previous government accepted this at the EEA Council meeting. We will promote Norwegian interests in the Article 19 negotiations, in the negotiations on free trade in fish and seafood and in the negotiations on EEA funds, and we will promote these Norwegian interests following consultations with the European Parliament's Committee of the Regions. So to the Dublin and Schengen acquis: what is now going on in the Mediterranean is an acute crisis, but a crisis that only has long-term solutions. It is a humanitarian crisis, but it has only political solutions, and it affects national systems, but it also has only European solutions and solutions in European cooperation with neighbouring regions. We believe that burden-sharing is necessary if this is to be dealt with better, because it is quite right, as the representative Andersen says, that the countries bordering the Mediterranean naturally have a heavy load of consumption, but it is not necessarily the ones that end up with most migrants in their countries. Better burden-sharing is important. Then we have to participate in the dialogue on it, which we do at European level, where we have opportunity. In addition, it is not up to the Norwegian side to initiate any alternatives to the Triton operation that the EU has now undertaken. I would like to return to the debates and to the defence representative Mr Navarsete gave in favour of the proposal to remove Mr 2.5 billion. kr from EEA funds – the funds in which the government representative Navarsete himself put in, negotiated with the EU. It will not create an easy start for Norway in negotiations with the EU if we were to start by withdrawing from previous agreements. There would also be something new in Norwegian foreign policy to act in this way towards international agreements and towards international partners, and it would be not least a bad start in the Article 19 negotiations to do something like that. That's why it's irrelevant to us. We stand by international agreements. It is also important to promote Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1088	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1092	I take the floor because the representative Svein Roald Hansen has a statement that cannot be contradicted. He said that there is nothing we have done since 1994 that we could not have done within the EU. It is so alarming that I have to ask the representative if he believes what he says here. Look at e.g. agricultural policy: Would Norway have freedom to pursue a completely different agricultural policy than, for example, one. our neighbouring country Sweden and Finland have done? Look at the fisheries policy, where we are honoured for our resilient management of fish resources, which is an ideal for many other countries in Europe that have not had a corresponding policy. Look at fiscal policy, where we put in powerful instruments at the time of the financial crisis, and Norway, among others. through the tools, economic policy-making has been successful after the financial crisis, which the EU has not done. Everyone sees that what was claimed here is not real.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1101	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1104	I just want to make it clear that today I chose to focus on security policy because security policy is an essential part of the EU’s current involvement, and therefore also for Norway’s relationship with and cooperation with the EU, and it is essential that we follow the EU on these issues. There was also an important over-construction in the presentation of the Council of State — as a basis for all other developments in Europe. Of course, that does not mean that we are not debating other issues here today. We've also done that, by relatively broad reference from the Right-wing Speakers from this pulpit, plus that the State Council Helgesen has answered well on questions and themes that have been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1111	That concludes the debate on the presentation of key EU and EEA issues. The President proposed that the statement be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1127	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1136	2013 was the year when privacy was put on the agenda to the highest extent, both in Norway and elsewhere in the world, cf. Snowden case. Snowden’s revelations about how the U.S. National Security Agency – NSA – works give us a comprehensive picture of the challenges privacy faces right now. Monitoring of network activity both from authorities and from commercial actors is a debated topic, and it is often claimed that increased levels of monitoring may have a ‘cooling effect’. The study of ‘cooling’ by the Data Protection Authority in Norway shows that relatively many people report linking their activities online because they are uncertain about how the data can be used later — younger than older people. When the Data Protection Authority believes that there are clear signs of a development in which citizens limit their opinions as a result of impaired data protection, this is something we need to take seriously. The day people don't dare call to order an hour from the shrink or call an old friend who's in prison, for example, we've lost a significant social value. Then it might be too late to reverse development. While the Snowden case highlights the seriousness, the positive side is that the case has given increased awareness and attention to privacy challenges. Never before have we seen such strong reactions to monitoring measures. Maybe we're at a new intersection. Data protection surveys show that people care about privacy. Nearly half are more concerned with privacy than two to three years ago, and a total of 88 pst. sees good privacy as a prerequisite for a free and democratic society. This provides a good starting point for a debate on Norwegian privacy policy. For the legitimacy of the administration, it is essential to have confidence in the population and that it is not restricted. Data protection refers to an increasing tendency for administrative bodies to be given their own powers to investigate offences and, furthermore, to allow them to share information with the prosecution authority which is outside the criminal proceedings law. The lack of involvement of an objective third party may challenge the legal certainty of the citizens, and this may give a cooling-off effect by preventing the citizens from providing information to the administration. Increased flows of information between different public enterprises may also weaken the confidence of citizens that their personal data are used for the purposes for which they are collected. A majority of the Committee therefore considers that an increased investigative authority should not be granted to agencies other than the police without a foundation in Stortinget. A second majority considers that cooperation and information sharing procedures between public agencies and businesses need to be improved and that it is important that the statutory information and notification requirements are respected. The Committee considers it to be very positive that the Data Protection Authority has given priority to schools, children and young people as areas of activity. According to the supervision, large amounts of information on kindergarten children and students are stored. Information on order, behaviour, behaviour, character and language development are some examples. There are also a number of tools to log which websites students have visited at school or who log in when and for how long students work on specific tasks. There are, of course, good reasons for doing so, but it requires very good procedures, good information security and not least a thoughtful approach to how personal data should be processed in the future. A unanimous committee sees the need for greater competence and awareness, and an overall committee expects the ICT tools used in schools to respect the privacy of children. Finally, a Joint Committee expresses strong concern that investigations into the impact of privacy in legislative processes are often incomplete or completely absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1158	The Data Protection Authority — and the Data Protection Authority — performs very important functions in the protection of personal data, but there is nevertheless a government entity that has limited resources. Of course, supervision – it is in the nature of the case – could only apply to a small fraction, a small pro-mille, of all those handling personal data, so that the general defence of privacy must also take place in the courts by holding back the sector's interest in registering data and sharing it with others. I have noticed that the Data Protection Authority has moved into very central areas, and that they are also a useful resource that can help public administration to build up privacy when they choose solutions. General government is generally a major consumer of all forms of personal data. Of course, they need that legitimately. However, it is also very important in the public sector not to be confronted with purpose slips and interconnected registers that allow us to reverse back into a totalitarian country of registration. I have also noted with pleasure the involvement of the Data Protection Authority in the proposal to narrow the confidentiality of lawyers in tax matters. Similarly, I have noticed that in some cases they have resisted the PST's desire to avoid or go beyond the principles of the Criminal Procedures Act. A lot of the work of the Data Protection Agency is very focused, and I share the priorities. If there were one area I would point to as a possible area where you could go further, it is to engage further in the Article 29 group, where Norway has observer status. The Article 29 Group is made up of national data supervisory authorities and is the adviser to the European Commission. The EU is now facing the introduction of a regulation on privacy to replace the old data protection directive, which is obsolete – I think most people could agree on – after the developments that have taken place in the nearly 20 years that that directive has worked. Unfortunately, Norway does not have a decisive influence in the Article 29 group. We have observer status, but we get to take our lack of formal position again with insightful input. What I could also call on the Data Protection Authority to consider is that, since these communications address the country's legislative assembly, there is also some insight into how – in our work on legislation – we can be aware of privacy issues. It is so much affected in the annual notification that it may be necessary to include a reminder in the investigation instructions that the rules may have privacy aspects. But I also wanted the Data Protection Authority to provide a catalogue of possible changes to the specific laws we have already adopted, in the conventional laws we have, to keep our own specific legislation up to date so that it does not lose pace with the technological developments that are taking place. Rulemaking is a very tough and time-consuming project in a democracy, and technological opportunities run ahead of legislators. So if the Data Protection Authority could also be a resource, preferably through the annual communications to the Stortinget, we could work together even better and even more effectively for effective privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1175	Welcome to Finland, Kåre! That greeting did not come from the Finnish customs authorities, but from Telenor, immediately after I crossed the border. It is also not accidental that Coop will offer me free tonic or margarine when I have been shopping on the cooperative team over time. So what do my Finnish tours or shopping trips have to do with this case? Yes, big brother and more and more of his siblings see me. Then it also has to be said that we ourselves contribute strongly to that they get the opportunity to do so. The evening post's focus on this topic last week opened enough eyes on many, including me, about how easy it is to map the electronic tracks we leave behind in our everyday lives. A short time ago, Apple Watch was launched. It was interesting to see the front page of Time on September 22nd this year with the image of Apple Watch and with the following text: Never offline. Apple Watch is just the beginning. How portable technology will change your life – whether you like it or not. Furthermore, you could read about how easily a demand for new technology can be created that we do not initially need, but that we are convinced by aggressive marketing that we cannot live without. Smart and sophisticated, I'd say, and we're easily tricked as well. Apple Watch and other near-body technology are part of the concept of the Internet of Things, where what we carry communicates with other technological devices. It helps to make data about me and my movements interesting for others, and that in this way you know what we're doing and who we are. And then there's so much data about us that you chased me, you also know what to do before we even know it. Back to Coop and their offer of tonic and margarine. It's just a small example that the information we provide in cyberspace has become a commodity and a billion store for the big ones like Apple, Facebook, Amazon, and not least Google – to name someone. Then we're into the concept of big data. There the data gets a value in itself, but then based on the fact that the value of the data is based on a future use. It goes without saying that those who have control of it do good shopping. So it's said that the American company Acciom has 96 psts. by American households. Thoughtful – yes – but unfortunately part of the reality. In the Data Protection Agency's excellent Big Data report, we read that data that is considered non-sensitive by different methods can produce a sensitive result. The way from not challenging the data protection law to do so can be done by some keystrokes. Then a collection of data from Coop, Google, Facebook, Amazon and others can point back at me. Then it is suddenly very unpleasant, while I have little opportunity to remove my electronic tracks because I don't have one actor to deal with, but many. That this type of data is also interesting for intelligence, police and others, there is no doubt about it. We have to be pretty naive if we think that, for example. the intelligence only uses anonymised data – the Snowden case tells us it is far from the case. Many criticized Snowden for what he did, but that he has opened his eyes to many, there is no doubt about it. If such data are controlled by a few gigantic international actors, Orwell's 1984 is just the baby food. An over-exploited use of Big Data can lead to a gigantic surveillance community. We don't want yours. That's why that's the job, among other things. The data controller does, very important. Our challenge is to get a law that's adapted to a world where data about me and others has become a billion-dollar industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1190	A thorough work has been carried out on the Data Protection Authority and on the subject of its annual reports, for which the case-speaker did well at its inception. These annual reports give us a good overview of the activity in 2013 and the key issues that shaped the work beyond this reporting period. The Progress Party is pleased that, in 2013, the Data Protection Authority has given priority to working on privacy in health and well-being, the justice sector, the public sector, schools, children and young people as well as working life. These are key sectors of society with increasing use of digital aids, digital storage, etc. There are also sectors where information flows between different sectors are often seen, creating new privacy challenges. We note in particular that work on digitisation and modernisation in the health and care sector raises several privacy-related issues, including: in the case of the use of welfare technologies, and it is natural that the Data Protection Authority also closely follows this sector in order to ensure that privacy is adequately preserved. The progress of the game is satisfied that this area is being presented as an important field of the annual report. I think it is positive that the awareness and attention to privacy challenges has been increased in 2013. 2013 was the year when privacy was very much seen on the agenda both in Norway and elsewhere in the world, cf. Edward Snowden-saka as several representatives have mentioned so far in the debate. The balance between the relevant and legal monitoring of the security of the State and its inhabitants must be balanced against the personal freedom of the individual citizen. As part of personal freedom, privacy is very important. Individual's right to privacy and personal integrity must be respected as a fundamental right. I am therefore pleased that the Annual Report has pointed out that the high level of trust that Norwegian citizens have in the administration must be maintained in order for our welfare state to function. One of the requirements for this is good privacy. I would also like to show that the Stortinget in the context of the fight against organised and economic crime, abuse and violence in close relations, the prevention of electoral extremism, etc. has stressed the need for good cooperation and information sharing procedures between public authorities and enterprises. This has gained new momentum in recent months with the war in Syria and volunteers joining the IS service. This is an area where both security and privacy needs to be safeguarded. There will often be a dilemma between the length of the obligation to provide information and the length of the obligation to provide information, and there have been many examples of this. where there is a lack of information on the choice and abuse of children between schools, kindergartens, health sisters, child protection and the police. In doing so, it is important that both legal information and reporting obligations are retained, and that all information shared is recorded and processed in accordance with privacy laws and regulations. I would like to show you that, among other things: Snowden-saka has shown how monitoring can go too far, and I want to stress the importance of privacy considerations. The Progress Party believes it is positive that from 2013 on, the Data Protection Authority has given priority to having schools, children and young people as a bet area. We are very concerned that the Data Protection Authority sees that the distribution of privacy implications in legal processes is often incomplete or, in the worst case, entirely absent. In conclusion, the Committee calls on the government in the form of a comment, where a requested government takes it into account that one can look at the distribution instructions to ensure that privacy is maintained at the beginning of legal proceedings and that there is something that encourages one to take further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1207	The annual report from the Data Protection Authority and the Subject is useful and interesting reading. The digital network is becoming ever closer to us, and we politicians have to make sure that it gets on well and not bad. The notification shows that monitoring network activity by both authorities and commercial operators has become an increasingly debated theme since 2013. More consequences are now being identified that require much political attention and personal care. ICT, however, is a particularly useful tool, which we need to protect in order to develop society further, not least in public activities. Many state that they link their activities online because they are uncertain about how the information can be used later, and the younger ones seem more skeptical than the older ones. The study by the Data Protection Authority shows that citizens limit their opinions in fear of impaired privacy. It's worrying. Users want legal certainty to provide information to the administration or other serious actors. Increased information flows between businesses and community services may impair the confidence of citizens that their personal data are used for the purposes for which they have been collected, unless traffic is legally and practically quality assured. Norwegian citizens have a legitimate claim to this in order to have confidence in the administration. This is actually mentioned in the notification as a prerequisite for the development of the welfare country. Perhaps the key prerequisite for this is good privacy. Data protection must therefore be a key element of all impact assessments for actors responsible for managing information on citizens. It is worrying that the notification mentions examples of privacy consequences not being followed up in all cases, and that personal protection arguments put forward by the hearing bodies are rarely taken as a result of the responsible department. Then it is better to read that the Data Protection Authority has had regular dialogue with both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health and the Directorate of Health on the issues and is working on an investigation manual on the investigation of data protection consequences. The Ministry is now working on the revision of the instructions in 2014 and the revision shall also review the requirements for such impact assessments. A major effort has been made to digitise services in general government. The aim is for public data to be as practical as possible for re-use and value creation. This is in line with the Christian People's Party's objective of modern and well-developed service provision. However, the possible privacy implications of the compilation of several data sets must be taken into account. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Data Protection Authority has a focus on this. The Christian People's Party appreciates the priority given by the Data Protection Authority in 2013 to work on privacy in health and well-being, the justice sector, the public sector, schools, children and young people as well as working life. Both kindergartens, primary and secondary schools process a great deal of information about children and young people. The data are increasingly being processed digitally. Developments are in the direction of digital learning platforms, login systems and processing systems, and the notification points to the importance of data protection from an early stage in their development. It is important that data protection requirements are communicated at all stages, from the departments and counties to the administration of municipalities and county municipalities, even down to the teachers and students themselves. It is important that students are aware of the obligations they have and the rights they have with regard to privacy. It is also important that schools and municipalities have a high level of ordering competence, so that the ICT systems acquired are sufficiently privacy-friendly. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the Data Protection Authority has carried out supervision of school owners in 2013 and looks forward to the Ministry looking into improvement measures. Otherwise, the Data Protection Authority reports that around one in four enquiries from residents and businesses concern the protection of privacy in the workplace. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs heads a working group that looks at monitoring and control in the workplace, and looks forward to a report. Technological developments have led to legal developments and to the level of knowledge of the population. Therefore, one must pay particular attention to the fact that so-called near-body technology will increase in the years to come. It knows movement patterns, health status and habits. This has consequences for privacy. The Christian People's Party believes that the Annual Reports of the National Data Protection Authority and the National Data Protection Agency provide a good overview of the activities in 2013. The Christian People's Party shares the majority's view that, in the context of the fight against organised crime and abuse and in the context of prevention, the Stortinget emphasises that good cooperation and information sharing practices are now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1235	When the Stortinget one year ago dealt with the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Agency for 2012, the Data Storage Directive was at the heart of the debate. The case was then pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Today, we find that we in Norway received outside assistance to prevent a serious breach of privacy. The Data Storage Directive was adopted and incorporated into Norwegian law following strong debate and against the votes of the minority in Stortinget. Luckily, the Court of Justice of the European Union found that central parts of the directive were in breach of EU law, the introduction of the directive also stopped here in the country. We haven't had an equally heated debate on the relationship between privacy considerations and the need to monitor unwanted activity this year, but technological developments continue to make this one of the major and challenging debates in societies governed by traditional democratic values. Commenting on the annual reports of the Department, technological developments have an enormous advantage over the development of legal policy, as well as the general level of knowledge of the population. This underlines the importance of overseeing high technological and legal competences in privacy. I experience the Data Protection Agency being an adult, which we have reason to rejoice over. I also register that the Privacy Department has an increasing number of cases. In the committee position, we address the issue arising from the Legal Association's report on combating organised economic crime through investigation and prosecution cooperation between police and state control agencies. The Legal Association proposes that individual administrative bodies be given the power to investigate and prosecute for financial crime within their own sector. The Data Protection Authority has pointed out that increased flows of information between different establishments which are not in possession of criminal offences may weaken the confidence of citizens that their personal data are not used for purposes other than those for which they have been collected. We have to be extremely careful, so that we do not weaken the general confidence in government. The majority of the Committee, of which the Centre Party is a member, stresses that it is essential that the trust of the administration in the population is not restricted. We therefore stress that an increased investigative authority should not be granted to anyone other than the police without a wholesale charge. I will end by referring to the last comment in the committee's position. We are concerned that the Data Protection Authority is showing that investigations of data protection consequences are often incomplete or even completely absent in legal processes. I assume that the government will follow up this concern by clarifying the investigation instructions, so that privacy will be given the place it should have in all legal processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1254	Privacy is important. Last year we discussed it from a big and important point of view. I have to say that I am concerned about privacy when the government did not realize what a major and serious interference the data storage directive would be in privacy, but I was in favour of us implementing it, and that – thank God – it was stopped on a formal basis in the EU. But the fact that you don't have the courage to see it and stop it shows me that maybe we're a little bit naive and easy-to-read -- there were some people who used the term here before me -- in Norway. The Technology Council in Norway has conducted a survey, a population survey — it has been carried out in many European countries — on how people perceive this with security technologies and privacy. This survey has many useful findings, but it shows that Norway is less concerned about monitoring than many other European countries, and that it is willing to accept more before it is seen to break with important principles. It may be in the light of the fact that the government chose to say yes to the Data Storage Directive last year, but did not implement it because it was rocked by the EU. But that means I feel like the Guard isn't up. When I read the budget for the following year, and I read this annual report, from 2013, I see that the budget is actually at exactly the same level for the Data Protection Agency now as it was in 2013. Unfortunately, this does not indicate a great deal of effort or that all the concerns you express have any concrete results in the allocation and strengthening of the apparatus that will help us with this very difficult and technically difficult field. The privacy was threatened before even when documents were on paper, to say it like that. It's not like this is something that has arisen with new technology, it's probably true. But the fact that the new technology poses greater privacy challenges than we had before is enough to be a reality. We have recently had a big discussion about it related to health records and the possibility of going into them and whether or not you set tracks. It is said that the legislation is quite good, but the problem is that it is not checked that privacy is not broken by the technique you have now applied. That means that part of what we're doing, some of what we're adopting here, and some of what's government policy, does not work in practice if we don't have the control mechanisms that make if privacy is broken, for example. by someone going in and looking at a patient record that they were not supposed to be looking at, it is possible to verify that they have actually done so. This means that there is quite a lot to do in order for this system not to break important privacy considerations. The People's Council, which was given under the Spring 2014 Technology Council's study, estimates that people want more information on how to monitor and collect information, the possibility of transparency in the stored information and transparency of those who have this collection of what they are doing with it. The creation of an independent control body – as we have in Norway – and international legislation, as well as more education and training on the theme at school, were also among the main recommendations given by people. People are positive and open to new technology, but I don't think most people have any chance of having an overview of what that really means. That is why I think there is a great need to strengthen the Data Protection Agency rather than what the government is proposing, namely that the Data Protection Authority is in principle weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1265	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for good reflections and input into this important matter, although I must point out to the representative Karin Andersen that the government also participated in her own party, was behind the Data Storage Directive. Privacy is important, and I am glad that Stortinget is taking the time to discuss the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority. Privacy is something that concerns us all, and it is an important value to circle an open and free society. Personal data are processed in almost all sectors and activities. It is important that personal data is collected and processed in a way that gives us confidence that they are not misused. We live in a country where citizens have confidence in the authorities. However, trust is a delicate matter. It may take years to build the desired trust, but one event may be enough to tear it down. We have to respect that this is a hairy balance, and that therefore it is important not to go wrong. In 2013, the Data Protection Authority has, among other things, priority work with school, children and young people. I share the Committee's view that this is the right area to put the search light on for the Data Protection Authority. Today, children and young people are actively using new technologies and new forms of communication. This may be beneficial for learning and development, but it also makes students vulnerable to privacy violations. It is therefore important that the level of data protection competence is maximum, both in young people themselves, in adults and in those responsible for young people. Data supervision has been carried out in several kindergartens and schools during the reporting year. These inspections show that, in the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, there are challenges to work on internal control and information security in the sector. Data protection will therefore actively cooperate with the school and kindergarten sectors to do something about this. They propose inter alia: sector actors are bringing together to establish common guidelines for the use and storage of personal data. This will, hopefully, also help municipalities and county councils to develop increased ordering skills for ICT tools used in schools and kindergartens. I think it is a good idea to develop guidelines on privacy in the school and kindergarten sectors. Another important measure for better privacy in schools and kindergartens is to increase the competence of those who may have the most personal data about children, namely teachers. In cooperation with ICT centres in education and other relevant contributors, different measures are being considered to increase the interest and awareness of the privacy of teachers. As the Committee also notes in its attitude to the notification, it is worrying that privacy is not adequately addressed in legislative processes. Good quality assurance mechanisms are important to ensure a sound basis for decision-making. And good decision-making is crucial to implementing the policy that governments want to pursue. This applies in all sectors and disciplines. In order to achieve the objective of integrated privacy in all sectors, it is important that the Data Protection Authority contributes to law and investigation work at an early stage. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is now revising the Investigation Instructions. A revision of the Ministry’s own guide on the assessment of the impact of data protection is also planned. This is a supplement to the Investigation Guide. I note that the Committee is pleased with the work of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer in 2013, and I agree with the Committee that these two bodies are doing an important job. Like the Committee, I believe that the data protection authorities give priority to the right areas and that they work constructively on issues. This is important, because the work of data protection authorities in the next few years will increase the relevance and importance of all of us – and I trust that they will continue to be forward-looking and raise important and correct issues for discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1290	An overall committee is very concerned about the fact that the investigation of privacy implications is often completely absent in legislative processes, and an overall committee expects the government to follow this up. I take it for granted that the government also shares our concern, and wonder how the Council of State will follow up on this in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1295	I explained that in my article. We are now working out the new investigation manual. In addition, my ministry is also working to review and assess a separate data protection impact assessment guide. So we're following up this important question both through the assessment we're now making of the Investigation Guide and the guide we're going to work out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1300	Now everyone says that they want a strengthened privacy and a strengthened work with regard to what the Data Protection Authority is responsible for. The Council of State now says that he will start a work with better guidance, and I am pleased about that. But how does the Council of State think that the Data Protection Authority should be able to carry out far more complex tasks in the future, when the budget of the Data Protection Authority is not strengthened, but weakened in the future? Are there any tasks that the Data Protection Authority should not do in the future, as they have done today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1305	It is not right that the budget of the Data Protection Authority should be weakened. I have great confidence that the Data Protection Authority will be able to carry out the tasks they will have within the financial framework they have. We have very competent data supervision, and they carry out their tasks in a very satisfactory way. So I trust that they can do that within the financial framework they have. I agree that the Data Protection Agency has important challenges in the coming years. The representative, Karin Andersen, said something wise in his post: it is not that privacy is necessarily more challenging because we digitise services – even paper has its privacy challenges. But in that work, it's very important that we build up privacy from the start, and it has a high priority both in the Data Protection Agency, in diffi and for everyone else who works in digitising important services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1312	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1317	We'll get back to the last time we're going to discuss the budget, but it's a reality that the budget is now at the same level as it was in 2013. And to put it this way, the more expensive you get as the years go, the more you actually kiss. The reason I took the floor was that the Council of State said that SV had submitted to Stortinget that the Data Storage Directive should be accepted. It's directly wrong. Both the SV and the Central Party took hers in government on that question. There were two parties – only two parties – in Stortinget which voted in favour of the Data Storage Directive. It was the Right, and it was the Workers' Party. Even the current Minister of Justice made a glittering contribution to the data storage directive that I have quoted from many times, and he was quite right. This was a very attack on privacy. It did not help against crime, and this led to Norway having to put in place many very expensive schemes, which were simply wasted. And you would take only the little villains – the big ones would miss. It makes me worried when, after the government change, one of the parties that opposed this, and that had all the good arguments to nevertheless introduce it, went on with it and didn't stop it. This means that there is reason to have the ‘Guard’ up from the Biggest side, too, when such themes are on the road, because it is very easy to have many good arguments as to why, for example, you are doing so. shall exchange personal data. There are many good arguments to be put forward, but the question is whether the sum of the data protection is ensured, as is the case, whether the purpose is in fact good enough, or whether it can be achieved in other ways. In many cases it can, especially when you bring up some of these issues about violence and assault, and it's very serious. There is now a notification obligation. This is a reporting obligation, for example: to teachers, to those who work in kindergarten, or to many others who get away with such matters. It's not about exchanging information, but it's about a very concrete obligation to report from, so that you can avert and stop abuse and violence against children. It's made clear in the law. I see that it is used as an argument even to relax on privacy. I can't see there's any reason for that, but you have to say very clearly that the reporting obligation is there. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1326	I am not going to extend the debate, but when the representative Andersen pointed out that one party has turned around when it comes to the Data Storage Directive, I registered that she was looking at me. I can only conclude that the Progress Party has not reversed the vision of the Data Storage Directive at all, but I also remind you that this matter is no longer relevant, all the time it will not be implemented by legislation. It cannot be undisputed when there is a claim that the Progress Party has turned around. Then it must be nice for the current Minister of Justice and the former Trustee that a flaming post he has kept has been quoted at the Annual Report for 2013 and also last year. That article still represents the view of the Progress Party on an out-of-date matter, so Andersen's representative can rest assured that the Progress Party is still stuck to the vision we have had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1333	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1347	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1356	It includes proposals for changes to the system of citizens’ initiatives, changes to the auditor’s professional secrecy obligations and the basis for deferred transparency in interim audit reports. The Committee endorses the proposal to clarify that the issue of the rejection of citizens' initiatives must be addressed by the local council rather than by the administration. The right of initiative is an important democratic right that makes citizens more active and involved in decision-making processes. The right to propose treatment in local governments or in the county may contribute to a better dialogue between elected representatives and voters during the period between elections and to promote the interest in the decisions and processes of local government or county councils. There's a lot of mobilization around single things locally. With the right of initiative, a contribution can be made to channel this involvement into the political system. The Committee also agrees that «inhabitants’ proposals» are a better term than «inhabitants’ and that the new term could provide a broader and better understanding of the implications of the scheme. With regard to the professional secrecy of the auditor, a single committee endorses the proposal to make the general rules on professional secrecy applicable to auditing under the Local Government Act. The obligation of professional secrecy shall include information which requires protection, but shall not go beyond what is necessary in substance and in substance. The Administrative Act has a balanced balance between data required for protection and data not required for protection. Furthermore, the rules of the Administrative Act are well known and incorporated into the administration. The Committee therefore considers the amendment to be a simplification of the legislation relating to the duty of professional secrecy of the auditor. As regards the government's proposal for deferred transparency under the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Public Prosecutor's Act, for preliminary municipal audit reports and documents in state supervision cases, the Committee is divided. The Committee agrees that the principle of transparency is a fundamental democratic principle that contributes to the strengthening and further development of democracy and that an open and free debate on society is fundamental to a functioning democracy. Furthermore, a Joint Committee considers that transparency allows the public to influence administrative decision-making processes, by making representations, comments and identifying any errors and shortcomings. However, a majority of the Committee supports the establishment of a basis for deferred transparency in municipal audit reports, in order to strengthen the self-control of municipalities, while a minority believe that this would be contrary to the public disclosure intention. The majority believe that transparency in unfinished audit reports contributes to undocumented claims and information creating public discussions based on erroneous assumptions. However, the minority, of which the undersigned is part, fears that deferred transparency limits the possibility for the general public to influence important administrative decision-making processes. Furthermore, the minority considers that it would be natural to await the evaluation of the Public Health Act, as requested by the Stortinget in its Decision of 4 May 2006, with the aim of clarifying whether the intention of the Public Health Act to increase transparency is fulfilled. However, the majority would like to see a system of deferred transparency in preliminary audit reports available to the National Audit Office for its preliminary reports on the Stortinget. Finally, it is noted that the Committee has made some linguistic changes to the government's other legislative drafts, but which are not intended to have any substantive significance. In the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 39a, the «communities of the county» has been changed to the «communities of the county» and in the last sentence the «communities of the county» has been changed to «communities of the county». This creates more consistency in the determination. In the amendment relating to the Public Service Act, the word ‘from’ in the last sentence of the second paragraph of Section 5 has been changed to ‘from’. Finally, I would like to point out that the Left is opposed to the proposal for the second paragraph of Section 5 of II and will therefore vote against it and will maintain the provision as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1379	This is a good opportunity to do something that we probably do too rarely, namely to hit a blow for the municipal auditor, a often underestimated gunman – I would say – in the process of renewing, simplifying and improving an important part of the public sector, in this case the municipal sector. It is also important that the municipal audit and the municipalities have good working conditions and the ability to do an important job. The municipal audit may have made it clear – as many people still believe – that the municipal audit is primarily responsible for accounting audits: checking the attachment and whether the money is kept in the correct account. There's a lot more and a lot more of a modern municipal audit run with it. Administrative audit means safeguarding the interests of citizens: ensuring that the performance of services by the municipality is of the right quality — it may be a type of administrative audit — ensuring that laws and regulations are complied with, that fundamental rights for citizens are respected, that municipal resources are used correctly, that tax payments are used properly, that decisions taken by the local council are followed up, etc. These are complex tasks that require a high level of competence and are important for the internal control of the municipality. It is also important to state that the municipal audit is not part of the councillor's apparatus. The municipal audit is an independent apparatus, which is sorted by the local government. The municipal audit is not instructed by the councillor, but operates with its own mandate and with a high degree of freedom, according to its own laws and regulations, of course. This is because, in parallel with the National Audit Office, the municipal audit has to go into the sea, look after officials and servants and see if our service providers not only do their job, but also if they have the right conditions to do it. There are hundreds of thousands of people who work every day in the municipal sector, who – if you say it like that – are exposed to, or who have the joy of being subjected to, the administrative audit of our municipal audits around the country. The question is: this work is formalised, of course, in the form of audit reports — initially in the form of preliminary audit reports. Often, these interim audit reports are preliminary for good reason – they are not completed. You have a unfinished audit report that the municipal audit sends to the councillor and says, "Is this right? Can the counselor stand for this? Have we understood the facts in the matter correctly? Does the councillor and the administration have any other comments on that municipal audit point out? Then you get the answer back before you issue a final audit report, which may contain the right facts, which describes the facts correctly, and which has taken into account the corrections that have been made in the dialogue with the councillor. This is a principle that I perceive that the minority in particular have an understanding of – as long as we talk about state employees and states. With regard to the activities of the National Audit Office relating to twisting the corresponding audit against state budgets, I believe that the rapporteur of the case and another minority are hot followers of it. I can't see that there's a reason to have that kind of exclusive and specific audit protection for state employees and states. In principle, these are exactly the same interests as those of the municipal audit, on behalf of the citizens of the municipality. In fact, the Riksrevision may have a different role constitutionally, but, in principle, the solution found for the Riksrevision is against the revision of state budgets, a reasonable balance with regard to the publication of preliminary audit reports while they are still under work. I would like to emphasise: the preliminary audit reports will also be public, but they will be public after the final audit report is completed. In so far as the public is also given the opportunity to see whether corrections and corrections have been made along the way. It is a sensible balance the majority has found in this matter, which means that we naturally support the proposal of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1398	I want to start by thanking the case spokesman for a very good and balanced review of this matter. It's a three-part case where one makes three changes for the municipalities, and everything is done to simplify the legislation and create a simpler everyday life not only for most people, but also for the municipalities. The first two proposals are a joint committee behind them. The fact that one changes the 'builder initiative' to more correctly 'builder proposals' is a common committee behind it. It is positive that an emphasis is placed on the importance of this mechanism in the municipal law, that other than municipal government representatives and the councillor can bring matters before the local government and take things up. Even if the scheme has not been so much used, it is important to have that valve, that it is possible for an engagement from someone other than those who can normally take the word and suggest things, that it is possible for ordinary people to travel. It is also very good that one emphasises that it is the local authority itself that may reject such types of initiative. Today it is possible for the local government to delegate the decision. By modifying the law and writing to the local government itself, you underline that it is not a delegation. The local government itself must be responsible for the decisions it takes, and that is the right principle when the initiative comes from the population. Then it was interesting that the representative Jensen wanted to strike a blow for the municipal auditor from the spokesperson in Stortinget, and I must agree with him that it is unlikely important that we recognise the local authorities' ability to exercise self-control, with regard to both the Council's internal control and that the local authority's control functions through control selection and municipal auditors are recognised. We know that the state is very good at overseeing the municipal sector, and then it is important that we can also see that dimension in it with control, that we should recognise self-control and the ability to cultivate it, more than that one should exercise an extensive degree of supervisory authority. So it's positive that we make some changes there. The proposal on auditor's obligations is also a joint committee which is behind it, that it be equated with what is laid down in the law, and does not have a stricter practice. So come to where the committee has a slightly different view. I thought the case spokesperson, even though he belongs to the minority, gave a balanced and good description of the various concerns. The Government Party - the Advance Party and the Right - belong to a large number of people who have different concerns. We see that there may be arguments for both, we see that it may be important to have a running debate when the matter is up to date, but we have found that the best thing for the outcome here is that we go to change the practice and law so that one can postpone the transparency of preliminary reports. This means that one does not remove the transparency, but one exposes it. As the representative Jensen said, a few will be fully transparent afterwards, but due to having a debate based on the facts, one should allow the adviser to comment on what is in the preliminary report, before the final report is carried out. There must be full openness about that temptation, but then in retrospect. So it's just about postponing transparency, not limiting transparency, and we feel that it's being balanced in a good way, and that this will be good and a good measure to strengthen the self-control that is important for the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1413	First of all, a few words on the matter of the citizens’ initiative: the concept of ‘inhabitants’, which is now proposed as a designation, is a better and more understandable description of the scheme. The Christian People’s Party therefore gives its full support to this ‘name change’. So far, it has not been clear in the municipal law who in the municipality has had the authority to decide whether such an initiative or proposal is within the area in which the local council has to deal with. It is positive that this is now being legally clarified. The Christian People's Party supports such questions to be resolved by the local government or county council and could not be delegated to a selection or to the municipal administration. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, also supports the proposed change in the obligation of professional secrecy of local authorities. The same legislation now applies to municipal auditors as is the case for public employees in general. Professional secrecy is important in order to provide information that needs to be protected for various reasons, such as: personal and business secrets. The provisions of the Administrative Act ensure this in a good way. The last issue addressed in the proposal is the question of whether interim audit reports from the municipal audit can be exempted from public disclosure. The Christian People's Party is in this matter with the majority. An interim report does not always give a correct picture of a matter. Conclusions and the case as such may give a different picture and impression in the final report. In some cases, other aspects of the case have also come to light. It is unfortunate if there is a lot of debate about issues and issues that later turn out to be false claims and conclusions. It is rare for corrections to be given the same attention in the media and in the general public. Therefore, the general public may be left with the erroneous impression that critical circumstances have been identified without this proving to be the case. One of the objectives of the municipal audit reports is to contribute to learning so that errors and shortcomings can be corrected and procedures and forms of work improved. Excited debates about interim reports containing errors may weaken the learning value. The Christian People's Party believes otherwise that the principle of disclosure is a fundamental and important democratic principle. However, the amendment of the law does not mean that the interim report is exempted from disclosure but that the publication is deferred until the final report is clear. This is a similar scheme that also applies to the National Audit Office’s reports to the Stortinget, a change that was adopted in 2004. The Christian People's Party supports the fact that this is now also the arrangement for the municipal audit reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1430	We deal with two changes in the municipal law and one in the public health law. The two amendments to the municipal law are fully in agreement. As regards the third, which is about deferred transparency in preliminary audit reports, there are shared opinions on what should be the conclusion. The central party is pleased that there is full agreement in the committee that it is the local government itself or the county body itself that is to decide on proposals made by the inhabitants by means of the legislation on citizens’ proposals. Citizens shall be confident that proposals made are evaluated by policy-makers and that these are not issues that can be delegated to the administration. We also agree that the provisions on auditor's professional secrecy under the municipal law and the administrative law should be harmonised and that the rules of the administrative law should lead. I note that there have been objections from some hearing bodies, but I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus that confidentiality rules should only be limited to particularly sensitive data protection issues. Then we disagree on the third proposal for amendments. This concerns Section 5 of the Public Health Act and issues of deferred transparency in preliminary municipal audit reports. The consultation proposal on the current changes was sent from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in 2012, under the red-green government. So two governments are behind the proposals. It is therefore not unnatural that there is a broad majority in the Committee in favour of the government’s proposals, but the SV’s and Left’s representatives separate layers by the majority with regard to the deferred transparency of audit reports. My opinion and the opinion of the Centre is that the issue of deferred transparency in preliminary audit reports is about ensuring that the debate on government errors and shortcomings takes place on the most factual basis possible, and is not based on speculation. I record that the press organisations believe it strengthens the public debate when the press can investigate matters in parallel with the control bodies. Yeah, they might be right about that. But the question we have to ask ourselves is whether the public debate is getting better from the fact that the press may be basing its work on public documents that prove to be wrong because the facts on which they work are not completed. In the comments from the Left and the SV, it is claimed that it is wrong to compare the public information exceptions relating to the Riksaudition reports, with the clarifications we are now discussing for the public about preliminary municipal audit reports. Well, it doesn't have to be completely comparable. Nevertheless, I understand an argument that allows for different principles of transparency in documents during work in the municipalities than what we think is reasonable to open up in government administration. I react to such discrimination. The centre party is for as much openness as possible. Therefore, I would like to clarify what is in the committee position: the proposal for deferred transparency does not mean that information is withheld. Once the final audit reports have been received, the interim reports will also be public if they do not affect matters covered by the Data Protection Act. At this stage in the proceedings, media redrafting and debate on the reports may be based on facts and not on information that subsequently turns out to be misleading or false, giving an incorrect impression of the nature of the case. I believe that the public debate has served this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1451	SV will vote in favour of the suspension, with the exception of the amendments proposed in Section 5 of the Public Health Act. I'll argue for that a little bit. The rapporteur presented those points of view in his statement, and I very much agree with what the rapporteur said. First, the fact that there is a difference between what the Riksrevision does, and what the municipal audit does, because what the Riksrevision does, is related to constitutional control. It has a slightly different value than the municipal audit. At least the size has asked for an evaluation of the disclosure law. The question is, will the government do that? I think that's what's needed. The size has unanimously thought that there is a need for it, and in such a context it would be useful to be able to take a position on this matter in a wider scope and with a broader investigation than we have now seen. It is argued that it is best to have worked through the whole matter before the media and the press get hold of it. That is what this matter is really about. Sometimes you can spin things on unfinished documents. But that the preliminary reports are completely solved claims, or taken completely out of the air, I can't join. I assume that what the local authorities come up with, and start working on, is based on concrete questions they have, related to very specific issues, and that it's not about the spread of rumors – as it might sound like it does. I also believe that the role of the public's eyes and ears, which the media have, is underestimated in this matter. It can be awfully uncomfortable for those standing in the middle of it. Sometimes wrong things also appear as it is difficult to correct — yes, it is quite right too — but it is extremely important that the public have access to as much information as possible at all times. I think that also prevents some mistakes from happening. Finally, we have had a hearing on this matter. The Norwegian Editorial Association and the Journalist team, among other things, voted against. One of the things that they point out to us, which is interesting in this case, is that the Ministry of Justice, which has the administrative responsibility for the Public Service Act, and also represents the legal expert, has clearly opposed the proposal that is now being presented. Then it is also necessary to point out – I believe – that the Ministry of Justice's opinion is a little selectively expressed in the proposition. The proposal of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has failed to mention, for example: the ministry has pointed out the serious deficiency that the hearing note does not address the fact that transparency may prevent the final report from containing errors. One of the mechanisms of transparency in such reports is that this type of transparency can also provide necessary and comprehensive information on the matter and that the final reports are improved. We see that there are different aspects to be taken care of in this case, but we believe that the arguments put forward to amend the law are not strong enough in relation to those who oppose it, and in particular because we believe that this issue should have been resolved by a complete review of the Public Health Act, where several aspects of the case had been discussed more seriously, and that the professional arguments of the Ministry of Justice had also been discussed and discussed more in the proposal submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1466	It was also a good contribution by the representative Andersen. There are differences between just national audit and municipal audit, and not as the representative from the Right is trying to argue for – these are just the differences. And not least I have to say that I miss the eagerness to adjust this when the Ministry of Justice has also pointed it out so strongly. As the representative of Andersen points out, transparency can definitely help to counteract defects in the final product. I don't understand what the problem is then – when we have transparency afterwards, we have no opportunity to adjust along the way. A good democracy just requires that we dry to have openness. I accept that there are some parties here that believe that there is not so much transparency and the disclosure law, which the Left will never join.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1475	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1489	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1498	By 2020, we will be 700,000 inhabitants in Oslo. Four years later it is likely that Bergen rounds 300,000 inhabitants, Trondheim rounds 200,000 inhabitants, Stavanger rounds 145,000 inhabitants, Kristiansand rounds 100,000 inhabitants, and Tromsø rounds 90,000 inhabitants. Population growth is a challenge, but it is also an opportunity. Population growth means that cities and growth municipalities need to build more, greener and smarter. Therefore, housing, land-use planning, infrastructure and the development of public transport must be seen together. I would like to thank the proposers for addressing important issues. We support the proposal's intention to build greener and smarter. That is precisely why I am pleased to say that the government is already in the process of implementing the measures requested in this respect. I am thinking in particular of the proposals No. 1 to 4. With regard to the wish of the proposers to tighten up the national policy provision for purchasing centres, I would warn against restrictions that narrow down and limit local freedom of action and self-government. The government has stopped working on a new national policy provision for purchasing centres. The current 2008 provision is now for evaluation. At the same time, efforts are being made to shed light on how cities and agglomerations can develop new, attractive rooms. This knowledge will be shared with municipalities and counties, so that they are able to make good local decisions based on good expertise. This government is working for and stimulating the build-up of collective nodes. The government has, among other things: done so through urban environmental agreements and 50 pst hedges. State funding of major collective actions. Urban environment agreements are intended to contribute to a national commitment to public transport and infrastructure, which is very long-term from both cities and municipalities. When Tromsø makes a green transport stage in the urban area, Stavanger creates its own bus routes, and Kristiansand makes bicycle expressways between the center and the major urban areas, it is good for both the climate and the inhabitants, who get better health through activity and the living environment. Urban environment agreements will set land use and hub requirements, and urban environment agreements will also be key areas when the government presents a new national transport plan in 2017. The climate agreement, which focuses on taking the growth of urban passenger transport through public transport, bicycles and corridors, will underpin urban environmental agreements. Furthermore, the government has already adopted new state plan guidelines, which will ensure the coordination of which the proposers are also involved. The new guidelines focus on congestion and land use around the collective nodes. Furthermore, emphasis is placed on the organisation of adequate housing in press areas with good regional solutions across local borders. Population growth requires forward-looking, proactive and ambitious municipalities, but also an ambitious government. It is a major challenge to ensure that the growth of municipalities meets with sustainable and forward-looking solutions. Responses are to ensure greener, more competitive and innovative municipalities through public transport, urban planning and land use. That work has started this government too fully, and I look forward to constantly coming back to this pulpit to help adopt good policies for both cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1522	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Christian People's Party, who have made many good proposals, who are bringing an important debate into the Stortinge, and also thanking the rapporteur, who has handled the matter well in the Committee. More and more people are choosing to live all or part of their lives in the big cities. The working party is therefore committed to developing the unique opportunities available in our major urban areas. Growth in metropolitan areas offers opportunities that benefit the whole country. At the same time, there are also challenges related to growth. It is particularly important to balance growth and environmental challenges. Climate challenges and population growth in and around major cities are among our biggest challenges – we know that the world’s cities represent 70 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions. Then it is also obvious that our cities are central to the solution of the climate crisis. The strong population growth we are now going to see will further increase transport demand. We therefore need to facilitate the take-up of passenger transport growth in major cities by public transport, bicycles and corridors. If we are to do this, we must seal up central urban areas and concentrate housing and jobs at the collective nodes. The working party believes that time is overdue to use stronger instruments to achieve more environmentally friendly growth in our big cities. It's about having to escalate the fight against climate change, but it's also about people living in cities having to get their everyday lives to jump. It has to be easier to travel collectively to and from work and elsewhere, and it has to be safer to go and ride. Collective solutions are the main tool for expanding the new cities. It creates a good environment and is an important engine for housing and job creation. Unfortunately, it doesn't look like the government has taken completely inward that we have to take greater action in the big cities. The government has proposed only 70 million. kr for urban environmental agreements, and in addition they have proposed cutting off important cycling initiatives. The Labour Party, on the other hand, believes that the state must take greater responsibility for the development of urban railways and bus lines, which is essential for good transport solutions in our big cities. We therefore believe that, after dialogue with the municipalities, the state can finance up to 70 pst. of the investments if the municipalities undertake to build housing along the connecting points. We also follow up with funds. In our alternative budget, we have increased the allocation of urban environmental agreements to the major cities by 1 billion. kr more than the government. We are also proposing several million more for important cycling initiatives. In addition to more money, the Workers' Party believes that it is important to do some other action in the capital area, for today's division makes overall land and transport planning difficult. The Workers' Party therefore proposed that we deal with the municipal reform before the summer, a separate process linked to mergers in the capital city area. But once again, the government parties showed a lack of will, and I regret that the Right Party and the Progressive Party voted against our proposals for a capital process. If we are to achieve the goal of the zero-emission society, we need to get a green shift in the construction sector. Over 40 pst. energy use in Norway takes place in our buildings. But if we start building more environmentally friendly buildings, the construction sector will go from being part of the problem to becoming part of the solution. So in our alternative budget, we have strengthened Enova by 100 million. kr, and parts thereof shall be earmarked for support to households for energy conversion that supports the energy reduction target. I would like to stress – and the Minister for Local Affairs would like to respond to this in his statement – that we are missing the technical regulations. The climate agreement concluded that energy requirements should be increased to passive house level in 2015 and almost zero energy level in 2020. In the comments, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, writes that it is worrying that proposals for new regulations – as far as we can see – have not yet been sent to the hearing, and we only stress the importance of this happening as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to make a explanation of vote: the Labour Party will vote in favour of the No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1543	The President would like to recall that the expression ‘complaint’ is an expression to be used with great care in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1546	The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to think new and smarter in housing policy in order to ensure a more environmentally friendly housing policy. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for her consideration in the committee. The vision must be to be able to walk, cycle or take public transport as much as possible in everyday life. This proposal promotes a number of measures to combat climate change and take care of food soils and green areas. Several measures will also give families more time to each other rather than to stand in line. In order to achieve the objective of a more sustainable and environmentally friendly housing policy, it is necessary to be able to live and work in the same place, and to build higher, especially around the collective nodes. There is a large population growth in Norway, and population growth is increasing in strength each year. The growth in 2013 was 57 800 people, or 1.1 pst., and Norway now has more than 5 million inhabitants. The growth is strongest in cities and urban agglomerations, and about 40 pst. of the growth is in Oslo and Akershus. The large population growth poses major challenges in several areas, but in particular in terms of housing and land planning. The importance of both soil protection, the environment and social capital implies the need to avoid urban sprawl. It is especially around cities and towns in the East, in Rogaland and Trondelag that the best soil is located. That's also where the pressure on soil degradation is greatest. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen soil protection, not only through urban and urban densities, but also by providing soil protection with a stronger legal protection that ensures that other alternative areas are assessed over food soil. In order to improve the environment and climate, there is a need to limit road traffic, which is one of the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. The location of dwellings, workplaces, commerce and services are among the main factors affecting car use and total road traffic. Consolidation of dwellings and jobs and, as far as possible, placing them in or close to centres and collective nodes are a good tool for reducing car traffic and greenhouse gas emissions. Urban sprawl also has significant costs for voluntary organisations and social capital. This is due, inter alia, to: a great deal of time that can be used for social activity is involved in commuting to and from work. This results in less social capital and volunteering, which in turn results in social losses that lower trust. Urban and urban development needs to be pursued, which will make it easier for people to live, work and act in the same place. In order to increase urban and urban housing density, it is necessary to build significantly more in height. Greater land and energy efficiency and conservation of green areas in and around the city will reduce transport needs. There is also a need for more widespread thinking about the use of green lungs and street trees. It will provide a softer and more human-friendly landscape around the agglomeration. National transport plan should become more a tool for overall transport planning, where modes of transport are seen in the context. The Christian People's Party believes that transport projects need to be planned in order to stimulate the development pattern towards central public nodes in cities and agglomerations. Major purchasing centres should be located near these hubs and centrally in cities and agglomerations, so that several of the inhabitants are given a shorter distance and can travel environmentally friendly. Finally, it would also be a good step by the House Bank to expand its lending capacity, so that the House Bank is not reduced to a bank just for the disadvantaged, but it still has to be a bank for housing supply and cyclical regulation. The construction of several student homes is an important housing policy tool here because it can dampen the prices of the rental market for all tenants with a weak economy. As regards proposal No: 4, it is withdrawn because it can be considered to be fulfilled today. I am promoting the proposals No. 1 to 5 as indicated in the vote, with the exception of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1572	The representative Geir S. Tskedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1575	Thank you to the Christian People's Party representative who, with this proposal for a representative, raises important issues and promotes several good proposals. However, the proposals and the attitude also show that the desire for a more environmentally friendly housing policy can be met in different ways. The representative proposal proposes stronger state governance of development policy. I am not quite sure that state plan guidelines necessarily provide more environmentally friendly plans. It depends who's in charge. With the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Agriculture, I do not feel confident that government governance provides more and better public transport and not at all better protection of cultivated land – both key elements of an environmentally friendly housing policy. It is the municipalities that are the local planning authorities and it is through the municipal planning work that it is necessary to facilitate a better land policy that takes care of soil protection and the environment through more densely located areas. Regional and State authorities have objection powers relating to the work of local authorities. Untimely planning strategies may also be reviewed within today's legislation. I therefore think there is no need to weaken local planning responsibility, as I understand that the proposers are adding up. I fully agree with the proposers that the development of residential and economic areas must be linked to requirements for good collective coverage by bus or train. However, this does not mean that all expansion must take place in established centre areas or into a collective hub or railway station. On the contrary, strong environmental requirements may make it necessary to slow down the growth of the area button centre and shift the growth to new areas. For the Centre Party, soil protection is a main concern in the development of an environment-friendly housing development policy. All too often we see that the protection of high-quality cultivated land is subordinated to the development around the central collective node. There are many examples. Trondheim wants to build 2,000 covers of cultivated land and got to it by the County. Stavanger wants to do the same thing, but fortunately, he's struggling a little bit more with his regional authorities. Both in Trondheim and in Stavanger, there are good alternatives just outside the city border. Malvik has good collective coverage by rail and bus and ready-to-use development areas. Sandnes has good and vacant land on unproductive land. I hear the council say that large municipalities should be given greater responsibility for their land use because they have stronger planning skills than smaller municipalities. It is possible that they have good leveling skills, but it helps little or nothing when they lack the willingness to take soil protection into account. I am happy to be with the Christian People's Party and SV in a note that underlines the need to give soil protection a stronger legal protection. It is very regrettable that no more parties support this. I am promoting, on behalf of the Centre Party, an alternative to proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. In our proposal, we ask the government to ensure that the national transport plan prioritises the establishment of collective coverage for new and established housing and economic areas, and that consideration for the conservation of cultivated land is emphasised, so that it must not give way to development interests. The Parties agree to support the other proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 5 produced by the Christian People's Party with support from SV. I'll bring this up with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1596	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1599	Thank you very much to the proposer for very good suggestions and an important debate. It's like when it comes to chalk, what we choose, for example. on our budgetary priorities. We'll see in the future how you can give priority, for example. public transport and the train effort ahead of the road appropriations. So far, it looks a little bit wrong at that point. There was an interpellation here in Stortinget for not so long ago where my colleague Bård Vegar Solhjell launched ten bids for how to build cities. I think I'll repeat the ten bids, because I think they contain a lot of good. The first commandment is: you should be happy in the city and cultivate the diversity and creativity that exist there. I think we have to think about this when we're going to make these dense centers around, where we want people to live – that they have to have urban qualities that are about something other than just a place to live. It must be planned for that. The second commandment is: you should not abuse the possibility of building dwellings in places where it is appropriate. So you have to use good areas that are suitable for living, and also use them for other things, for example. purchasing centres or other items related to the collective nodes. Because it is important that we now manage to locate the homes so that people do not have to have a car or use it much. The third commandment is to keep the quality of your living holy. That means you don't have to go four on the requirements of the homes we build, in terms of energy – we're going to build plus houses, like this. SV will, and grant money to it in the budget. Nor are there four requirements for universal design. All the dwellings we now build should be accessible to everyone, and you should be able to live there and do well without a car. The fifth commandment is: you have to provide bicycles and environmentally friendly cars. That means you plan the area so that it takes precedence. It has to, otherwise they don't get it. The cars are always given priority. The sixth commandment is, don't break the boundary. It's especially important here in Oslo, of course -- there's a lot of land here that you can keep going, and a lot of vacant plots on which it's not built. The seventh commandment is, don't lure people out of the center. For example, this is a case in point. the location of purchasing centres. It is important now that we do not evolve more and more in a direction where we rely on people driving cars to shopping malls, but manage to locate both public transport, housing and the necessary infrastructure – building small cities – so that people are not lured out of town when they are going to act. The eighth commandment is, "You shall desire a city where there is little difference between people." This means that more attention needs to be paid to urban development, such as: Groruddals bet in Oslo, or bet in other parts of the city, and do not do as the government and down prioritize and cut in those bets. It contributes so positively to good urban environments and also makes room for more there. If people are doing well, there will be room for more. You have room for more houses, and you say yes to new neighbors only you have made sure that there is quality in the residential areas – quality of more things than just that you have a roof over your head. So it says the ninth commandment that you have to have more partners. This means that we need resources to work with those who want to develop these urban areas along the collective nodes. The tenth commandment is that you should have no more plans than necessary, but you must have a plan. You have to have a good plan. That plan must include, inter alia: be able to prioritise money for collective action: more for railways, more for bicycles, more for energy quality – more for bicycle roads, for example, than this government can now do. I am very pleased that the SV and the Workers' Party now agree that we can enter into binding urban environmental agreements with up to 70 pst. But it is precisely the municipal authorities that have this plan, that they follow it, and that we are all contributing to this. If you don't break the climate agreement at least, and you get much fewer good housing than you could have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1630	Let me first tell the representative Karin Andersen that the government has a plan. We have already established new state planning guidelines to facilitate environmentally friendly, compact and pleasant cities. And the bourgeois majority in Stortinget provides for historical appropriations for public transport. I'm glad it's very important. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party for putting this important matter on the agenda. It is right that the case-rapporteur, Mr Kapur, stressed that our cities are growing. And our cities are growing a lot. That means that we have to facilitate pleasant, open, but also compact and environmentally friendly cities. After the Christian People's Party presented this proposal, the government has put in place new government planning guidelines – new guidelines according to the old ones, which were from 1993 onwards. The new guidelines address the challenges we face both in cities and across the country. We are concerned that the growing cities will facilitate the environment, health and good urban space. It's important when cities grow, that we manage to plan for the compact around the collective node, while at the same time taking care of good, open and pleasant urban spaces. One of the things that has really made me happy and impressed me as the Council of State and responsible for this area is how active the cities themselves are in this area. Because it's not like we're the only ones working in national policies, which are concerned with the environment, health and good urban space. There is also a high priority in cities. I am impressed by the competence and the bold goals set in all the major cities in Norway to develop cities and take into account both the environment and health. I believe that the proposals that have been put forward are well on the way. As regards proposal No: 1 is well under way through the new state level guidelines. Proposal No. 2 is under work, proposal No. 3 followed up and proposal No. 4 has now been drawn, as we have now established new state plan guidelines. So the Christian People's Party is far on the way to hearing prayers in the work that the government is now following up, and where we also place great emphasis on the cooperation agreement that has been concluded between the government and our two cooperation parties in the Stortinget. Just a few words also on proposal No. 5, where one proposes to sharpen the so-called purchase center rule. I don't think it's necessary. Firstly, we have a regulation that was laid down in 2008 and that applies for ten years. Secondly, most county municipalities have developed, or are in the process of developing, new regional plans for the centre structure and location of trade. This means that the counties themselves take regional responsibility for this important area, starting with the national regulation. In addition, my department has launched an evaluation of the purchasing centre determination, and this evaluation is very important for the further work we are going to do in this area. When it comes to the last point, I think we all have to use our creativity, and this is a lot of work in cities. It's about using positive tools to make cities more attractive. There are limits to how much detail we can control and regulate from the state. I think we need to think more positive instruments, not least in terms of how cities now themselves are working on this important issue. At least it's my ambition that the government should be on the city's side, and that we should interact with the cities and help cities to better facilitate compact cities with open urban spaces that take into account both the environment, health and the city's inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1648	Governments talked a lot about cities and the urban environment — for natural reasons. I have a question related to the Urban Region Programme, which is intended to replace the Project Future Cities. We have now received some input in connection with the treatment of the State budget, and criticism has been voiced because of the lack of climate and environmental objectives in that project. I wonder if the Council of State could comment. Will the Council of State also say something about how to ensure that the competence and experience built up through this Future City Project, which focused on climate, will be safeguarded and further disseminated?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1653	Let me start by answering a question that the representative asked in his post, which I did not answer in my post. There are new provisions in what we call TEK 15, which are tightened provisions relating to climate, environmental and energy use in dwellings. There we still have the ambition that those proposals should be sent to the hearing before Christmas. That means we're working intensively with these in the department to keep that deadline. When it comes to the cities of the future, we end that program in line with what the previous government had planned. I think it's important that when we start that kind of project, the projects also end. Then we have to take with us the important lessons, the experience and the knowledge that the projects have produced, in the further work we have done. The experience gained through the cities of the future will be continued not only in the Urban Region programme, but also in other work carried out by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1660	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I did not record that the Council of State answered the question of the objectives of the new Urban Region Programme, i.e. the urban development programme. More information has been made available that there are no specific objectives in relation to the climate and the environment in that programme. There was some of the strength in the cities of the future. So I wonder if the Council of State can answer that question. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1667	I'd like to. As far as the Urban Region Programme is concerned, it is not a programme primarily to build on the cities of the future. I believe that the experience and knowledge we have gained from the cities of the future must be implemented in everything we are doing when we are going to develop more environmentally friendly cities. The Urban Region Programme is on its own. It's about how we can build up the conflict and distinguish between the city and the region around it. It's about how we can make sure that urban growth also creates positive ring-effects in the region around us. In that work, I believe it is quite natural that we also focus on climate and the environment. I do not understand such criticism, because it is quite natural for those working in urban areas, cities and regions, to put this important issue on the agenda and discuss how to manage the climate and the environment in order to also contribute to the growth and development of urban regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1672	Everyone is talking about soil protection, but few are willing to do something about it, and it doesn't seem to be a majority for this decision today either. A total increase has decided that we should increase food production in Norway, and that, of course, requires that we take even better care of our food soil. The county is the long-standing arm of the country in the follow-up of such large-scale decisions. When the County of Southern Tribes, contrary to all the advice of their own professional authorities, goes in to build down 1,000 targets of cultivated land, it shows that this is really very vulnerable and too dependent on individuals. Soil protection is set aside, and it is given for pressure from builders who want to build on pre-planned land. So my question is, does the Council of State think that soil protection has a strong enough protection in today's law?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1681	I believe that soil protection considerations are well taken care of in the new state planning guidelines. Then there is one of the important elements to be taken into account. And so it's that from time to time there's different considerations that stand up to each other. That was also the case when the Senter party was in government. It was built down cultivated and arable land under the red-green government, and there will also be situations where there are other considerations that weigh heavier when we're going to make our priorities. But we have protected the soil protection of the new state plan guidelines, and I believe that it also addresses the issues raised in the proposals promoted by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1686	I want to follow up on what the representative Håheim asked for, because I was unable to get what the Council of State was really responding to when it came to the urban regional programmes. So the criticism is that this is not mentioned or taken care of there, while the Council of State says it is implicit in it. Could the Council of State be a little clearer on how this has been done, so that it is actually taken care of? The problem here is that it lies as a general lead, but when it carries its heels and decisions, it is often set aside, and so sometimes it becomes planned and started things that don't work. The Council of State is very clear that positive measures should be used. The second question is: what is the reason why the government now in the budget has cut off the area initiatives, which are just going for such purposes as what we are now talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1693	Let me first take the area bet. There is a significant territorial effort also in 2015, and it is far more than the commitments entered into by the State. It is such that under the red-green government the area bet went up, and preferably in election years, and then it went down the year after – after the election. So it's not uncommon for priorities and appropriations to go up and down a little bit. They did that under the red-green government, and so have they under us. But we are continuing to invest in the Groruddalen and other priority areas. Then it's a little difficult to deal with a criticism of the Urban Region Programme – a criticism that I haven't been served. That criticism has not reached me and my department. Rather, on the contrary, I experience great enthusiasm and commitment from the cities and the region, for finally, a government has been given to look at positive instruments to make the city and region work well together. Then I believe that, of course, climate and environment should be an integral part of that work. It's not something you do next to it, it's something that needs to be integrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1700	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1704	There were a couple of sentences and comments in the contributions from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party that made me take the floor. First of all, the Labour Party: I agree with the Labour Party that we must have a real big urban effort, and I agree that we must bet on public transport. I think it is commendable that the Workers' Party proposes 70 pst. the financing of collective actions. But the question that comes up then is, why didn't you do what you did in the eight years of government by a simple majority? Then it was zero, but when you're in opposition, it's 70 pst. This leads me to conclude with the following: the working party did not implement in position, but promises air money in opposition. This government and government party is promised in opposition and implements in position. When we say we're going to finance with 50 pst, that's something we worked for when we were in opposition. So to SV: When it's almost religious in this room, you have to listen, and I noticed especially the offer seven about the mall. I would like to remind SV that an identical proposal with what has now been submitted was also submitted during the treatment of Innst. 154 S for 2012–2013, which was addressed on 17 December 2012. Proposal No. 5 was identical to the purchase center proposal that is now available, and then SV and the centre party voted against. Now SV is co-sponsored, and the Senterpartiet has also turned around. I expect that at the time they voted on autopilot and not on their own conviction, and that they have turned around because of it. But I want to remind them that they have actually voted against what they now vote for, less than 24 months later. However, the proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. I thank you for a good debate, and I particularly thank the rapporteurs and the Tuskedal representative for the discussion in the committee, and I look forward to working on these areas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1715	As rapporteur, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, the parties and the Council of State for supporting the various aspects of this fairly comprehensive proposal. The Christian People's Party is now looking forward to providing concrete guidance for further improvements, for housing policy, for soil protection and for housing in densely populated areas in our country. Then we have also been within the ten commandments, and in the case of prayer, it is based on that there is a party that listens, but also has the power to do something about it. The Christian People's Party appreciates the further development of this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1722	It's fine if someone's listening. I just needed to replicate to the representative of the Right, because that's how you vote for what you've agreed on, whether it's a budgetary settlement, I expect, or you're in government. Sometimes you win with your points of view, and sometimes you don't. That's the case with SV, and I think that's the case with the right as well. That's probably not all that the representatives from either the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party or the Left are now going to be completely entangled in politics. That's it. Then I think it's important that we allow each other to push into the areas we're concerned about, and that there's not going to be a ping ping pongle where you talk about who said what last year, but actually also manages to discuss the content of the cases. Because there is involvement in many lots a little bit across what you agree on on these issues. That's how I know it's also in the Right, where there are people working for things that might not be completely on the Party line, or that the Party hasn't completely joined yet. I would like the representative from the Right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1729	I just have a shorthand to the representative Kapur's posts. I register that the Right thinks it is fun to talk about the past. I would probably also think that if I had been in the right and had presented the state budget they have submitted. But the Workers' Party is committed to focusing on the challenges we face in the future. We're busy talking forward. So it's like the Workers' Party is developing policies, but we're also building on what we did when we put ourselves in government. Over our period of government, we strengthened public transport and rail – we continue to do so, and we are not so much afraid to think a little bit new and make new proposals. It's called developing politics, and with the polls the government parties have during the day, it might be a tip to notice. So to the municipal minister, who said in reply that the criticism related to the urban region programmes had not come to the ministry. I would like to inform the Committee that, among other things: has received input from the Norwegian Architects’ Association, which is very concerned that climate and energy objectives are not part of the Urban Region Programme. The letter also states that their recordings have been sent directly to the management of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation by State Secretary Per-Willy Amundsen and technical management of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. So I hope the Council of State will go right back to the department and read the recordings, because they will well be received.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1738	I thank you for the information. I stressed whether criticism had come from some of the cities and regions participating in the Urban Region Programme, and I have not recorded that. I believe that it is very important to take into account climate and environment considerations; it should be a naturally integrated part of the urban region programme. But the main purpose of this is to look at the interaction between the city and the region. It's about growth and development, and that includes climate and environment. I then notice that a letter has come from the architects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1743	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1757	I am the one who, in the case-rapporteur, Mr Schous, is given the honour of presenting the report to the rapporteur. Let me say that the Committee is pleased that the government has put forward a proposal for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act which clarify the terminology of return. It is a unanimous committee behind the vote, which endorses the government's proposal. The Committee stresses that the changes made do not alter the material content of the different provisions. It is terminology that changes, because today's concepts can quickly contribute to creating confusion about the consequences of a negative decision. Firstly, the proposal excludes the concept of ‘voluntary’ in the Foreign Affairs Act in cases where it is not a question of choosing to leave the country but where the foreigner is actually going to leave the country. It is therefore necessary to amend the law four places, so that the term ‘voluntary’ is taken out where there is actually no mention of voluntary activity. The Committee is of the opinion that a new instrument of concept will make it clearer the individual's responsibility to comply with negative decisions requiring the exit of the country. The Committee has also noted that the Government proposes to change the term ‘period of return’ to ‘time of departure’. Here a changed concept will be in line with what has been incorporated into the foreign administration, it will be more consistent with other parts of the law, and that is also the concept that is already in use in the foreign regulation. It is important at all to use one and the same concept for the same situation. Non-residents who are not legally resident are obliged under the law to leave the country. This applies to persons with a final refusal to apply for protection or other residence permit, to persons who have lost their place of residence and to persons who have come here illegally and have never applied for a residence permit. None of this changes with today's amendment to the law, as mentioned above, important language clarifications are being carried out. We have noticed that the majority of the hearing bodies are in favour of the proposal to change today's return terminology, but there are also some questions about whether this proposal – alone, at least – will help the target audience to better understand the consequences of a negative decision. The Government indicates that a change in the terminology of the provisions not only ensures that the target audience understands the return obligation resulting from a negative decision but that the change is one of several stages in strengthening the information on returns communicated to the traveller. The Committee agrees and is also in favour of further action in this respect. With this, I am delighted to recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1783	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1797	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1806	In this case, there is a referral from the Municipal and Administrative Committee with proposals for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act, i.e.: an extension of the manufacturing period by appeal and the right to a procedural agent. The Committee promotes a proposal for legislative amendments in the Law of 15 May 2008 No. 35 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here, most often called the Foreign Affairs Act. After the third paragraph of Paragraph 106 of the Foreign Affairs Act of today, the person affected shall be presented to the courts with a request for imprisonment ‘as soon as possible, and as far as possible the day following the arrest’. Anticipation is currently being made on the basis of foreign law under this paragraph. The Committee therefore proposes that the manufacturing period under the Foreign Affairs Act be extended and amended to ‘at the earliest possible date and at the latest on the third day following the application’. The deadline will then be the same as the one currently applicable to the manufacture under Section 183 of the Criminal Procedures Act. However, a shorter manufacturing period should apply to minors in the same way as it does today in the Criminal Procedures Act, either alone or with family. Where the manufacturing period is proposed to be extended to three days, the Ministry considers that it is necessary to grant the right to a procedural agent at an earlier date than in the production of the court. It is therefore proposed, at the same time, to legislate for the appointment of a procedural agent «it is clear that an attack by a foreigner will not be released, transported or produced for imprisonment under § 1006 before the end of the second day following the attack». The majority of the Committee has agreed to this. The proposal also mentions international obligations relating respectively to the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. The proposal also gives a review of the law of other countries, Finnish and Danish respectively. The purpose of an extension of the manufacturing right is to facilitate more efficient processes for the implementation of forced returns. In the vast majority of these cases, the stranger is transported out shortly after being apprehended. The Ministry also points out that the transit Directive 2003/110/EC – the EU directive on transit for the purposes of removal by air – has provisions that make it inappropriate for the current short manufacturing period. In addition, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has provided guidelines for the detention of asylum seekers and mentions that production should take place within 24 to 48 hours. The Ministry notes that after the legislative proposal, the presentation shall be made ‘at the earliest possible date and at the latest on the third day following the application’. In particular, it is in prison for persons who have received a final rejection of an asylum application and who are therefore no longer asylum seekers or who have been expelled that a three-day manufacturing period is needed. If it facilitates transport within three days, it will not be necessary as a starting point for pre-shipment production. The Ministry points out that, in many cases, the foreigner is apprehended for transportation within two days. In cases where an attack is required in a police district and transport to Trandum, time may be too short to deliver within 24 hours. In other cases, it may be necessary to conduct identity clearance investigations. The Committee considers that the changes may result in more efficient procedures and may also be resource-saving. The amendments were submitted for consultation as early as 2010, but were promoted by the current government. The proposal put forward today on the appointment of a procedural agent is therefore somewhat more concrete than the consultation proposal. The Committee takes the view that the proposal under consideration is not contrary to international law and international conventions Norway is obliged to do so. All lots, with the exception of SV, have noticed that in most cases the foreigner is transported out shortly after the attack. Today, when prison is necessary, the prison is only held for a few days. In 2013, the median residence time at Trandum was 1.08 days. Only in a few cases is the total seizure and imprisonment time more than three days. On this basis, the majority of the Committee considers it appropriate to extend the manufacturing period to a maximum of three days. The majority also agree with the proposal on the appointment of a procedural agent. SV opposes the amendment to § 106, with the exception of the specific deadline for the production of minor children. As case rapporteur and representative of the Christian People's Party, it is important for me to find out that we in Norway must ensure a predictable, fair and humane asylum and immigration policy, and we believe that this supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1846	SV supports the proposal for the appointment of a Process Agent. However, as the rapporteur said, we disagree with the amendment proposed in the fourth paragraph of Section 106, which concerns extending the manufacturing period to three days. We do not think that is a good enough reason for that. We also refer to hearing replies from the Riksadvokaten, the Bar Association, the NOAS and Juss-Buss, which say that comparison with criminal cases is not relevant. These are issues that are not of the same calibre as that, and where the same considerations apply. It is also a desire for increased efficiency, but I believe that increasing efficiency is not a good enough reason to weaken the legal certainty of foreigners, that the foreigner should be tried in court as early as possible. We fear that these changes will lead to an increase in the number of detentions and, in particular, to an increase in the number of days. As the rapporteur points out, it is a great point that there are few days to go, we agree, but we believe that this will lead to the opposite. In the comments we address a topic that has not been addressed here, but which is closely related to this, namely that there is no legislation on how long children can sit on Trandum. When you discuss it, you often talk about internment. I have tried to look into the law, and it is not possible to find any other name for what is happening on Trandum, other than imprisonment. Children are not allowed to be imprisoned, but we do so quite often when the children are imprisoned with their parents at Trandum in connection with the broadcast. Both the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights state that no one can be imprisoned without law, the so-called principle of legality. I do not find anywhere that the imprisonment of children with family is regulated – it is difficult to find out where the homes are specifically related to children. In the big message Children on the run, it says: ‘As a general rule, children shall not be apprehended and placed at the international foreign exchange for more than 24 hours. The Legal Department of the Foreign Office of the Police Department shall always be informed when there are questions about placing children at the boarding school. [[...]] The alert requirement applies both to single, minor asylum seekers and to children who come together with their parents.’ There is a kind of control mechanism, but still there is a need for legislation to regulate this in a way that takes care of the children, because now there are issues where the parents' case allows children to be interned, i.e. imprisoned, at Trandum. I hope that the Council of State sees this problem that lies in the lack of legal support, and come to Stortinget with it – otherwise it is relevant to promote a proposal for a representative to get the topic addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1868	I could basically be content to refer to the excellent report by the case-rapporteur, who explained both the content of the proposal and the committee's treatment in a very good way. When I take the word anyway, I would like to add a few comments to the SV's comment and so far also post here in the hall. It is assumed that a change in the manufacturing period will also lead to a longer stay on Trandum. There's no basis for that claim, as I see it. What is the challenge today is that when you look at the average time and the real median time of staying at Trandum, there are some things that go beyond today's deadline. It therefore requires a completely different procedure, which is resource-intensive, and which we intend to amend with this proposal, so that a better and more efficient procedure can be applied. One can also draw the conclusion in the other direction that when the foreign authorities and the PU have to spend less time on manufacturing, one can work more effectively on broadcasting. It can, in the ultimate sense, draw in the other direction. I will not leave it undisputed from this speaker that this proposal will automatically lead to a somewhat longer stay on Trandum. I don't think that's the basis for saying that. The representative also pointed out that there are different grounds for establishing a basis for the preparation of prisons under the Criminal Procedures Act and incarceration under the Foreign Affairs Act. I agree with that, but the question is probably really turned around: why should there be especially much stricter regime in foreign affairs than in criminal matters? According to the Criminal Procedures Act, it is a matter of linking a person to a criminal offence before the issue of guilt is settled, while in cases under the Foreign Affairs Act, it is a question of the detention of a foreigner to be sent out of the country as a result of a legally adopted decision. So I'm not quite sure if it's easy to defend that the framework for manufacturing should be so much narrower in foreign affairs than in criminal matters. Finally, the representative mentioned the relationship with the imprisonment of children. There are no separate rules on this in the Foreign Affairs Act, but there are general rules relating to the apprehension and imprisonment of children. There is a specific basis for the assessment of the right to appeal, and imprisonment shall not take place unless it is imperative. And so is the fact that in all these cases the court will test the proportionality of child imprisonment. Under the general rules, imprisonment may in any case not exceed 12 weeks unless there are specific reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1879	As far as the last point is concerned, I certainly believe that there is a need for clearer laws. It is also necessary to use more of the other alternatives available today, i.e. reporting obligations and a specific place of residence, in foreign matters relating to the imprisonment of children. There may also be a need to explore more alternatives, and the last resort for the imprisonment of children must be stronger, because the provisions to which the Minister of Justice now refers are not the provisions which are the coin of children who accompany their parents in an expulsion case. There are provisions on matters which are not related to the individual child. Some studies are missing on how to regulate this. So to the second theme, proportionality and whether this is comparable to criminal matters. I disagree with the Council of State that it is turning it upside down. On the contrary, I believe that there is an estimate of where on the scale you place it to break the Foreign Affairs Act and not travel out. We've had other things here in the Stortingen where the government has come through that it's kind of being equated with other, more serious crime, that is, that you're calculating it as a very serious crime not to go out. It is compared with other serious crimes where, in my view, social concerns suggest an extended manufacturing period. In these cases, I perceive that there are no such reasons that apply – that is, there is reason to extend the manufacturing deadlines in these cases. I'm concerned that we have a slightly different view of the importance of keeping these provisions high in terms of foreigners compared to others. I definitely think we have to use the same principles. We can't have four on legal certainty, nor can we equate all kinds of crimes and say that everything is equally serious no matter what it is. I feel that we are in the process of moving into these foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1888	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1902	This case concerns the examination by the National Audit Board of the custody of veterans from international operations. This revision focuses on the follow-up of veterans by the Defence and Civil Service Departments, which are in need of follow-up after completion of their duties. In addition, there is a desire to explain the reasons for any weaknesses in the follow-up. Throughout the post-war period, Norwegian women and men have participated in international operations and over 100,000 people have participated in them. Among these, 22 000 have participated in the UNIFIL force in Lebanon and 8 000 have participated in the ISAF force in Afghanistan. Participation in sharp international operations to protect Norway’s security, interests and values may be one of the greatest pressures to which a person is subjected, depending on the type of service that a person has. In the past, the Defence Committee has underlined the clear responsibility of Norwegian society and authorities to ensure a good follow-up of women and men participating in international operations for Norway, in Innst. S. No 318 for 2007-2008 and Innst. S. No 298 for 2008-2009. To follow up St.meld. No 34 for 2008-2009, the Interministerial Action Plan ‘In service for Norway’ was launched. Responsibility for following up veterans who need assistance after participating in international operations is a cross-sectoral responsibility and therefore requires coordinated cross-sectoral and ministerial use. The Committee points out that most of the soldiers who leave come home with positive experiences, enhanced skills, and good memories. This can be attributed, inter alia, to: the selection of soldiers for international operations, pre-deployment training and good cooperation among the soldiers supporting each other, including: with debrifing after serious incidents. All those who come home from international operations must make their way home through a so-called intermediate landing. This contributes to a lower proportion of those experiencing problems after the service today than in previous deployments. The defence structure has been significantly reduced in recent years, and long-term deployments of Norwegian forces abroad, combined with too short time at home between deployments, have led to a high burden on defence personnel. The norm set out in the ‘Service for Norway’ action plan is that the home time between two deployments should be four to five times the length of the last period of service out. This standard has not been followed in practice. The Committee has taken note of the fact that the Minister of Defence is going to review the standard of home time, the guidelines to be applied and how this is to be adapted to the mission. The Committee is satisfied with this. The defence has not previously had an adequate overview of where and when the individual has been in service, and this has resulted in one not complying with the expropriation standard. According to the Council of State, there is a need to develop better management systems in order to get a better overview of the individual’s burden. The Committee shares this view. The Committee has noted that the follow-up by the Department of Psychiatry and Stress Response has a short waiting time and is well known among veterans, so that the threshold for seeking help is low. However, not everyone has really had access to this offer because travel expenses were not covered by the Health Economy Administration. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Defence is now working towards the establishment of a mechanism for reimbursement of travel expenses from HELFO. The National Audit Office’s investigation shows that it has been difficult to transfer the competence of veterans to all parts of the civil auxiliaries. The Committee has noted here that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will ‘early mark’ the staff of Nav, in order to improve the competence of the many Nav offices. The Committee is concerned that the waiting time at some of the district medical centres is long in getting priority health care. Long waiting times may lead to a deterioration in the situation and to chronic suffering caused by veterans. Veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder may in many cases be less likely to have to wait for treatment because they already have a high threshold to seek treatment. The Committee considers this to be serious. One of the findings of the study is that the treatment of damages due to psychological damage at the State pension fund takes too long. The Committee has noted that the follow-up plan ‘In service for Norway’ aims to reduce this period of procedure and that compensation under the scheme should be clarified. The follow-up plan ‘In service for Norway’ is a cooperation between seven ministries involved in strengthening the recognition and respect of human resources by society before, during and after international service. There are 27 measures listed here. The Committee points out that one in four of the notified persons is under 30 years of age. This helps to illustrate the severity of the situation. The Committee is pleased with the measures outlined by the Council of State in the follow-up plan ‘I service for Norway’, which aims to improve the conditions which have led to the weaknesses identified in the Riksrevision study. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee is unanimous in all the points in the comments on this matter, and with this I recommend the Committee's recommendation as set out in the opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e1932	‘Norwegian authorities have a responsibility to follow up soldiers before, during and after duty. A unanimous increase has been behind many measures in recent years, which has helped to improve the situation of injured veterans who have been involved in international operations on behalf of Norway. Nevertheless, much remains to be done: many injured veterans often experience the encounter with the civil auxiliaries, such as Nav, the State pension fund and the health care system, as very difficult. The veterans find that there is a lack of competence about what they have been exposed to. On the other hand, compensation for equal damage is not equal and compensation schemes are perceived as unbridled and unfair. Too few points in the 2011 veteran action plan ‘In service for Norway’ have been implemented. What will the Council of State do to correct these shortcomings in the policy of veterans?’ This is the impending representative of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide's interplay with the then Minister of Defence Ström-Erichsen. In this interpellation debate of 14 December 2012, there was a cross-political consensus on the importance of taking care of the veterans. Special tribute was also given to the Minister of Defense for her work to correct skepticism, and not least the organisations of the veterans had been important in the work ahead of the action plan ‘In service of Norway’. I started with this to make two things visible. One is that there is a cross-political consensus about working to strengthen the position of the veterans. The second is that there is a work that takes time. And that's what the Riksrevision report shows first and foremost -- that everything is not yet in place for those of our veterans who need extra support from society. The aim of the National Audit Office's investigation has been to assess whether veterans from international operations receive good help and follow-up, as laid down in its decisions and resolutions. The goal has also been to highlight the causes of possible weaknesses in the follow-up. The study covers the whole period from 2001 to 2014, but with a main emphasis on the years from 2010 to 2014. «The vast majority of soldiers feel that they come home with positive experiences, enhanced competence and good memories. At the same time, participation in operations is known to pose a risk of psychological and physical harm to some.’ In this revision, the main weight has been added to the follow-up of Defence and civil services by personnel in need of follow-up after the service has been completed. The Court of Auditors has found: The load on defence personnel associated with foreign service is high. The staff will soon be able to get home between deployments. The defence has been given a better overview of the services provided to individuals, but the management information is inadequate. Veterans with mental health disorders in many cases do not get the help they need. The follow-up from Defense has been better, but not everyone has equal access to help. There are varying supply levels of mental health in the specialist services and sometimes long waiting periods. The organisation of participation in the labour market is deficient. Substitution treatment due to psychological stress damage takes a long time. Competence of veterans is not sufficiently made available to all parts of the civil auxiliaries. On the basis of this, the Riksrevision recommends: in cooperation with the Defence Agency to assess the means by which you can achieve the objectives of adequate return time between foreign missions. In order to follow up on set objectives, better management information will be needed. in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, to consider measures to ensure that several veterans receive assistance for mental health problems within a reasonable period of time in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to assess how Nav can ensure a close and good follow-up of veterans outside the labour market in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to follow up the establishment by the State Pension Fund of a system that ensures follow-up in the handling of claims for veterans who have psychological damage in cooperation with the departments concerned and are committed to continuing and, where appropriate, strengthening information and training measures that enable case handlers and health professionals to benefit more fully from the expertise environment that has a particular knowledge of the needs and challenges of veterans; More than 100,000 Norwegian women and men are involved in international operations on behalf of Norway, and Norway is responsible for their follow-up as a nation. This is a cross-sectoral responsibility and requires a coordinated use of tools across sectors and departments. The National Audit Office has drawn up several recommendations to the Ministry of Defence, as I have just mentioned, and the Committee has, in its comments, agreed to the recommendations. One of the biggest challenges for veterans is to be in contact with the civil auxiliaries. Veterans make up a small part of the users of the civil auxiliaries, and then they can often meet people who don't understand the specific challenges that the veterans have. The study shows that it has been difficult to transfer the competence of veterans to all parts of the civil auxiliaries. For this reason, it is very good that the Minister of Labour will add a ‘earmark’ to Nav, so that the competence of the many Nav offices can be improved. In concrete terms, it shall be to continue and further develop the established competence environment in Nav Elverum until subsequently to include centralised procedures on matters relating to personnel in international operations. There are also far too many variations between the different district psychiatric centres in relation to waiting time and in relation to the number of people entitled to priority health care. It's worrying, I think, that the waiting time is too long, because it's easier to do something about a mental illness if you get started on treatment early. Another finding in the study is that the treatment in the State pension fund of claims due to mental stress damage takes too long. Although the complexity of the cases suggests that the treatment of the cases will usually take a little time, the investigation suggests that the cases remain unnecessary for a long time. because of reminder routines. In the follow-up plan, it is an objective to reduce the duration of treatment for claims for compensation. Among other things, the Ministry of Defence shall draw up a precise interpretation note showing the evidence requirements for compensation. In addition, time limits shall be laid down for the procedure to be laid down in written routines. That's good. The follow-up plan is a collaboration between seven departments involved in strengthening society’s recognition and provision of personnel before, during and after international service. The plan lists 27 measures. One in four of the long-term health reports is less than 30 years old. It illustrates the seriousness of the situation and how important it is that work to correct this situation and speed up work is subject to deadlines for implementation. It is important, I think, that when the Storting decides to send our women and men into international operations, they should know that it is safe to come home, and that if necessary, they should get the help they need. Actions in the ‘Service for Norway’ follow-up plan aim to improve the weaknesses identified in the investigation. That is good, but as I said before – they need deadlines. I think there's every reason to believe that a government council, which in its time as a magnificent representative showed great interest in the veterans, will be busy taking the recommendations of the Riksrevision for the most serious reason. We in the Committee are looking forward to the Riksrevision reporting on the intended functioning of the outlined measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2026	With its decisions to send Norwegian soldiers out in conflict, the Storting has also assumed a responsibility to secure soldiers who have contributed in various international operations, a good and proper follow-up before, during and after the service. The aim of this study from the Riksrevision has just been to assess whether veterans from international operations are getting good enough help and not least follow-up, as the Stortinge has suggested. The Christian People's Party, together with the other parties on the Stortinget, has shown a strong commitment to the veterans, from both a health and a defence perspective. It's about seeing the individual human being, the special experiences and not least the pressures that these people have been subjected to in the field. It is about taking the individual seriously and not leaving it to itself, as many who have been in this service have unfortunately experienced. That's why it's important that we relieve the burden on our veterans. There must be no doubt that those who in this way sacrifice themselves for our country by entering dangerous operations will have a follow-up that takes their risky lives seriously. When the Riksrevision in its report states that veterans with mental health disorders in many cases do not get the help they need, it is a disturbing signal. Although the report also states that the offer has improved for most, not all people have equal access to the help they need. It points to varying supply within mental health and sometimes long waiting times. When the National Audit Office points to the need for more veterans to receive more rapid assistance, better follow-up and improvement of the possibilities for health professionals and case handlers to benefit from settings of expertise and knowledge of the needs of veterans, it is a strong signal of a stronger prioritisation of national competences in this area. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, has previously called for intensified research in this area. We need a national centre of expertise for this type of war stream, which can contribute relevant and useful knowledge also targeting our regional and not least local health services, as well as case handlers at the Nav offices. There are today some good trade unions in war currents in Norway. The challenge is that this often becomes a knowledge for the few. For many in the Nav offices and in the DPS, this competence sometimes becomes too difficult to acquire in such a way that the veterans can benefit from it. The distance appears too long between those who possess nuclear competence and those who are to follow up the veterans in practice. However, we are pleased that the Council of State is now making it clear that it wants to facilitate the interaction and transfer of competences between the various sectors. This applies not least to the clear intention of the Council of State to encourage the active involvement of the defence in cooperation with other departments with their acute competences in the trauma field, related to both prevention and treatment. Also, the fact that the costs for individuals to benefit from the reimbursement of KPS services, i.e. the Psychiatric and Stress Study Office, via HELFO, is a positive contribution to shortening the path from personnel to the professional community that can provide the best health follow-up. Reduced waiting time, more competence towards the staff who meet the individual veteran, and otherwise better organisation of financial arrangements that allow individuals to get the best professional follow-up when they need it, are important measures that we Christian People's Party meets are realized. I refer you to the rapporteur's review.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2047	We now have 100,000 veterans in Norway who have been in international service after World War II. There is a large group, and with family, many in Norway have either been on international missions, or know or are close friends of some of these. It is, as many have said, the responsibility of the nation to follow up these, both in advance of the assignment, when they are out, and over time after they have served. Clearly, being part of international operations, especially for people who have been in warlike situations or in war, is a unique experience that is very difficult for others to get into. That's why we from the Left are very pleased with this report from the Riksrevision, where we make clear and clear recommendations on how to make the offer to veterans even better. We are also going to take into account that what has happened in recent years in terms of offers, both from the defence side and from the civil service, has become far better than the veterans came back to after they had been deployed in Lebanon in the 1980s and early 1990s. But it can always be improved, whether it's by providing better deals through Nav, getting replacement cases to go faster in the State pension fund, raising the quality of the district psychiatric centers, so that variations are reduced and offers are streamlined, or by something as simple as getting reimbursement for travel expenses when visiting the Department of Psychiatry and Stress Management. All of this is important, and it is important to follow up all the points that the Committee points out, to make the offer better at all times. There's one thing I'm taking the floor to address in particular, and that's a bigger problem: there's a short period of time that many people serve out have between the service periods, because it's especially, as we've seen in the operations we've had in Afghanistan, a smaller part of the defense that's had to take a very heavy load. It is then important to be able to get an overview of who has served where — in order to make the most of the capacity and to provide the best possible protection for the individual. At the same time, you have to look at the defence system itself – whether it is really set up in order to be able to roll the staff when the operations go out in time. There's no reason to believe that this is not a problem we're also going to face in the years to come. It's been in Afghanistan. A year ago, I think there were few, if none, in this room who could have imagined that we would have Norwegian personnel in Iraq in a short time. Looking at the situation — an unsolved situation in eastern Ukraine, and especially in the Middle East — as a whole, it is not inconceivable, at least, that you will be able to have a situation in the future where you want to operate abroad. It will be the rule more than the exception – as it has also been. If you look back, from 1978 until today, it's almost continuously been Norwegian soldiers abroad. I think it's important when we look at the defense's device, to make sure that there's a good balance between what's necessary investment and operation within the defense, and that you have enough staff to follow up what's the norm, namely that if you're out for more than three months, you need a stay of four to five times that time at home. I think it is difficult for many with the device we now have, but we have to plan that this will be more possible in the years to come. In addition, the Left believes that this is a good report from the Riksrevision. The response from the Departments and the Assembly is good, and of course we support all the comments from the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2071	Our soldiers and our veterans are making a great effort to contribute to increased security and stability in other countries. They're dealing with some very big challenges. They are exposed to high risks, pressures and strong impressions. Norwegian soldiers are world-class, and my colleagues internationally very often highlight the efforts of Norwegian soldiers. The efforts they are making are crucial to safeguarding our security and our national interests, and it is the way in today's world that things that happen far away can have direct consequences here at home. Fortunately, most people come home with good experiences and experiences, but many of the veterans who are struggling today were out in service 10, 15, 20, often 25 years ago. And let me just share a short story with reference to just this: Kåre Burndeland got the War Cross with sword May 8th this year. He was a very young man who was in surgery in Bosnia. He saved more civil lives and made a fantastic effort – he, along with many others. What he experienced when he came home when he was 21 was that he had no one to talk to about this. Talking to their friends, who still lived at home, if what you had just stood in the middle of, all death and suffering, all dramatic situations, were extremely difficult. That's what many of our veterans have -- and they've had it. Fortunately, the auxiliaries have improved, but many were sitting very much and very long alone with the experiences they had. Our veterans are going out on behalf of Norway, i.e. on behalf of all of us. That's why it's a responsibility for society as a whole to give them that recognition and also the support they need when they get home. I am pleased that both the National Audit Office's report and the Committee are so clear on stressing precisely this social responsibility. I have been involved in the case of the veterans all my time as a politician, and the representative Eldegard also mentioned the interpellation I travelled in December 2012. It's a lot of commitment, and it's been common to a lot of people in this room for years. I have closely followed the relatively good development that has been in recent years in terms of both recognition and care. The action plan ‘I service for Norway’ has been a good tool, and the plan has been fully supported here in Stortinget. This action plan has brought us a good deal further. I'm going to use my time now to tell you what we've done, and do, to reinforce and follow up what's coming out of the National Audit Office's report. Because we're in no way in the goal. There's still a lot left before we can say that anyone who needs special follow-up gets the help they need. We want from the government to follow up and step up efforts through the new follow-up plan that we presented in August. We shall continue to make competences visible, to convey recognition and to provide support. There is a process that needs to go across management levels and sectors, and it is precisely this perspective that permeates the new follow-up plan. Seven government councils and departments are responsible for action in the plan, and it is entirely new that several departments join forces in this way. The whole government is behind the work we're doing right now. We are well in the process of enhancing the competence of the health sector, of child and family protection and of Nav. We need to ensure that each veteran and his family is better informed about the arrangements and procedures that apply to obtain what is required from the auxiliaries. The length of proceedings in the SPK, the State pension fund and Nav shall be reduced and documentation requirements shall be reviewed with a view to simplification. A review of the arrangements shall be carried out. Local authorities should have a clearer role to play, including: through the organisation of municipal action plans, which some municipalities – such as Oslo and Bergen – have done, or are doing well. We will also contribute, as the representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats was involved, to more research in the field. In particular, we have pointed out the family area as important. I always tell veterans who come back from foreign missions, that I think it is wrong to say that the families are affected by the mission; they are part of the mission. Without families, it wouldn't have been possible for the Defense to send soldiers out in international operations. We know in particular that for children having one or two parents out in international operations can be a great impression. We know a little too little about how this affects children and families in the long run, and that's something we want to do more research. I have also taken an initiative towards my Nordic Minister of Defence colleagues in order to achieve Nordic research cooperation in this area within the framework of Nordic defence cooperation. There's also research in NATO on this. The National Audit Office has revealed deficiencies in the systems that we are going to rectify. I believe that the implementation we have of the new follow-up plan responds well to the challenges pointed out by the National Audit Office, and not least to the recommendations made in the report. For this are challenges that have been known. Evaluation and research point in the same direction. It is in the civil auxiliaries that the challenges seem to be greatest. The follow-up plan therefore draws attention to improved interaction between the various civil auxiliaries services. We're going to provide increased competence at all stages and a simpler and more flexible procedure. The Riksrevision findings are based on data from 2012 and are, in other words, somewhat backwards in time. There is reason to believe that the situation for the veterans is somewhat better today than in 2012, but there are still challenges. Some areas that I pointed to in the interpellation have improved, and it's also important to point forward what we're doing now. The competence environment for veterans at the Nav office in Elverum will be continued and further developed. The Office will be continued and strengthened with two posts. This environment has an information and guidance role in relation to other entities in the establishment, and they will also be available for direct requests from veterans. The Agency shall have specific competence in fields of service which are particularly relevant to veterans. It shall also be able to provide guidance on Defence, the State pension fund and other external partners. In addition to the Elverum competence environment, a pilot project will be launched to establish a decentralised system of veteran contact. The purpose of veterinary contacts is to better facilitate veterans in their meeting with Nav. Nav is in the process of specialising in the management of benefits, so that applications for different benefits are dealt with in fewer places than before, i.e. bringing together the expertise on different benefits. There is work to ensure that matters related to veterans will be dealt with gradually in one unit. Since the Riksrevision delivered its survey, the State pension fund has reinforced its efforts. As a result, the procedure period has been reduced. Compensation cases, as the Committee has also pointed out, are, by their very nature, quite difficult to deal with. It shall include, inter alia: specialist statements are obtained and it may take time to confirm the extent of permanent damage. RVTS Øst arranged a special course for specialists earlier in the autumn to increase the competence of health professionals who can draw up specialist declarations. The objective is that this will help increase access to specialists and thus reduce the waiting time for declarations. The National Audit Office's investigation relates to matters affecting several departments. I have been involved in some of the points of contact with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I will now present the comments related to the Ministry of Defence's responsibility. The Minister for Health and Health will explain his/her responsibilities in his/her statement. Veterans develop a unique competence through service in international operations. They are strictly selected, they are well trained and have acquired considerable competence and experience. This competence is important for society, and not least for employers in the civil sector, to see and apply more effectively. It's important for society, and it's important for the veterans, who'll get a meaningful job even after they've finished their service in Defense. To ensure that the transition to work in the civil sector is as simple as possible, the defence must make it easier for employers to understand what international services involve and the competences of veterans. We will therefore do a job of ‘translating’ the competence, if one can use such a concept, so that it is available to employers in the civil sector. I would also like to take the opportunity to commend many projects that take place both among employers' and employees' organisations, just to make the transition easier. The National Audit Service has pointed out that the load on the defence personnel is high. This was also a problem specifically raised by the representative of Elvesuen. Let me spend a little bit of time on this: there's still a group of veterans who get too short time at home between deployments. I am concerned that there should be a reasonable balance between the provision of services in international operations and the provision of services in Norway, so that the burden does not become too high on the individual. For a period of more than three months from the date of repatriation after service, a minimum period of time shall be allowed to run from the date of re-disposal at least twice the last period of decommissioning. However, it is a challenge for some categories of personnel in particular. Some trade unions have been very burdened with high participation in international operations. In particular, liaison, sanitation and logistics related engineers and personnel, as well as the Intelligence Battalion and helicopter and frigate personnel, are strongly sought in international operations. We're going to strive to follow the norm of rest. It's very important. However, there is a need for some regulatory flexibility. Some people volunteer for international services, while others are ordered. We must not have rules that are so clear that we cannot, in some cases, meet the needs of the defence. The defence will ensure a better overview of the burden on individuals and will now work to put in place better management systems. It is necessary to review the standard of home time, the guidelines applicable and how this should be adapted to the mission. These are measures that the Defense is now following up. The use of exemptions from the standard on home time has been tightened since the summer and is currently only granted exceptionally and in very special situations. The defence chooses to leave posts more vigilant when there are no tangible personnel available than to grant exemptions. It's not only the length between the deployments, it's also the total load on the individual that's now being looked at. I am pleased that the Riksrevision sees that the overview of individual service has improved. The National Audit Office has pointed out that SPK’s treatment of compensation cases due to mental stress damage takes too long. One of the first governments did was simplify the special compensation scheme by converting the allocation into an estimate. This means that payments do not stop even if the budget line is exceeded. This was, literally, one of the first things I got on my table, the day after I joined. During the autumn of 2013, payments had stopped twice, and it had natural explanations. There was considerable uncertainty about the forecasts of both the degree of disability and the number of applicants. This means that those who have been awarded compensation now should not have to wait for payment when the compensation is agreed. It is a clear objective of the follow-up plan to reduce the duration of proceedings and to clarify compensation under the scheme. I am also happy to say that the State pension fund has now incorporated new procedures for processing time. From the State pension fund received all the supporting material, the matter shall be settled within four weeks. If that doesn't happen, there are now new procedures for reminding people about the issues in the system, so that they don't lie down without anyone knowing where they are. Individual case handlers now deal with more cases than before, and there are also other measures under planning, such as: a new electronic damage management system and reviewing the sources of information for veterans and relatives. The Ministry of Defence has also, in consultation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the State Pension Fund, drawn up a proposal for guidelines to strengthen the governance and management of the special compensation scheme, and the Ministry of Defence has drawn up a precise interpretative note that makes the difference in the requirement of proof apparent under the 35 G and 65 G mechanisms. At the same time, I believe that these measures respond well to the findings of the National Audit Office in its investigations and report. I think it's important that we don't stop having attention around this field, because we can always get better. But I believe and believe that the measures we have now taken will do the situation in the areas that have been pointed out, better, while I am very pleased that society is now much better at recognising the incredible efforts our men and women in uniform have made and will continue to do in international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2130	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2133	It's very easy to agree on everything the Minister of Defense said here now. I found the measures presented by the Minister, and would like to start, very good, and we are pleased. But then I'm thinking about the veterans now, like already tired, etc. When do they get help? That's pretty important. We're here the whole Biggest now and are very some that this has to happen, but when does that happen? It may not work for those who wear out now, that this happens in two years. Have we seen any deadlines for individual measures? The Minister of Health may be able to answer for what's going on in health, but the Minister of Defense can at least answer for what's going on in her department.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2138	That's what I tried to do through my post. It is the case that the individual veteran must seek help if you feel that you need it, and there is now a significantly lower threshold than it was in the past. This applies to actions in the defence sector and to actions after being in the defence sector or after being in the international service. The actions we have taken in connection with the follow-up plan are being implemented on an ongoing basis. It is important that also the issues that have had the most problems associated with them, such as: the period of procedure of the State pension fund, now shows clear signs of improvement, both because more cases are dealt with than before, the State pension fund gains experience in dealing with these types of cases and sees a little more of the pattern of the cases being dealt with, and not least because clear deadlines for dealing with them are now being set. It has not been before, and it is therefore important that the measures now being implemented are clear and have the necessary deadlines, so that all the veterans who need help and follow-up are given it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2143	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2147	Our veterans deserve and can expect recognition for the efforts they have made for Norway, for our security and our values. The follow-up plan ‘Serviced for Norway’ brings together seven ministers on an important initiative for the immediate care of veterans. The National Audit Service points out that veterans in need of help experience a variety of mental health services in the specialist healthcare service with some long waiting times. My ambition is to create the patient's healthcare. That means that the patient's needs, expectations and desires should be at the heart of how we put up the offers. It is essential for the confidence in health care that those in need receive rapid and good help. In the field of mental health, there are still challenges and many unsolved tasks. Psychiatric health is a high priority in the Right–Fremskritsparti-government, and we strengthen the offer both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. The competence in trauma treatment is in a positive state of development on a national basis, particularly in the period after 22 July 2011. Systematic competence measures in the treatment and follow-up of veterans have also been implemented through the training package in military psychiatry and through the Safer Traumeter Paper programme. There is a great deal of effort to build skills through regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention, which provide guidance for all services concerned. Regional resource networks for response personnel are continued. National knowledge centre on violence and traumatic stress conducts research and investigation in the field of veterans. The government has proposed to set aside $5 million. to further develop and implement a new method of trauma treatment for adults in the district psychiatric centres. The measure is implemented in cooperation with the National Knowledge Centres and the Regional Resource Centres. Treatment of post-traumatic stress syndrome may be relevant at several levels, in permanent practitioners, in the district psychiatric centre and in hospitals. Lawyers refer to specialist, usually to the district psychiatric centre for investigation and treatment. Modum Bad has its own trauma clinic in Oslo. The Viking Center in Troms also has a unit that provides treatment for trauma. A total of 75 district psychiatric centers cover all the municipalities in the country. However, we still have challenges with too long waiting time and insufficient capacity in mental health services both in municipalities and in specialist health services. This is what we are about to change. The government has reintroduced the golden rule to increase the growth of mental health treatment and specialised health care. This was removed by the previous government, and we saw a decrease in both the personnel and the number of patients treated. We are now implementing important reforms in the specialist healthcare system, and we are also delivering free treatment options for mental health and drug use for the next year, and, as mentioned, have reintroduced the golden rule that mental health protection and drug treatment alone should have greater growth than other areas of hospital treatment. The free choice of treatment shall increase the freedom of choice of the individual patient and be expected to reduce waiting time. The golden rule must ensure that mental health and drug treatment do not become balancing items and support our goal of shorter waiting times. However, in order to reduce the waiting time for specialist health services, we also need to invest in municipalities, with better prevention, lowthreshold services and early intervention. The government starts this by increasing the amount of free revenue allocated to municipalities by 100 million. NOK 2015, in addition to the earmarked schemes for setting up psychological services and earmarked grants of SEK 100 million. kr, as agreed in the budget agreement, for treatment for drug addicts in municipalities. By strengthening the municipal services in the government's original draft budget, which have been further strengthened in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, it will, among other things, do so. also provide room for more psychologists in municipalities, ensure better skills and easier access to help where people live. We are also working on our own survey on the primary health service of the future, where a central theme will be an offer for people with mental disorders. The Health Directorate is preparing a report on areas of low competence and the need for national services in the field of mental health protection. The need for trauma competence is one of the areas under review. The government will work to reduce the stigma associated with mental illness. Many people wait too long to contact healthcare, and one of the reasons why it is likely that there are still challenges to the stigma of having mental health challenges. Information on treatment services and the rights of veterans will help the staff to seek help early, when and if they need it. We can't help but notice that someone gets plagues of different kinds after a mission has ended, and we want to facilitate mastering their own lives, both for the staff and for the family. The learning and mastering work must therefore be strengthened. Health is mastering the physical or mental stress to which the body and soul are subjected. Through our work on mental health, we are just going to facilitate mastering our own lives. The National Audit Office points out that for those veterans who need follow-up from the Defence Office, it will be very important to establish a permanent regime of travel reimbursement. The defence provides health services of which many veterans benefit. Today's legislation initially covers only travel expenses to specialist health services covered by health regions and services covered by Chapter 5 of the Law on Social Security. Legal changes will be necessary if travel costs for other treatment are to be covered. The normal health follow-up of defence personnel, both on duty and formerly on duty, shall be carried out in the ordinary health and care services, in the same way as the follow-up of the rest of the population. Health regions and municipalities shall provide the necessary health and care services to all. The reimbursement schemes of healthcare services for patient travel are adapted to these services. On this basis, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Defence have come to the conclusion that travel expenses for treatment at the Psychiatric and Stress Management Office are covered by the Defence until a possible new scheme has been assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2179	This case – not the case we are dealing with today, but the situation of the veterans – has been dealt with in Stortinget on several occasions. The document that the Riksrevision has now presented to the Stortinget has been a very thorough review of the situation. The good part of this debate is that it seems to be a common understanding of what the challenge is, and I feel very secure about what the two Councils have now presented in the debate. It is absolutely necessary and absolutely right, of course, that, in such a context as this – when we talk about dealing with our over 100,000 veterans, who have made themselves available for the tasks that Stortinget has decided – they make sure that they get the follow-up that they are entitled to. It has not been good for a long time. Now I think we're starting to see the end of a development where we can assure ourselves that it's good. A small element in this, which may be important for the individual, to whom I would like to stress, and to which Councillor Höie was involved, is the aspect which relates to the individual's barrier to seeking help. And it's certain, as the Council of State said, that much of this is related to the prejudices that are still often there when it comes to showing that you have mental or other kinds of problems that result from this. You kind of shouldn't do that. This is difficult for the Storting to do something active about, but we have to make sure that the limit to taking this initiative is as low as possible. I asked for the word to say the first thing I said, that it is fine that there is a broad consensus that the recommendations of the National Audit Office, the Committee's comments and the government now say to us, are so coincident that we have come a bit on our way. This is a constructive development. But if there's still small things, like this with travel expenses, that we can fix, we'll do it. These are small things and small barriers, which can be enough for people to stay at home. Many of these – I know some of them – have unfortunately come into a situation where they sit at home and do not get out. They don't have money, they go to Nav, and that's how they get into this bad development, because they're not understood, because they feel that they're not being respected, or because the barriers have become too high. Everything that's been explained here is good, but if there's still little things that can be corrected, we'll do it. If there's a need for a bill change related to this with travel expenses, we'll do something about it. My request to the Council of State is: come back to Stortinget with a proposal, and then we'll do something about it, so that we clear this out of the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2192	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2206	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s study on whether we make good use of research infrastructure in Norwegian regions of the Arctic. The background is that Norway wants to be a leading polar research nation and that research efforts should be strengthened. To this end, the use of the infrastructure is coordinated and adequate. Norwegian research activities and Norwegian research bases at Svalbard shall also be instruments to support national interests in Svalbard in general and to achieve different objectives in the Arctic. The aim of the study has been to assess whether the research infrastructure in the Arctic is being exploited adequately and in line with the Storting decisions and assumptions. The following research infrastructures have been investigated: the New Ålesund Research Village, the Norwegian Polar Institute Research Station, the Air Measurement Station, the Marine Laboratory and the New Ålesund geodesi observatory and the North Lys observatory and the EISCAT radar in Longyearbyen. In addition, research vessels carrying out operations in the Arctic are included. The study has been carried out for the period 2006 to 2013. Norway’s research activities at Svalbard are important to support the overall objectives of svalbard policy and to meet the various objectives of Norwegian presence. Internationally, Norway has long been regarded as one of the world’s leading nations in polar research. Norway ranked as No in 2009–2010. 3 in research on the Arctic, according to report 3/12 Norwegian polar research. Lack of use of infrastructure may have consequences for the follow-up of the main objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy and, in particular, the objective of maintaining Norwegian communities on the island group, as well as weakening Norway’s position as a leading research nation in the Arctic, and making knowledge-based management of the polar regions more difficult. An overall committee has noted that the Riksrevision in this management audit report states that the development ‘is not in line with the conduct of the Innst. [[...]] S. [[2008-2009]] 336 Regarding the study’s mention of Norwegian research activity, it is noted that the external characteristics of research activity, such as: published articles in scientific journals and further citations are not an exact measure of successful research. However, it is worrying that Norway, as a significant contributor to Arctic polar research, does not appear to have as much scientific influence as could be expected. The Committee has also noted that the number of registered Norwegian research days in the New Ålesund research village has fallen by 700, corresponding to 14 p.m., and that the decline in the research day at the marine laboratory is reduced by 90 p.m. and in both cases we are talking about the period 2008–2013. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision’s opinion that the development of Norwegian research activity and the presence in New Ålesund is unfortunate. There is no overall overview of the exploitation of research infrastructures in the Arctic or information on the extent of the funding of Norwegian polar research. In the case of research vessels, the Committee points out that four out of five are close to or over their expected life expectancy, which is estimated to be 30 years. This may mean that they meet to a lesser extent the current requirements for modern research facilities, and thus are not time-consuming for the receipt of new scientific equipment, and that operational safety is also impaired by more demanding maintenance and increasing problems of access to spare parts and equipment. A Joint Committee states that a new ice-going vessel should be replaced at the moment of their decommissioning and that the nature of the fleet together gives reason to fear adverse effects on marine research if no plan for the replacement of the older vessels is drawn up. An overall committee points out that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries considers the degree of utilisation of the vessels to be satisfactory and that data collection is not significantly affected by the number of days taken. Nevertheless, the Committee would stress the need for a renewal plan, since the investments that would have to be made would require resources, and it would, of course, also take time from decisions to replace the older vessels with new ones and to the new ones that are actually operational. The risk that a failure to plan for fleet renewal in the Arctic could have a negative impact on marine research is imminent, thereby also weakening our ability to monitor both fishing resources and to follow up on any climate change. In the light of the above, I would recommend the Committee's proposal to operate some of the recommendations made by the Riksrevision. The proposals for decisions are as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider measures to increase the use of research infrastructure in Svalbard, including measures for increased Norwegian research activity in the New Ålesund.’ And... ‘The Government is asked to assess the conditions that must be in place for research vessels in Arctic waters to comply in the future with the stated objectives of Norwegian marine research, fisheries management, climate monitoring and Arctic research.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2246	I want to start by telling you that when we were in the Business Committee in New Zealand in 2006, I was most likely impressed by the work that was – and was – done up there. The report also shows that Norway has had progress from research up there, and that they still have it, but that we have fallen down on the list, and that is a pity. In this matter, we in the Committee are some, both in comments and in proposals. We are some to ask the government to consider measures to increase the use of research infrastructure on Svalbard, including measures to increase Norwegian research activity in New Ålesund. We are also some of those who ask the government to consider what arrangements must be in place to ensure that the research vessel in Arctic waters in future conforms to the stated targets for Norwegian marine research, fisheries management, climate monitoring and Arctic research. It is a goal that Norway should be a leading polar research nation, that research efforts should be strengthened, and that we should coordinate the use of research infrastructure. And the aim of the National Audit Office's investigation has been to assess whether the research infrastructure in the Arctic is being exploited in a good way and is in line with the Stortinge's decisions and intentions, and to identify the reasons for any lack of exploitation. The national audit found that the research infrastructure at Svalbard can be better exploited, that the research infrastructure is used to a lesser extent now than before, and that the older research vessel does not meet today’s research needs. Norway's research activity on Svalbard is an important tool to support them in overcoming the objectives of svalbard policy and to meet the various objectives of Norwegian presence in the Arctic. Internationally, Norway has long been regarded as one of the leading nations in polar research, and it is a advantage that we must build on. In 2009-2010, Norway was ranked no. 3 in research on the Arctic, according to Report 3/12, «Norwegian Polar Research – Research on Svalbard», from the Norwegian Institute for Innovation, Research and Education. And in 2012 Norway is no. 17 on a relative citation index, where all Arctic polar research publications are included. But in 2010 we were actually no. 6 in a corresponding index. The size has expressed the wish that Norway should be a leading polar research nation and that the use of the infrastructure should be coordinated. Lack of use of infrastructure may have consequences for the follow-up to the main objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy and the specific objective of keeping Norwegian communities on the island, as well as the weakening of Norway’s position as a leading research nation in the Arctic, and the difficulty of a knowledge-based management of polar areas. Four out of five research vessels are close to – or over – their functional lifetime, which is actually expected to be 30 years old. It may mean that they are less compliant with current research facility requirements, that they are not time-consuming for the receipt of new scientific equipment, and that the reliability of operations is weakened by more required maintenance and increased problems with access to spare parts and equipment. There are currently no plans to replace the older research vessels, and it will take a long time to replace the old with new ones. To this end, the Committee asked the Government to assess the necessary arrangements for the future alignment of the research vessel in Arctic waters with the stated objectives of Norwegian marine research, fisheries management, climate monitoring and Arctic research.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2265	As the Committee points out, there is a broad political consensus on svalbard policy, and research and higher education is one of the main pillars of Norwegian activity and presence there. It is an objective that Norway should have a leading professional role in Svalbard, while developing Svalbard as a platform for international research cooperation in the Arctic. This is why it is an objective to increase coordination and make better use of the research infrastructure. Then we have to make sure that Norwegian research on Svalbard keeps volume and quality, that we have a good and thoughtful hosting policy for the international research environment, and that we develop and exploit the research infrastructure in a good way. That is what this debate is about. First a little about the overall picture: The big picture is that both Norwegian and foreign svalbard research have increased since the svalbard announcement came in 2008. It is the Norwegian activity that has increased most and is the largest. The construction of the University Centre on Svalbard has also been important for this. UNIS has become an important element of the swallowing society. Building and operating infrastructure in the Arctic is expensive. Therefore, good use is important and best done through national and international cooperation, where the most competent researchers share equipment and data with each other. Most of the Norwegian infrastructure at Svalbard is well exploited, but there is room for improvement, especially at a few of the sites in the New Ålesund. I'll come back to this later. Research infrastructure is also a focus of research policy. The Research Council plays a central role in providing funds for important equipment investments and for research using the equipment. As far as Svalbard is concerned, the Research Council has for several years been demanding the sharing of data from swallow-bard projects that they support. In addition, the use of Norwegian infrastructure is one of several criteria when the Council selects which applications are to be granted. The Ministry of Knowledge invited in 2007 an ambitious project called SIOS –Svalbard Integrated Arctic Earth Observation System. There is an international, Norwegian-led cooperation on the research infrastructure at Svalbard, where the aim is for researchers from Norwegian and foreign institutions to make their own research facilities and data available to each other. The Norwegian authorities have not yet taken a decision on – or how – we will establish this. It has a potential for scientific innovation, increased use of infrastructure and improved coordination and transparency between institutions and researchers from different countries. So to the New Ålesund, which the Riksrevision has put on a special search light. New Ålesund has developed into an attractive Norwegian research village with an international character. Research institutes from ten countries have a station at Kings Bay AS. This has happened after the Norwegian invitation, in line with the leaders of the svalbard policy. As the Committee points out, there has been some decline in Norwegian use of the infrastructure in New Ålesund in recent years. Infrastructure is, of course, a means and not a target in itself, but a decline in the use of infrastructure is unfortunate – because it can weaken Norwegian presence and professional leadership in the research village, and because costly facilities should be used as best as possible. At the same time, nice news from Kings Bay AS – which is also the responsibility of the Minister of Industry: 2014 will be a record year for research activity, the Norwegian activity will increase, and international cooperation will increase under Norwegian leadership. Kings Bay AS can also tell us that the University Centre of Svalbard has begun to use the marine laboratory's study offerings, and that Norwegian and foreign researchers use the laboratory in winter time to study life in the sea in the dark. The Polar Institute wishes to be able to use the marine laboratory for marine acidification research. This is promising for the future, but there is also great variation in use – it may be unpredictable. Having said that, I agree that it is important to keep up with the development of the New Ålesund. A good and balanced development of Kings Bay AS that owns and facilitates in the New Ålesund is an important svalbard policy objective. The Norwegian activity and the Norwegian leadership are important. The responsibility for Kings Bay AS lies, as already mentioned, with the Minister of Industry. I know that she's busy facilitating it in an appropriate way. Finally, I would like to comment on the question of research vessels. This is to a large extent a portfolio that lies with other government councils, and I am therefore asking for an understanding that I do not have detailed knowledge of the matter. The vessels surveyed are used for fisheries management in different waters, for environmental monitoring, for research and for teaching. They are owned by several institutions, including the Marine Research Institute, the University of Tromsø and the Polar Institute. The fleet is – as has also been pointed out here – ageing. At the same time, it's okay to be aware that new, interesting methods are being used to collect data with buoys, drones, acoustics, satellites, gliders, etc. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries reports that they are now asking the Institute of Marine Research to review future methods and alternatives for data collection and to assess the need for equipment, including vessels. In that case, they shall also see this in the context of the capacity of industry as a vessel and a report shall be available by 1 July 2015. The Committee asks the Government to consider the needs that should underpin future ship needs. In the context of the report I mentioned, assessments of marine data collection needs, methods and equipment will be made. There will be an important basis for assessing ship needs in the future. I would also like to end by mentioning that in 2017 we will receive the new ice-going research vessel “Kronprins Haakon”, which will mean a great boost for Norwegian marine research, fisheries management and climate monitoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2299	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox Case No. 10–13 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2349	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 10-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2355	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2442	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee on II. The Left and the Left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2457	It shall be heard on the position of the Committee in relation to I and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2467	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2477	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2485	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 to 3 and points 5, by Geir S. Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left 6, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party The President recalls that proposal No. 4 was not presented. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to ensure that the national transport plan prioritises the establishment of collective coverage in new and established housing and economic areas and that the conservation of cultivated land is not a factor in the development of interest.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2511	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to intensify the national policy provision for a stoppage of purchasing centres so that it can only be planned for new shopping centres in urban centres, urban centres and relief areas at public nodes.’ The central party has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2528	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the national transport plan prioritises the development of transport systems that are necessary to turn the development pattern towards central public hubs in cities and agglomerations.’ The Labour Party has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2545	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to ensure that, in the interests of soil protection, the environment, the quality of life and social capital, more dense and higher levels of population are required, in particular around key collective nodes.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to propose a scheme in which the State enters into committed partnerships with the municipalities for the development of public transport.» The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals. The President will state that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2743	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2753	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2809	First of all, the Committee's decision to refer to the third paragraph of Section 106 of Section I. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2824	The other paragraphs and paragraphs under I and II are then added.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2834	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2844	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e2897	Case No. 10–13 are the second reading of legal acts, Act No. 2 up to and including Nos. 5th@item: inlistbox There is no comment on any of the cases. Bill No. 2 up to and including Nos. 5 is therefore approved for second time treatment and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-25.ana.ud843e3058	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
