ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e133	Four permit applications are available: from the representative Anna Ljunggren on parental leave from 6 January to 19 June 2015 from the representative Roy Steffensen on parental leave from 6 January to 13 April 2015 from the representative Kent Gudmundsen on parental leave from 6 January to 9 April 2015 from the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on leave in days 6 and 7 January 2015 to take part in an information course at the Swedish Defence College On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: For the Province of East Agder: Terje Østebø Eikin 6-7. January For Nordland County: Tone-Helen Toften 6 January-19. June For Rogaland County: Kari Raustein 6 January–9. April For Troms County: Kristian Støback Wilhelmsen January 6-9. April
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e179	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e182	On behalf of Hans Fredrik Grövan, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and signed, I present a proposal for a representative to strengthen the Norwegian travel industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e187	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e190	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself that long-term asylum children who have been sent out in the period 1 January 2014 and until today, 18 December 2014, must be re-tested in accordance with new legislation. On behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure immediately that practices for Afghan families referred to internally are in line with and follow the recommendations of UNHCR and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, UDIs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e197	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e211	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e220	In the committee's position, we give initial consideration to the principle of our relationship with the Sameting and together as indigenous peoples. We point out that the state of Norway was established in the territory of two people, Samer and Nordmen, and that both people have the same right and right to develop their culture and language. It is also set out in the Basic Law § 108. We also reiterate the government's emphasis on the independent role of the Commonwealth as a political body and as the spokesperson of the Sami People's Party for the development of language, culture and social life. It is gratifying that a unanimous committee is behind these comments. If we go back to the previous year's treatment of the Sameting's Annual Report, this has not been the case. The Progress Party has then chosen to stand outside of the corresponding notes. It's positive that we now stand together. Substantial transfers are made to the State budget for Sami purposes. For 2013, the Sametinget was allocated 400 million. NOK, of which the operating costs of the Sameting amounted to 124 million. kr. The merger has a problem with the current budgetary arrangements allocated by several departments, and the communication shows that this will be discussed between the Sameting and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. In a majority comment, we ask that the follow-up of this work be discussed in the next year's big-time report on the activities of the Sameting. The annual report of the Joint Undertaking states that major parts of the common policy are being developed through the consultation mechanism between the Sameting and State authorities. The merger indicates that the consultation obligation under international law includes both the government and the Stortinget, but that the Stortinge little follows this up. The Municipal Committee held consultations with the Assembly during the budgetary procedure of the year. I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the letter from the President-in-Office of the Council to the Scientific Committees of the United Kingdom, where he stresses the importance of follow-up to the consultation system in all relevant expert committees. Strengthening the use of Sami languages is central to the Sameting. ‘It shall be possible to use Sami and Sami shall be visible in the public space’, the annual report states. In this context, the Committee points out that the Community reform may lead to specific challenges in municipalities with different decisions on bilingualism. The government says that Sami language users should not get worse as a result of changes in the municipality classification. The majority of the Committee emphasises that this must be more than a voluntary statement. Where necessary, special financial contributions must be provided. Its aim is to increase the number of jobs in the Sami cultural industries. The majority of the Committee, all except the governmental parties, emphasises the importance of the realisation of the new museum building Saemien Sijte on Snåsa. This project is a lighthouse for Southern Sami culture. There are completed and approved plans for new buildings on Snåsa. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we've spent 10 million. kr as a start-up grant. In the now adopted State budget for 2015, the majority have committed 3 million. NOK, which, as I understand it, will be used for redesigning. That means a further postponement of construction. It is regrettable that decisions on appropriations for this project have gone so far in time, and it is particularly regrettable that development is now being launched into new rounds and uncertainties. The merger prioritised four industrial policy fields in 2013. These are the framework conditions for primary industries, attractive communities, cultural industries and value creation and start-ups. The combination expresses concern for negative development in Sami areas with population decline and low birth rates. I believe that industrial policy needs to be given an increased focus in the interaction between state authorities and the Sameting. In this way, the representatives of the United Nations at the hearing complained that the cuts in general development funds in the food agreements last year would cause major problems. For the center part, we've compensated this by decomposing 5 million. kr earmarked for economic development. Primary industries are struggling with the fact that the effectiveness of preventive measures in predator management has been found to be of little benefit to the reindeer industry. I know this from my own area. Lack of control of predatory strains is a threat to the conservation of southern Sami reindeer and culture. As the rapporteur on the subject of the Annual Report for 2013 by The Storting, I am pleased to say that the communication shows a comprehensive and good work from Sametinget to safeguard the interests and social life of the Sami people, and I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e241	Since its opening in the autumn of 1989, more tasks have been assigned to it and more powers have been given to it in a number of areas that are important to the Sami population. It is good and right that there has been such a development. It is noted in the Communication that the Sameting is the government’s main dialogue partner on common policy issues and that all departments are responsible for monitoring the implementation of the State policy towards co-operatives in their respective sectors, but that the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation has a special responsibility for coordination. In its 2013 Communication, the Assembly notes that the current budgetary system with multi-ministerial allocations does not meet the objective of a comprehensive common policy, nor does its current budgetary system contribute to strengthening the legitimacy of the Cohesion Fund. It is therefore good that the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation should address the issue and look at other solutions that can work better – of course in consultation with the Sametinge itself. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, requests that this work be referred to in the current Annual Report, i.e. the Annual Report we receive for 2014. Then it is important to note that an overall committee stresses the responsibility of government and the Storting for the implementation of the consultation agreements between state authorities and the Sameting. Furthermore, the Communication highlights the important role of the Sámi Sameting in developing and maintaining the Sami language, and points out that the actions of the Sámi Action Plan have contributed positively to this. The Committee also points out that changes in the municipal structure may lead to challenges in municipalities with different decisions on bilingualism, and assumes that in this context Sami language users will not be disadvantaged as a result of any community mergers. This, as I understand it, must be interpreted to mean that decisions on bilingualism are passed on more or less automatically in a possible new municipal structure. Another important area affected by the notification is Sami culture. It is underlined that it is important and enriching for Norway to take care of Sami culture, Sami traditions and Sami languages. Here the Norwegian authorities have a strong overall responsibility in cooperation and understanding with the Sametinget. In this context, it should also be mentioned that it will be of great importance that the building of the museum for Saemien Sijte be realised, but I note that the government's draft budget for 2015 did not provide funds for the construction of this. Furthermore, it is worth noting that the government should ensure a good and predictable framework for tourism development and see that Arctic agriculture has the potential for increased value creation. This makes it difficult for the government in its proposal for a State budget to cut the funds for Arctic agriculture, cut the funds for the development of Sami languages and culture, cut the press support for Sami newspapers, and cut the funds for food development. The Labour Party has other priorities, as we have shown in our alternative draft budget. I'm going to finish the article by saying that the 2013 Communication on the activities of the Sameting provides a good picture of the challenges and tasks that Sameeting has and that the Sameting has its legitimate place. It's just repeating, and reminding ourselves, that government and greatness have a great responsibility to give Sameting the working conditions and the economy that enable them to carry out their important societal task. In the end, I want to use the opportunity to wish the Sametinget and their representatives a very good Christmas and a good new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e262	The 2013 Annual Report of the Sameting shows a broad and focused activity to assert Sami interests and Sami culture. The unification plays an important role as the custodian of the Sami People's Group's independent responsibility for developing its language, culture and society. The 2013 Annual Communication to the Sámetinge shows that the Sámetinge prioritises four industrial policy areas. There are framework conditions for primary industries, attractive communities, cultural industries and value creation and re-establishment. In the big news, the government stresses that the Sameting as a People's Chosen Body has great freedom, and that the government is therefore not responsible for the Sametinge's political activity or decision The Sametinge does as a political body. In the main message, it is also pointed out that procedures for consultations between state authorities and the Sameting are one of the most important frameworks for ensuring that their international rights of participation in matters relating to them are combined. The Government has decided that the consultation mechanism should be maintained, but that there are still challenges in the interaction between the Sameting and State authorities. The merger has a clear objective of increasing and strengthening the use of Sami languages. It shall be possible to use Sami, and Sami shall be visible in the public space, known as the Annual Report. The work on strengthening the Sami languages has been a priority task over a longer period of time. It applies to Sami languages in general, but it is of extra significance to the small language groups such as Southern Sami and Lulesamian. The government’s main message shows that the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation has reduced a public selection to look at both the Samian language law and the issue of sharing responsibilities and further work on the language. The merger has also suggested members to this selection. The government also underlined in the big news that Sami language users should not get worse as a result of changes in the municipality classification. Its aim is to increase the number of jobs associated with Sami culture and culture-based industries. One thing our government inherits after former red-green governments is Saemien Sijte. Saemien Sijte accepts operating support from Sametinget's budget both as a cultural house and as a museum. The big message shows that the biggest challenge for Saemien Sijte is that the museum does not have the building standard required to be an attractive meeting place and exhibition window for Sami culture. The main message shows that funding for the new building of Saemien Sijte has been a high priority in the Sameting for several years. It has been working on new buildings for Saemien Sijte since the 1980s. The pilot project was completed in 2011, but the project still lacks funding from the state. The cost of construction is between 200 million. NOK 250 and SEK 250 million. kr, and that's probably the main reason why the red-green government didn't start to build. A note from the Government Party indicates that the scope of the construction of museum buildings for Saemien Sijte will be returned to the ordinary budgetary management. In the 2015 budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Cooperation Party, there are 3 million. kr for the design of a new pre-project to reduce the development of Saemien Sijte. This matter has been pending for many years under the red-green government because of the large costs of the project. Now a few more realistic costs can be found in the project, and this also increases the chances of realization. The annual report from the Sameting also shows that the effectiveness of preventive measures before predator management has been shown to be of little benefit to the reindeer industry. It is shown that this challenge is a threat to the conservation of particular southern Sami reindeer and culture. This Annual Report is for 2013. That's to say that it's from the last year with the red-green government, and the criticism that's in this, belongs to the previous government. I have great confidence that this government will pursue a predatory policy that takes better care of southern Sami domestic operations than one saw with the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e281	It's a pleasure to congratulate the Sameting at the 25th anniversary of this year. The merger is an important institution that is involved in upholding the Constitution § 108, which obliges state authorities to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and social life. The conspiracy is a popularly elected body with great autonomy. The Government is therefore not responsible for the political activities of the Confederation or for the decisions taken by the Federation. It is important and enriching for Norway to take care of the Sami culture, Sami traditions and Sami languages. Samemen are the indigenous peoples of Norway and, as such, have a requirement for special cultural protection under international law. The Norwegian authorities have a overall responsibility to help preserve and further develop Sami culture in dialogue and consultation with the Sameting. Since we could recently hear that the Party Secretary of Sweden, Björn Söder, said that Jews and Samaritans can live in Sweden, but that they are not Swedish, we see that the need to take care of the interests of one another is highly relevant and important. I am pleased that we in the budget increased the appropriations by 2 million. kr for Sami purposes, and that we secured VAT exemption and press support for Sami news media. In the annual report, it is gratifying to see that the Sameting is a high priority for cultural purposes. Through active use of economic instruments through cooperation with actors working for Sami cultural development, and through dialogue with central, regional and local authorities, the Sameting works to preserve and develop the diversity of Sami culture. The Christian People's Party will highlight the importance of the realization of the new museum building for Saemien Sijte. This will be of great importance to the Southern Sami culture. In the long run, the Christian People's Party also wants a new Sami national scene, with a new theatre building, in Kautokeino. The election participation in the 2013 merger election was 66.9 p.m., which is good. The selection results also show that there is an even gender balance among the representatives of the Sameting. The challenge is to involve Sami youth to enter the population, so that they can vote in the merger elections. I also want to encourage samars to enter the masculinity and engage in co-political issues in order to preserve and develop the identity and culture of their co-operatives. Finally, one of the last issues mentioned in the Annual Report is the consultation procedure between the Sameting and State authorities. Both the government and the Stortinget have a responsibility for complying with the consultation system. It may therefore be useful to recall the letter of the Grandfather to the Scientific Committees in Stortinget from May 2013. Among other things, the President of the Grand Duchy underlines: the professional committees must pay particular attention to the consultation of the Sameting when taking decisions relevant to the Sami interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e300	We are today going to have the annual report for the Sameting up for treatment here in the hall. The whole thing is an important body for our indigenous people. What is also important to note, which is also mentioned in the Communication and which has been addressed by many, is, of course, the challenges of bilingualism. In my way, I would say that this is something we are aware of now before the municipal merger, and when that attention is there, I don't think this is the biggest problem. But of course it's up to us to be aware of it, because language is especially important in terms of identity. The Communication also deals with and discusses cultural memories, which are very important in terms of recording where there has been Sami activity in the past. Culture and industry are closely linked to the Sami identity, and it is therefore also gratifying – although not the representative Lauvås had it with him – that we actually put newspapers in place to receive the same state aid as last year. I expect that the representative Lauvås will also be happy about it. Otherwise, there are several who have been within the Southern Sami, and in my area, it is southern Sami culture and activity. Therefore, it is gratifying that some parties, after they came out of government, begin to burn for Saemien Sijte as well. That's why, together with the Christian People's Party, we actually got the government to look at the project again, and we have faith that we can get it through, which unfortunately wasn't prioritised in the last eight years. As I said, the midterms are a minority in the minority and are particularly important to take into account in the future. What's also noticing is that this is an indigenous population that we have a special responsibility to take care of. In articles before me, it has been pointed out how some groups in Sweden view this. I find it very regrettable that our neighboring country and a large party that emphasizes it. In this room — and it is also a pleasure in this communication — there is a cohesive growth that clearly sees the needs for the challenges of Sami culture, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e311	The State of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples: the North and the Sami. I choose to start with the sail if this is an annual report for the Sametinget for 2013, precisely because in the anniversary year of the Constitution we have discussed the position of our partners also in the Constitution, and that is important. The Constitution states that the state authorities have a responsibility to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami peoples. Many of us believe that there should have been indigenous peoples, because that is the concept used in the ILO Convention on which Norway is obliged. It was voted down in the Stortinget, and the proposal will be re-examined, because we believe that it will be the only correct wording in the Constitution if we are to ensure that this country is established in the territory of two peoples and that they are equivalent. I'm glad that the representative Breek Liones from the Christian People's Party took up what's happening in Sweden now, not because it's like this in Norway, but because there are such forces, and that's exactly why it's so important to get established in our constitution that indigenous peoples are a concept that we fully recognise in the Constitution, and that we recognise that we are two people who have exactly the same rights. That is what the discussion in Sweden is about. I am afraid that these prejudices also exist in Norway, not as a justification from those who have thought otherwise about the Constitution, but we, who believe it, must make it clear. So the whole thing is very important. I think we all have to be concerned about strengthening the Sameness as a democratic body. Therefore, it is important that the Storting has a much closer, continuous collaboration with the Sameting. We have established procedures for that, and we're trying to implement it, but I think that we can all, certainly also the party groups, cooperate more closely with the Sameting in a more systematic way, just to strengthen the democratic part of it. During the consultations on this year's budget, there were important issues that I believe the Stortinget and the government need to discuss, among other things. that we base most of our policies on sector responsibility. It is the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation that has the primary responsibility, but otherwise it is very much sectoral responsibility. The Ministry of Culture is responsible for culture, the Ministry of Education is responsible for education, etc. At least from the point of view of the Sameting, this may seem to make some of the Sami interests drown a little bit each year in the fight for the budget heads, that is, they never get high enough. This is a common way of working in very many areas, it's called mainstreaming internationally, and we think it's sectoral responsibility. But I want us to ask ourselves questions about this taking good care of the Sami interests. As in very many other areas, this – when it comes to chalk – is about the distribution of money. In a few areas, the Committee shares this view. There is the Progress Party and the Right Party, i.e. the Government Parties, on the one hand and all the others on the other. By and large, it's about distributing money. We also see that in this year's budget, where, on the part of the government, it is cut off on very important Sami issues: culture, not least in Sami newspapers, which I believe are one of the most important democratic bodies in existence. If you're going to be able to keep your language and culture, you're going to have newspapers that work well in your mother tongue. Digital learning materials are very important, and not least legal aid. These issues have also been cut off in the proposal from the government to the budget of the year. It shows that there's a difference between how to pay attention to it. If these interests are to be properly emphasised, it is extremely important that they do not drown in the budget priorities of each department. This is why the consultation system is also so important, and it is important that this should now be properly reviewed in order to see that the extra costs of bilingualism in all municipalities are adequately compensated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e328	It is said that the quality of a society can be measured by looking at how it treats its minorities. The attitude shows that there is a broad political consensus to continue the protection of indigenous peoples and minorities. It testifies that there is a strong desire to take care of and respect the diversity of our society. This view of value is also reflected in the Health Declaration, where the government says: ‘It is important and enriching for Norway to take care of Sami languages, culture and traditions.’ In my conversations with the jointing president in the last year, I have gained insight into the width and scope of the tasks that Sameting is working on every day. For us who are not the same, and who do not know Sami culture so well, it may be difficult to see all the shades of common language, culture and tradition. As a group of elected bodies, the Sameting knows variations in the Sami community and also has knowledge of what is perceived as the main challenges in the different Sami communities. The merger is an experienced and competent body, with which I feel it is useful to have dialogue with policy-making. In June 2014, the Stortinget agreed to carry out a municipal reform. The aim of the community reform is to reduce and increase the number of municipalities with strong professional environments and borders adapted to the population's place of residence, place of work and everyday life. The work of creating larger municipalities raises various issues about the management area of Sami languages, as the committee addresses in the referral. A problem raised by Sametinget and several municipalities is how to deal with a situation where a municipality in today's administrative area is merged with a municipality outside the administrative area or, where appropriate, shared. The government is committed to taking care of Sami languages, and we will stress that Sami language users should not get worse as a result of changes in the municipal classification. I would like to add that the ambition should be that they should come out better after the municipal reform. In its 2012 Communication on the Language of the Sameting, the Sameting highlighted the need to set up a sample of Sami languages. On 19 September this year, the Government reduced a sample to look at legislation, measures and schemes for the Sami languages in Norway. The selection shall include, inter alia: assess the current regime of a Sami language management area, inclusion procedures and whether a more flexible regulatory framework should be introduced. Current solutions shall be assessed in the light of the ongoing work on municipal reform. The Government will await the recommendation of the Committee of Languages before taking a concrete decision on whether, and to what extent, the legislation on the management of Sami languages should be amended. The Committee shall submit its proposal by 15 February 2016. The government is committed to maintaining the consultation procedures between the Sameting and the State authorities – because it is important to succeed in the common policies to facilitate good dialogue venues. Through dialogue, we develop understanding, knowledge and respect for each other's views. This will give us a better basis for decision-making when problems need to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e347	I think it's nice that the Council of State addresses this with Sami language and the importance of it. He is involved in the municipal reform in view of how this should be handled at a possible municipal merger where municipalities with bilingualism are associated with municipalities that do not have it. I think, as I said, that there are good signals from the Council of State on how this should work, but I still want to challenge the Council of State to say something more specific about how this should be followed up, and that, in order to bring about such community mergers, you will not have long debates on whether to continue bilingualism or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e355	I thank you for the question. This is a matter that we are very concerned about, and as I stressed in my post, the ambition and goal should be that the Sami-speaking not only should come out as well, but that they should get out better. That's also why we've given the Language Committee the task of looking specifically at these questions. We are very much concerned with the Sami languages. We have also stressed that statesmen who have language management areas should be in contact with the Sameting in their work, and we will now look at both what comes from the Language Committee and temporary solutions, if necessary in the transition to the Municipal Reform. Let me just finally add that we're busy strengthening Sami languages in many areas. Last week we got a Sámi keyboard for mobile phones in place. It will mean a lot to Sami youth, who can now use Sami characters even when using mobile phones.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e364	The progress party in government has been at peace with Sametinget, and that's very good. At the same time, however, it has been raised beyond any doubt that the Right-Fremskrit party government has given the country a new direction in terms of common policies. We have seen this year that the Minister for Fisheries has refused to consult with the Sameting on new king-crab policies, we see cuts for the Sameting and Sami purposes, even though the Christian People's Party and the Left have corrected some of the worst cuts, and we also see a municipal economy that puts Sami language kindergartens and schools under pressure. But the smallest thing I think is that you put down the Rechtshelpskontoret Inner Finnmark, which is a Sami legal aid offer – the only thing that exists in the country, I think. It is in stark contrast to the Council of State formulations that the quality of a society is characterised by how to treat its minorities. Has this cut any professional justification, or is it just a balancing to give room to tax cuts for those who have the most from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e371	There were a lot of problems into one short line. Let me just make the basic point that the common policies which have a broad majority in the Grand Duchy are also being pursued under this government. I would like to add that, in some areas, we have strengthened common policies. We got back to work on the Nordic Commonwealth Convention, we've set up a new office building for the Sameting, and we've set up a language selection to strengthen the Sami languages. Then I am concerned that we should both continue and strengthen the consultation system. This is also the reason why, together with the Sameting, we are now going to provide a seminar for state authorities, precisely to increase the knowledge of good consultation arrangements between different government authorities. My experience is that it has very good effect. As far as the concrete question is concerned, Helga Pedersen knows that it's under another state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e382	When the government cuts into samonic offers and kisses for samonic purposes, when the Minister for Fisheries refuses to consult with the Sameting on a very central issue of fisheries policy, when the government has just set up a climate council without being represented or invited to participate, it is not a continuation of the policy on which there has been broad political agreement. In these areas, we strongly disagree. Then I record that the Minister of State refers to the fact that when the provision of legal aid in Inner Finnmark is closed, it belongs to another Council of State. Yes, that's right, but I thought the co-minister had a responsibility to coordinate the government's common policies. Doesn't today's municipal minister and co-minister take that responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e389	I am very surprised at the strong rhetoric that the representative Helga Pedersen uses. I have consultation meetings with the Sametinget, and I am not meeting that kind of rhetorical and powerful attacks from the Sametinget, rather, on the contrary, this government and this council have a good dialogue with the Sametinget, and we are also raising important issues of common policy. There will, of course, be specific issues in which the government and the assembly disagree, and of course there are also specific issues in which the government and the opposition may disagree, but the main line is that the policy relating to the co-operatives and minorities is a policy which is being pursued and in several areas it will also be strengthened. I think these are very specific issues that we should address and which we should discuss, among other things. hate feelings and discrimination. There are important questions that I'm in dialogue with the Sameting about. These are questions that I would also like to think of discussing with the different parties of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e394	With regard to the Sameting approach to the refusal of the Minister for Fisheries to consult on the policy of king crabs, this is something that has been very strongly reacted to by the Council of Consensus. I have also noticed that there has been a rather central discussion when the Sameting has been met in plenary, so that criticism cannot be unknown to the government. In that case, it is surprising that the Minister of State has not brought it with him. I record that the Minister of State will not answer any questions about the Indre Finnmark Legal Aid Office. So it's a common legal aid offer. There are some of them who have had the biggest problems in Norwegian society in getting their rights promoted in the justice system. I suspect that the Minister of State may not at all be aware that this offer is now being made. Will the Minister of Local Affairs pursue this further in the government and take his share of the responsibility for promoting his rights through the judicial system, and get the help you need to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e401	The Council of State knows of course that question, but, as I stressed, it is under another Council of State. The representative Pedersen should have such a long experience from this house that she also knows that such questions are commented on by the responsible state council. I am very concerned that the consultation system should be further developed and strengthened. In very many questions we have very good consultation. I am pleased that it is also taken seriously in Stortinget, and that the Grand President has stressed that the committees will follow it up. There will be some areas where there may be different views as to whether or not it is a topic on which to consult. I would assume that in the eight preceding years too, when the Workers' Party sat in the government offices, there were some issues in which there was disagreement with the Sameting. It's part of the democratic system – we work together where we can cooperate, and then there will be some areas where you disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e408	The Communication states that the government is committed to taking care of the Sami language and will stress that Sami language users should not get worse if there is a change in the municipal classification. The Council of State was very clear that, on the contrary, they would get better out of a possible community merger. That's very good, and reassuring to hear. At the same time, I get a little worried when I see that the government parties will not be involved in a comment that the rest of the committee is behind, which says that financial contributions must be made to prevent Sami language users from getting worse at any local merger. If there are larger municipalities where a small part of the municipality today is bilingual and the rest is not, we are absolutely sure that if they get an offer as good as it is today, it will amount to large extra costs. How will the Council of State follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e415	Let me first stress that I am very pleased with the strong commitment that is for the Sami languages of the Stortinget. That means we have a common platform. Now we've put down the Sami language selection. It's going to work wide. One of the tasks relates to the municipal reform and how two municipalities deal with the situation when one is in the Sami language management area and the other is not. But there's only one part of the sample's work. I am concerned that we should work widely to strengthen the Sami languages. So we're going to start by waiting for the setting they're coming up with. We are also working on different transitional arrangements – if necessary. In addition, we have allocated money to the Sameting, so that the Sameting can also participate actively in the work on municipal reform. I registered that they had a constructive dialogue about it in the Sameting a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e426	For the first time in history, we have a party in government that says they're going to put the whole thing down. It's special, and there are traces of it in the budget that the government put forward. In my article I addressed this with sector responsibility, and we got it demonstrated here just now. When the Council of State receives a question of free legal aid, which is so crucial for people who need to have their rights fulfilled – they have legal rights – the Council of State answers that he cannot answer, because it is the responsibility of another Council of State. That's exactly what I said in my speech, that there may be a need for more coordination of this policy, so that one State Council or one Department that is really responsible and takes proper responsibility for coordination – not only does it gather together the recordings that come from the other departments, but it ensures that the objectives we have for common policies are actually implemented in all budgets, in all departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e431	Let me first say that the representative Karin Andersen could also enjoy the broad political consensus that is in the Storting and between magnification and government on the same political issues. I think it's a force. It gives security and strength to the work that we're going to do. I have dialogue with the Sameting on how to deal with these issues in the future, whether it is the allocation of appropriations over the budget of each department, or whether to pool it. It is a problem that both Sametinget and I agree have advantages and disadvantages. It may be beneficial for these appropriations to be brought together in one budget, but it is also a strength for co-political issues to be enshrined in the Ministry of Knowledge, in the Ministry of Health, in the Ministry of Justice and in the other departments. So here it's benefits and disadvantages, and we're now in a phase where we're discussing it with the Sametinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e439	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e444	I want to start with praise because the Sametinget has implemented an incredibly accurate and good campaign called ‘Speak Sami tea’, where 24 young language ambassadors have volunteered to make Sami languages visible, among others. in social media. It's very happy, and it's very happy to see a lot going forward, for example. that common - language parents speak more samish to their children. It is then essential that the school follow up with Sami digital learning materials in order to continue the language stimulation at home. There we see that it is a great aftertaste, and such a lift cannot be taken by the Sameeting alone. Supmi is rich in resources. It also means that you can experience conflicts around how to exploit them and how to use the land. Mineral goods are a recurring problem because of the disagreement with today’s mineral law. Norway has received a clear recommendation from Germany when reviewing Norway’s periodic report to the Human Rights Council on 7 July to strengthen the dialogue with indigenous peoples affected by the increased mineral activity in the north, with the aim of finding a solution acceptable to both parties. On 20 August, Norway responded to the recommendation by accepting it, and that means that Norway has internationally promised to intensify the dialogue in order to reach agreement on mineral activity in the north. I think it is a timely question to ask how this will be followed up further by Norway. Otherwise, we have some unsolved issues about culture and history. SV is happy about all the money that has moved in the right direction and to the Sami conditions in the budget round that has been, but we see that there are several unresolved issues. Among other things, the East Sami museum, the thousand-year-old site, is still open. When can it be expected that the locals in Neiden and the eastern samples will be able to use their historic buildings? I also wonder what thoughts lie around Ceavccageadgi, or Mortensnes, as the cultural heritage of the world. Would the government support this process at international level? It's important things, because being now is also about being his story, and if one is safe in his past, it will also be easier to secure his future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e453	I have lived very well with the Sameting over these 25 years, and I am also very proud to say that the Finnmark Workers' Party was a strong driver for establishing the Sameting in the years following the expansion of the Alta Watercourse. But unfortunately, the need for the whole thing is still being discussed. When representatives of the government party are allowed to go to Sametinget for the purpose of bringing down the Sameting, it is said. If today's government really believes that there is a need for the Sameting, it is expected that representatives of the Progress Party in government will soon take a settlement with their representatives with that kind of attitude. I also record that the representative Lødemel once again chose to look back on the last eight years and the failing common policy that has been pursued. I just want to say that I am proud of the policy we have pursued, also with the focus that we can improve in all areas, including in the area of common policies. The government claims that it will take special responsibility for the Sami language, and I also hear what the Council of State says here, but I think it is frightening that they once again chose to cut out the press support for Sami newspapers when they presented their draft budget. Fortunately, they were forced into place by the Christian People's Party and the Left. I think the big message is a good way of documenting the diversity of issues in which the whole thing is working. In several areas, we can only get better, as the debate and the lines here have also become visible. Purgatory is an area where the Sameting wants to have a greater responsibility. I think that's very wise, because they've been and are busy with the natural management on land and sea. Another issue I would like to raise here today, since we have the Council of State present, is that there are some unresolved issues regarding negotiations with Finland on the Tanavas Treaty. The local population, at least on the Norwegian side, believes that the traditional fishing grounds are closed and threatened by the number of tourists and the lack of regulation in tourist fishing, particularly on the Finnish side. I want to encourage the government to take seriously the input that has come from representatives of the Tanava Strip, in order to solve those challenges as soon as possible. I hope that the Council of State will take it into account in the further work, because it needs to be done quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e468	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e484	Yesterday it became known that the ESA, the EEA Surveillance Authority, has decided to refer Norway to the EFTA Court for an infringement of the EU Air Quality Directive. Thus, there is no longer just a procedure between Norway and ESA, because today, according to VG, ESA takes a decision to bring a case before the Court of Justice. Item No 1 for ESA in the case of Norway, the exceedances since 2008 of emissions of harmful NO2, nitrogen dioxide in Oslo. They've been growing. For 2013, NILU, the Norwegian Institute of Air Research, reported up to 50 pst. exceedance on average for the year. Oslo peaks, but also other cities, such as Bergen, Drammen, Stavanger and Trondheim, have greater or lesser exceedances. Norway itself has reported to ESA — according to a separate investigation — that there are no prospects of resolving this until 2025, as it now appears. The figures for this year – month by month – show that there are still significant exceedances. As late as yesterday, it was reported ‘red’ in Oslo, that it was clear above the limit values. This is serious because we are prepared to be convicted by the EEA Court and to receive sanctions, but most of all because it concerns approximately 50 % of the population. 100 000 people in Oslo and in many other cities, which are seriously harmful to health. Extensive studies from, among others: Oslo, Drammen and cities in other countries show an alarming increase in mortality after days of high local pollution of both NO2 and particulate matter, which in the professional language is called PM10, and the finest and most harmful is called PM2.5. One thing is increased mortality, but it's also about health-damaging pollution that causes more people to suffer severe plagues with asthma, allergies, chronic cough, colitis, bronchitis, cardiovascular diseases, heart attacks, metabolic diseases such as diabetes and morbid obesity. It can also affect the nervous system and foetal development. This is apparent from Report No. 9 from 2013 by the Swedish Institute for Public Health, which provides a very thorough summary of national and international studies. Everyone is probably in agreement that we need to have a better response to urban people thinking about their health, and to ESA, than just holding a rough course from today until 2025. When we are going to discuss new measures, we need to build on some facts. Firstly, the reason why emissions of NO2 and particulate matter have not decreased and, on the contrary, have also increased is that diesel-powered cars have been heavily favoured by the charging system since 2007, so that 75 pst. sales of new cars in the period 2008–2012 have been made by diesel-powered cars and are now sold about twice as much diesel as in Norway. Every gas station is a live advertising poster for this when you look at the prices. In urban traffic, a diesel-powered passenger car emits on average 25 times more NO2 than a petrol-powered car, according to NILU. And because of more incomplete combustion in diesel engines, these are now also responsible for most of the particulate emissions after many good measures have been implemented locally in terms of heavy-duty tyres, road-washing, replacing wood stoves, etc. So, when we've been focusing on diesel to bring down CO2 emissions, which is important, we've neglected the concern for local health-damaging pollution, i.e. NO2 and particulate matter – in cities. It's still as important to bring down climate emissions, but it has to go hand in hand that we get down the emissions of NO2 and particulate matter. Fact No. 2 is that it is goods and heavy goods transport that accounts for most of the NO2 emissions, i.e. 58 pst, while 24 pst. come from diesel-powered passenger cars, 11 pst. from buses and only 7 pst. from petrol-powered passenger cars. We must also bear that in mind when designing the most accurate and effective measures. We must also remember that the exceedances of the limit values of both NO2 and particulate matter are average, on a monthly and annual basis, and even though it is the most frequent in the winter months, they are spread throughout the year, depending on wind and weather conditions. So it does not help much just to add exceptional measures in a few days' time when the limit values are exceeded, because there are regular exceedances. Nor should we forget that many good measures have been implemented in Oslo and elsewhere until now: heavy-duty tyres, frequent road-washing, replacement of wood stoves, as mentioned, but also an increase in public transport, especially in Oslo, to 46 pst. of all passenger traffic. We have introduced a rush-time charge in Trondheim and Kristiansand, and the same has now been decided in Bergen City Council, but not yet in Oslo. The problem is that these good measures, which could otherwise have reduced local pollution, have not been implemented due to the large transition to diesel. As I said, much more is needed than exceptional measures in a few days with very high levels of pollution. Measures are needed to create a more fundamental transformation and to bring down the average pollution values in a stable manner. We need to implement measures that take time, such as major developments in rail and public transport, and measures that will work faster. To begin with, environmental and time-based toll charges are an action that will work in the very short term. It will be assumed that the person who drives the most polluting car in the rush time will have to pay the most. This will be less and less, and we will have a faster replacement of the car fleet, in terms of both passenger cars and other transport, for more environmentally friendly models. We have to remember that there are 2.5 million cars in Norway, of which only 34 000 are electric cars, even if we put a lot of money into it. Measures in the State budget aim at obtaining 10,000 hybrid cars. So we depend on very many of the 2.5 million standard cars being more environmentally friendly, cf. the EU classifies the car fleet from 1 to 6, where Euroclass 6 is the most environmentally friendly in terms of both climate and local emissions, and it shall be promising when it is too fully implemented, in particular in the case of goods and heavy goods vehicles. In order to link toll payments to emission classes, i.e. the introduction of an environmental tax on tolls, we at Stortinget have to provide a new legal basis for connecting motor vehicle registers and toll systems. The second measure I want to take to reduce local emissions is that we need to be able to introduce low-carbon zones into polluted urban areas, as has been done in a number of countries in Europe, for example. for approx. 50 urban areas in Germany, around 100 in Italy and in a number of other countries, such as the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden, etc., cf. a report from the Institute for Transport Economics, which came in 2012. The size must provide legal support for the municipalities to introduce such zones, and until now, the council and the government – when I asked about it in the spring session – will have to assess it. Fortunately, there is now an important and good representative proposal here in the Stortingen on low-emission zones, which I hope will be adopted. The third thing we should do is that when the government is going to have a review of the car tax system to make it greener, as the government has announced in the state budget, a NO2 component and a particulate matter component should come into play in a completely different and heavier way in the design of the charging system – precisely because we need to stimulate a transition to environmentally friendly cars, which have both low CO2 emissions and low local emissions of NO2 and particulate matter, which are called PM. The fourth thing we need to do is to find specific mechanisms and incentives to speed up the transition to new environmental technologies in the urban transport sector, where we are struggling with high pollution. The bus company Ruter in Oslo is a good example for other industries. They operate a process in which they shall use only low-emission and zero-emission buses by 2020. Already today, the emissions from the buses in Oslo have fallen a lot. Similar projects should also be launched in the transport of goods and the community should also contribute carrots – not just with whips. It is also possible to imagine a system of trans-shipment to a smaller and more environmentally friendly vehicle when the goods are to be transported in the last piece, i.e. into the receivers of the inner part of the city, which are the polluted urban areas. The last thing I'm going to mention right now is that of course we need to have a strengthened and wider development of public transport and rail solutions in the big cities. We need to see funding for this more in line with the financing of the necessary infrastructure in the rest of the country. There will be new speed and new power in these projects when the government parties have promised 50 pst. direct government funding of some specific projects, and the Workers' Party has said 70 pst. financing of a number of projects currently not mentioned in the Government’s Public Transport Action Plan, such as: new inner urban tunnel of the Oslo T-Bahn and cross-connection between the two T-Bahn lines in Groruddalen. It is important that the government now cooperates closely with cities on how to support collective development in relation to current plans, for example: in Oslopackakt3, because now you get a completely different, direct state grant, whether it's 50 pst. or 70 pst. I hope a lot of people here at Stortinget and otherwise will be committed to bringing down health-damaging local pollution, so that we can give better responses to both ESA and city people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e566	The representative Bøhler puts the light on an important issue, namely the quality of the air we breathe into the cities. As the representative of Bøhler refers to, ESA has opened a case against Norway for breach of the limit values in the Air Quality Directive. The issue of air quality in cities is not new, and for several years we have had challenges related to local air quality in Norwegian cities. On 2 November 2011, Norway received a letter from ESA indicating that Norway had reported several exceedances of the local air quality limit values in the last five years. On 6 November 2013, Norway received a formal letter of formal notice for breach of the Air Quality Directive. Norway replied to the letter of opening on 13 January 2014. On 26 March 2014, Norway received a reasoned opinion. This was answered by Norway on 26 May 2014. Norway has thus had extensive contact with ESA in this matter, and Norway’s reply to ESA has explained Norway’s work on local air quality in depth. However, it became known yesterday that the ESA has decided to bring the case before the EFTA Court. This would be the first case against Norway before the EFTA Court in the field of the environment. ESA’s claim that air quality limit values have been exceeded on several occasions in cities is not disputed by Norway, and we will follow this case as closely as possible. Work on local air quality is important independent of the ESA case. In 2014, there appears to be no exceedance of the limit values for particulate matter in most locations but still significant exceedances of NO2 in Oslo. Poor air quality in our cities leads to health consequences for the people who live there. Exposure of local air pollution triggers and aggravates disease, primarily in the respiratory tract and cardiovascular system. There are also stronger points of view that air pollution can affect the nervous system and diseases such as diabetes. The health risk associated with local air pollution depends on the concentration of the pollutants and the duration of exposure to them. Road traffic is the main source of exceedances of local air quality limits. Road traffic is also one of the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway today. In the longer term, cleaner vehicles and increased bets on collective, bicycle and times will help to reduce local air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. A number of measures have been implemented to reduce concentrations of particulate matter, including: peak tyre charge, particulate cleaning requirements for all new vehicles, environmental limits, increased cleanness, etc. The new vehicle emission requirements, Euro 6, are currently looking to have a beneficial effect on the NO2 emissions of new vehicles. For heavy-duty vehicles in particular, measurements during real-time driving show positive results. In particular, Oslo has large exceedances of the annual average value of NO2. Calculations from the Transport Economic Institute show that the emissions of NO2 in the Oslo area with a natural replacement of vehicles will be reduced from 2015 and that the applicable NO2 limits could be complied with within a 10-year period. However, it is a fact that urban air quality is a challenge that has health implications here and now. It is therefore important to also work on measures that can be introduced and have a short-term impact. Municipalities are the local air quality pollution authority and shall, inter alia: ensure that investigations into measures are carried out. At the same time, site owners who contribute significantly to the risk of exceeding the limit values have an autonomous obligation to implement the necessary measures. However, municipalities such as the pollution authority have overall responsibility to ensure that measures are implemented and can be implemented, inter alia. require owners of installations to take action. In addition, the State has an important role to play in facilitating the provision of sufficient tools for municipalities and other site owners to implement effective measures. It has been opened in recent years to introduce instruments such as cow pricing, increased tolls on days of high air pollution, environmental limit values and temporary traffic control measures in the event of a risk of exceedances of the limit values. In order to reduce the problems of suspended particulate matter, municipalities also have the possibility to adopt heavy-duty tyres. In the 2015 budget, this government has allocated funds to the urban environment agreements, and in line with the government platform, we will finance 50 pst. the development of major public transport solutions in the major cities. Several cities work actively in this area and have implemented available tools. For example, Kristiansand and Trondheim have introduced time-differentiated tolls. In Bergen and Oslo, there has been a heavy-duty charge. The government is now giving priority to finding good solutions and strengthening the work on air quality in cities. The Directorate-General for the Environment will follow in particular: the work of municipalities in the field of action investigations. As part of the follow-up, deadlines have been set for the provision by municipalities of their action studies. The Directorate-General for the Environment has also recently developed a guide for the preparation of action studies. When preparing the action studies, municipalities must deal with the means of introducing them into current legislation. Several municipalities have called for further and more targeted instruments to address local air quality problems, in particular aimed at reducing NO2 emissions. The government has therefore started work on assessing how to reach EU limit values, as well as assessing the instruments it might be appropriate to put in place. A number of different instruments and measures should be considered, including whether provision should be made for municipalities to choose to introduce low-emission zones and whether diesel bans should be introduced on high-air pollution days, as well as the issue of opening up environmental requirements to the taxi industry. I am committed to identifying effective instruments to address the problems of local air quality. Demand for new drosses to use low or zero emission technologies when technology so warrants is part of our policy platform. It has therefore been decided that legislative changes to provide the municipalities and county municipalities with a legal basis for making demands on the taxi industry on low or zero emission technologies. This is in line with the proposal from the Left, which was discussed at Stortinget on 16 December this year. The municipality of Oslo has requested the possibility to make such claims for the taxi industry. In addition, the Ministry of Transport will rapidly implement legislative changes in consultation with the Ministry of Climate and Environment to further develop a common urban transport procurement system. In the long term, a code on urban road procurement could enable environmental differentiation to be established in an already existing tolling system. However, there will continue to be a number of technical challenges related to the application of environmentally differentiated tariffs in urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e624	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I'll comment on some of that. Firstly, it is confirmed that there are also exceedances this year in the case of NO2 but not exceedances in the case of particulate matter and so-called PM in Oslo. That's not true. I've taken out and looked at the pollution month by month from the various measuring stations, and in the case of the most dangerous suspended particulate matter, so-called PM2.5, it's now at all the measuring stations in the Urban Environmental Status overview – which is on their websites – for September an exceedance of the average annual value, which could be 8 micrograms. I'm not going to take it technically at the measurement units here now, but it's exceeding the average value for September at all the measuring stations, and it's also overrun on the second months of the year, at all the measuring stations. So there is an absolute chance of exceeding limit values also in the case of PM2,5, the finest suspended particulate matter, but also in the case of the other suspended particulate matter, called PM10, there are large exceedances at least on Manglerud. The maximum level is 20, and here it has fluctuated between 36 and 23 – in September. At Hjortnes – where the limit values are still 20 – it has fluctuated between 28 and down to 17, but up to 23, and similarly in Smestad. Here's the situation where there's pollution in the east and west: the problem extends from Smestad, through Kirkevägen and Frogner and to Oslo east. The fact that the Council of State places emphasis on and talks about the need for the municipalities to have sufficient tools, I think it is positive and important, and what we need then is to get clarifications about the new tools. It is good that you want to make one code for road pricing, but then we need a clarification that you will have the opportunity to link toll payment with the motor vehicle register in order to introduce environmental taxes. It is good to consider low-emission zones and to consider giving Oslo the opportunities requested to regulate the traffic of diesel vehicles, and to regulate the taxi industry, but it is soon necessary to decide to provide the homes, because action investigations are now being carried out in the closing phase. And what I hear from the work with, among other things, The action study for Oslo is that it is not possible to provide a credible investigation into how to achieve goals, because you do not have the tools to do. So it's urgent that the Council of State and the government clarify their positions on local instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e640	I fully agree that it's urgent, but let me just stress that the exceedances that ESA refers to have been going on for a long time. It's a problem the government has inherited. We're busy finding a solution to this. That is why I say that the government has started work to assess how to reach EU limit values. However, several of the instruments that can be put in place to improve local air quality are intrusive, and it is therefore important that we investigate the individual instruments thoroughly before any progress is made with them. That is also why I have stressed the importance of the use of existing instruments by municipalities, such as: cow pricing, time-differentiated tariffs and existing tolls on days at risk of exceedance of the limit values, or date driving. It is not that the municipalities have no means to use them now. However, we have noticed that they are asking for more instruments, so the government has started work to assess how to reach EU limit values. This is a matter that has been going on for many years, and the previous government did not find a solution to this, but we are concerned that air quality needs to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e649	First, I would like to say that it is very good that we have a debate on this issue in Stortinget. The problems that Jan Bøhler points to are, as he also says, important and central to all the cities of a certain size in the country. So is it also that some cities are more affected than others, because of either higher traffic or other local conditions. In Bergen we get a phenomenon called inversion, when it's cold, just because of the mountains and the shape of the city, which means that we exceed the limit values sky high at regular intervals, especially in cold winter days. In the last period, when we had the red-green government, we had encountered and continued situations in Bergen with high air pollution. The City Council at that time was unable to take effective action. They constantly pointed out that this was the government's responsibility, because they did not have the funds that were going to be available. When the same majority that we have had in Bergen for a long time have moved into the government offices, we feel that the same parties from the government offices point to the municipalities and say that the municipalities are responsible here – something that is correct in itself, but what is essential in these kinds of issues is primarily political will to do something. We also believe that when it is political will, municipalities must have a repertoire of instruments to play on. There have been some problems here from the interpellant. I think a lot about the commercial transport in the cities, which has a large share of the emissions because very much of this goes on diesel, whether it's taxis, buses or goods transport. What we've seen in Bergen is that when we switch to gas in these vehicles, and of course all of us prefer biogas, you get far. I imagine it will be very useful in cases where we have this type of fleet transport, where it is easy to get large purchases and a good, efficient supply of fuel, also to provide support and incentives to use this type of fuel instead of diesel. In Bergen we are also plagued by air pollution from ships located at the port. There are many oil service vessels lying there and operating the engine, and it is quite obvious that a land-based power solution would be best for nature. It's not easy. Technical issues lie in this, and it costs a lot. But it is clear that it also costs quite a lot for all those who lose years of life because of the soliped that the interpellant pointed to. Finally, I would like to stress this again with the fact that the most important thing is that you have a political will. We've seen this in Stortinget, too, that one government party actually voted against the fact that it was supposed to allow environmental requirements to be imposed on the taxi industry when this was up for treatment. It reminds me of the Prime Minister's words that it is not easy to operate environmental policies in a government where not everyone is equally concerned about the climate. In Bergen we also saw that it was only when the Christian People's Party broke out of the urban council collaboration with the Progress Party and the Right that there was a majority in the city board for more offensive measures. Once again, as the inter-pellant points out, we must ensure that politicians have the opportunity at their will. That is also why, in the Labour Party, we will be very positive about the representative proposal from the Left that is under consideration on these funds. Here's a lot to pick up, we think, and I think we're going to have a good debate on this topic, too, when that matter comes to mind here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e662	I would first like to thank the interpellant for traveling an important theme. Clearly, the levels of pollution we see in our largest cities are not sustainable in the long term. Work needs to be done on both emergency measures, on which the interpellant was involved, but not least long-term work to avoid the occurrence of emergencies is important as a priority. I believe that in Oslo a great deal has been done, in combination with measures that the government has also implemented, which will help us to have a completely different situation in the long term related to local pollution than the one we have today. The government has promoted new guidelines for eco-friendly urban development with the aim of minimising transport needs – becoming as much dependent as possible on cars in everyday life. It's a positive development. We have seen how the City Council has spent many years building up public transport in the Oslo area. It's given us a lot of results. The collective share has risen sharply, and the proportion of people driving a car has fallen sharply. This is happening in a situation where we have also had a huge population growth – the strongest growth in Europe. The urban development policy that we are following in Oslo, where we are consistently continuing around nodes, is crucial to minimising transport needs. There is also a lot of positive work from the government to continue and stimulate a faster replacement of the car park. Action is now also being taken to achieve cheaper, chargeable hybrids, and electric car policy is being pursued – these are also measures that will help to improve air quality in cities. In Oslo, we have also invested in land flow. As the representative of Henriksen said, this could be an important measure. We know that the particulate emissions from ferries and cruise ships, which lie at the berth of their own machine, are enormous and correspond to many times this city's fleet. Getting ferries on a fixed route across the shore, as we've got with Color Line, is an important measure. Then there are some technical challenges for those ships that come with just one call and lie one day. But for those who walk in a fixed path, it is possible to get to very much. Oslo is also betting on replacing old wood stoves with new, clean-burning wood stoves. There we have an offensive support scheme, which allows people to replace their wood stoves. It is estimated that the phase-out of oil fires in households is faster than the national ban that we have agreed on in Stortinget, and we have a very generous support system to get people to replace the oil fire with an environmentally friendly alternative. Another important element to address local air pollution is to make public transport as clean as possible. Routes are ambitious, on request from the City Council, when they use both bioethanol and auto-produced biogas, and both fuels share the view that they have low local emissions. They're also betting on hydrogen, hybrid and now every time they're pure electric buses, and it's very positive. They go ahead and show the way to other municipalities in terms of public transport. Then the Council of State has indicated that it will now be possible to set environmental requirements for taxis. It's positive. These are cars that go around the center to a very large extent, where the challenges are greatest. Getting as much dross as possible to implement cleaner technologies, which are not only good for global emissions but also for local emissions, is a good measure. We have a cross-political objective that we should take the growth of traffic with public transport, bicycles and corridors – that is easier said than done. But the escalation we are now looking at at the cycling effort in Oslo, I think, could be an important contribution. Already, the proportion of day-to-day cycling has doubled in recent years – since 2008. Substantial funds will be invested by the municipality on bicycle measures in addition to the measures agreed in the cooperation parties in terms of the State’s commitment to bicycles in 2015. So we have challenges, but there's also some positive things to enjoy. It's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e688	I also want to thank the interpellant for bringing up the theme. It is an important theme, and the overall quality of air quality has improved in recent years is at times very poor in large cities. It is a problem that it is both right and necessary that the Storting should also address through debate. In particular, particulate matter and NO2 are the main challenges. In the case of particulate matter, a number of possible measures have been taken. Both heavy-duty, environmental and road-cleaning costs are things that can bring down the levels of suspended particulate matter. In the case of NO2, very high emissions are still seen and a large proportion of emissions are from heavy-duty vehicles. Meat pricing can be an effective and accurate tool to reduce NO2 emissions in cities, but it may also be an option that should be used more to manage heavy transport outside major cities. The setting of environmental requirements for the taxi industry is very positive, and the fact that a majority of the Grand Duchy is in favour of it is important. It also gives the municipalities opportunities in that context. I would also like to mention that some cities in some contexts have switched to the use of a gas bus, which has also had a positive effect. In the longer term, there is no doubt that a policy to facilitate the transition to electric cars and other types of low-emission cars could be of great importance, together with an offensive collective effort in the major cities. It is effective but long-term measures to reduce air pollution in the major cities. It is the municipality as the local pollution authority which, together with the State, is to ensure compliance with local air quality rules. It is therefore largely up to the municipalities to take responsibility for reducing the exposure of the inhabitants to this type of pollution and for levels below the established limit values. I have to say that as this debate has been over the last few years, it has developed a kind of ‘blame game’ between the state and the municipality that I think is unfortunate, and that I do not think it serves the matter in any way. I see that the left's environmental and transport agency in Oslo contributed a little to the kind of "blame game" on VG Net now yesterday. I think that's a little sad, because this is a shared responsibility, and I think that there are opportunities to develop tools that can work. The councils were in on some of them. Today, municipalities are given the opportunity to use a number of tools – time differentiation, pricing and date driving are things that can be used. It is also the case – and I fully agree with that – that we should develop a road procurement legislation that also allows for environmental differentiation in tolls. The centre batch is also open to look at low-emission zones and other measures, but it does not have to be such that we adhere to a single measure as the only measure that works. We also have to be willing to look at a number of measures and to differentiate them, not only with regard to the car and its fuel, but also – as I was talking about earlier – with regard to different vehicles, i.e. whether it is heavy transport, whether it is bus as public transport, or whether it is taxis we are talking about. I therefore believe that it must be possible for both the municipalities and the state to go further in taking responsibility together, and also to be able to look at good actions together without creating very strong conflicts between the different levels of government. I also want to mention that it is not only car traffic that leads to local air pollution. The development of more district heating is also a good and long-term solution for heating in the construction sector, which can also reduce emissions of combustion particles. With district heating, it is possible to use energy that would otherwise have been unused, and this is central among other things. to phase out oil burners in old barley. I would also challenge the Council of States to address the problems we are facing as a result of pollution from other countries, because long-distance transport particles from other countries in Europe also represent a significant proportion of the particulate matter in the major cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e721	I too would like to thank you for a very important debate. First, I would like to express my support to one of the left-wing bureaux in Oslo, Guri Melby, who points out that today's problem is that big business and government have not provided cities with the necessary tools, the right opportunities, to implement measures. In implementing measures to reduce air pollution, cities are far more offensive — and have been far more offensive — than the growth and government has proven to be in recent years. Not only has pollution increased as a direct result of the decision taken by the previous, red-green, government, which created a charging system that made diesel cars more advantageous – because that is the increase in the proportion of diesel cars in cities that is the reason why we have got more air pollution – it was also not willing to allow Oslo to be a municipality in particular, but also the other cities to implement measures that they wanted to take locally, also tough measures that would have a quite significant impact on the city’s population. It is absolutely right and important to work systematically with the long-term measures to reduce emissions. Here the cities do a lot, and they have ambitious goals. Decisions have been taken on public transport in terms of volume, but also that it should have zero emissions by 2020. The state has a lot to learn from what cities do, such as: Oslo, where the entire city’s car fleet shall have zero or low emissions in 2015. These are measures that the country itself can take. Once the municipality has phased out all its oil burners, the state can do the same, including the top load. When an offensive policy to remove oil fires by 2020, the state can start and actually assist in doing this, instead of just referring to a ban that has not yet been launched a process to get it started. At the rate that the removal of oil fires is now happening, these are not going to be gone by 2020. There's a lot more to do here. However, the most important thing is to allow measures to address the acute situation that arises, especially in winter. Then it's nitrogen dioxide that's the problem. In the case of particulate matter, the instruments are largely available locally — washing is done, and heavy-duty tyres are charged. Here you have the opportunity to do your own grip. In the case of nitrogen dioxide, the problem – at least from the Oslo side – is three-thirds: It's the private cars that account for about a third of the pollution. The measure to get rid of this is to ban diesel cars on the most polluted days. The state road authority must cooperate with the municipalities to do so, because it is like the road user that such a ban can be imposed. Oslo is willing to do that. The state has said no to do that. The second is the transit of heavy goods vehicles — it accounts for about one third of emissions. The measure here is to create bypasses. It's problematic to do, but there are a few days. Measures can also be introduced on the bypass to enable this to be done. The state has also said no. The third source of pollution is local transport of goods within the city. It takes longer to change, but the tools to do so are to introduce low-emission zones. We've been waiting for years for that to happen. It is common to have around Europe, and it is a tool that Norwegian cities also need, especially to bring down and get cleaner transportation of goods in cities. There is a local will here – it's the state that has proven to be the big brake block. With the debate we have today, and with the decision taken two days ago, on the possibility of setting environmental requirements for the taxi industry, work has been done – a decision has been taken and has had the will locally. Now the Stortinget finally shows that you have the same willingness to put in place such an opportunity for the local authorities. It is good that the Council of State indicates that work has been started on the change concerning environmental requirements for the taxis, so quickly. I also noticed that Per Rune Henriksen gave signals that the Workers' Party would now see seriously both in low-carbon zones and on the possibility of introducing emergency measures in order to ban diesel cars on the state roads as well. It is positive for the discussion that will take place in January, as these matters will be finally dealt with in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e742	Today we talk about it as ruining the health of our kids, of pregnant women, of the elderly and of those who already suffer from diseases. The air quality in Oslo is sometimes so bad that more people with heart and lung problems die shortly after these days with extra high pollution that we often have in winter. Children with asthma and allergies cannot go out and play because the air is so polluted. Older people, children, pregnant women and sick people are the ones who get the hardest because we have political acceptance to have life-threatening air in our cities. This particularly upsets me as a cage along the E6 in Alna, part of Groruddalen, where one measures the most dangerous concentrations of air pollution. But it is also a matter for Bergen and other cities, and therefore I am very happy that the interpellant raises this matter today. What does the government do in this situation? Do the people first act when the mayors of our big cities fail? We know a lot about what causes problems. There are many technical things that are mentioned here today, but there is passenger and freight traffic on the road that is the main cause of the air pollution. In addition, heating comes, and in our ports there are also sources of emissions. After eleven years of urban council in Bergen, 10,000 cars cross Bryggen. SV wants Bryggen car-free and environmental street in Obergate, Nye Sandviksvejen and Sandviksvejen. After almost two decades of civil plurality in Oslo, the political plural finds out that it needs to be built twelve-field E18 towards Oslo. The Minister for Climate and Environment states that the problem is not the motorways, but the cars. We common mortals would argue that there is a connection between the roads and the cars, and that's what the research has said about. Researchers at the Institute for Transport Economics have concluded that the construction of more roads is a major source of increased emissions. Citation: ‘However, emissions are also increasing as a result of an increase in the volume of transport by increasing the number and length of journeys carried out by each individual and by shifting from collective means of transport and walking and cycling to passenger cars as a result of a relatively better situation for passenger car travel.’ I wonder if the Minister for Climate and Environment doubt that major motorways towards the larger cities will increase the amount of transport and that a transition will take place from public transport, bicycles and bicycles to cars. We don't want the major highway extensions like the E18, the West Corridor and parts of the E39 towards the Bergen. We see this as contrary to political objectives that the growth of passenger transport in urban areas should be affected by public transport, bicycles and corridors. In SV we think cars have to give up for people. SV wants a clean green city development. Instead, we get bigger and bigger highways that make the kids in the Grorud Valley and other places sick and die. Last week I saw a hardworking, capable and leading government council in action in Lima. I believe in her willpower. The previous government, among other things, set in the works a land and transport strategy for Oslo and Akershus because the municipality of Oslo did not sufficiently address the problems here. What has the Minister for Climate and Environment done to cut down on car traffic towards the big cities since she sat in the Ministerial chair? It has the ability to set up several fields on the motorways for running and public transport. It has the ability to reduce state parking spaces in the cities. What new grip has it done? The interpellant has many suggestions that we have to discuss, and several have named the ports. What can the Minister for Climate and Environment do to remove dangerous pollution from our ports? Yeah, she can put on shore electricity. It has actually been proposed by the Swedish authorities at Stortinget, and the matter is now at the disposal of the committee. If the Right is the least trouble for the air in the big cities, I expect support in this matter. And I'm sorry that we're so bad in our big cities here in the country when it comes to this important issue, that we might have to be judged in the EFTA Court. But maybe that's what it takes for us to do this. Because it is decisive that in a stronger cooperation between the state and the municipality, we are happy that people will be able to go out in winter as well, and that our young people will not die because of pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e772	First, I want to commend the representative Jan Bøhler for an important interpellation, and for still putting the spotlight on the capital's special challenges. I am also pleased with the Council's response, which sums up the possibilities that already exist to do something about the problems. The local pollution situation in our largest cities requires action in both the short and long term. The most effective short-term measure will be a total or partial ban on driving during the worst periods. However, I would also like to point out that, far more than today, we need to use ITS systems to ensure that traffic on the main roads flows in and out of town. In the short term, increased use of biodiesel is expected to contribute to the reduction of emissions. The same effect, of course, has also increased the impact of environmentally friendly cars. It is therefore gratifying that through the 2015 state budget, we are making it cheaper to use environmentally friendly fuels, but also to buy environmentally friendly cars. There are, of course, other economic instruments such as cow pricing, differentiated charges in the bombing depending on how much the cars emit, etc. When I am a little skeptical about this type of action, it is because there are no real alternatives for goods and passenger transport on a large scale. The goods have to go to the store before the store opens, and people have to go to work. There are also no real re-routing possibilities for continuous car traffic. Increased charges in this context will probably only make it more expensive to drive without giving the desired effect. A green shift, where it becomes lucrative to renew the car park more often, must be a better way to go, even though it will of course take some time for you to replace the whole car park. However, we should set bold targets for all new cars to be emission-free. One of the main challenges in the Oslo region is the problem of capacity in public transport and accessibility on the roads for commercial transport. It has to be solved through investments in high-capacity infrastructure such as trains and T-Bahn, but also by a road system that increases the accessibility of buses. Investment needs in the Capital Region will remain high in the coming years, not least due to strong growth. The large numbers law makes the needs increase nominally more here than in other parts of the country. Just that it may be difficult to understand in other parts of the country. However, if we are to succeed in reducing emissions for the transport sector, we must tackle the problem where the most important transport is available and the challenges are greatest. Short-term solutions are necessary, but we already need to set out the long-term course for what we want society to look like in 40 to 50 years' time. What visions do we dare have, and how can we realize them? I think that if we are to achieve the objectives, it is necessary to look at more measures. First of all, I would like to mention smart planning. We can reduce the increase in total transport demand by localising the workplaces and residential areas closer to each other. It will make it more attractive to go and ride a bike to work. By continuing around the existing hub, we can lay the foundation for better public transport. We can place new jobs in the peripheral zone in the housing and labour markets and thus contribute to exploiting the counter-current capacity that already exists. Secondly, we can get more goods on the track. This is about improving the competitiveness of the railway with more efficient terminals, including the realisation of the plans for a modern Alnabru terminal, bringing back the maintenance run on the railway, which is now 17.5 billion. kr, and provide increased capacity on the tracks by expanding new tracks. Thirdly, zero-emission vehicles. From a 40-50-year perspective, the car park will be climate friendly. Fourthly, we can put in place a nationwide funding for the operation of public transport. It's problematic when it's a collective journey that becomes an economic problem. There should be an opportunity, and there should be reward schemes for it. Then I think we are concerned with what the representative Marit Arnstad also concluded: it must be possible to look at issues across the board. It is positive that the government then dares to raise the special problems of the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e795	I thank you for many good posts and will comment on some points. The Council of State emphasises the importance of the use of the instruments by municipalities. I agree. As I said, they need more tools, but in Oslo, we're talking about, among other things. to introduce cow pricing in the tolling. We hope that the government's own party in Oslo City Council will be in favour of this, when this is proposed there. What is also important is that the Council of State alerts – I hope she can come back to this in the final installment – when the government will decide on the proposals for new residences for municipalities, which has been addressed in this debate both by myself and by several others, and where decisions have already been taken on the Stortinget regarding taxis. What I would also like to demand – it has not been said by the Council of State, and from a few others – is the very car tax system and the review to make it greener, which the government has announced in the State budget, and to which you should come back to the summer. In order to make the car tax system greener, it is essential to include heavier NO2 and particulate matter components in the design of the car tax system, so that it can both stimulate a car fleet with less climate emissions and less local emissions. As far as I am concerned about biodiesel, I would like to add, on local emissions of NO2: Biodiesel emits at least as much as normal diesel. In the case of local emissions of NO2, biodiesel is also a problem, which must be borne in mind when designing the charging system for it. The representative Astrup describes the action taken in Oslo. I agree that, among other things: the guidelines on housing near public nodes become important, both of which have been worked on by the last two governments and with which the Stortinget certainly agrees, and will minimise transport needs. However, according to own investigations now carried out, the time you have added will not be enough to bring the emissions down below the limit values. The electrician comes into his post that there are only a few days. I would like to stress that if you look at the exceedances of these limit values month by month, that's the average for the year, i.e. many days. It won't be enough just to introduce some acute measures in a few days. You have to take a more inward look at how extensive this is. In the case of particulate matter, Elvesuen says you have tools. I just want to stress that, according to the Public Health Institute's report last year, diesel-powered cars are now the main cause of particulate matter. The same heavier policy must be pursued, it does not only involve heavy-duty tyres, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e821	I would also like to thank you for a good debate and for many constructive input into improving local air quality in Norwegian cities. But I think it is important to stress that this is a challenging issue, and for many years we have had problems with exceedances of the local air quality limit values in Norwegian cities. As early as 2011, ESA pointed out that Norway had reported several exceedances of local air quality limit values in the last five years. Nor are we alone on this issue. The European Commission launched a case against 17 EU countries in January 2013. At the same time, however, we are increasingly aware of the health effects related to local air pollution. Local air pollution triggers and worsens diseases both in the respiratory tract and in the cardiovascular system. Therefore, the government is now giving priority to finding good solutions and strengthening the work on air quality in cities. This is why the Directorate for the Environment is following up the work of the Action Survey more closely and has also developed a guide for municipalities. But, as I also mentioned in the introduction, municipalities have to deal with the tools available to them in today's legislation in the field of action investigations. I think it is important to clarify that several municipalities have already implemented a number of measures. In Kristiansand and Trondheim have introduced a rush-time charge, and Bergen and Oslo have introduced a peak-time charge. Then one sees that several municipalities have called for further and more targeted instruments. It is precisely for this reason that the government has started work on assessing how to reach the limit values of the directive. I fully agree that this is a challenge that the municipalities and the state must solve together. Now we are also going to review the car charges. It comes in the revised national budget. Then a question was also asked about the new E18 West Corridor. I am concerned that the infrastructure being built meets the challenges of the future with the transition to the low-carbon society, the reduction of noise and the release of local air pollution. The size has required the transport of passengers in metropolitan areas to be taken by collective, bicycle and gangways. It also means that if this project generates growth in car traffic, means must be put in place to slow down car traffic. But let me finally make it clear that the new E18 West Corridor also contains a high standard collective field and a continuous cycle path.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e834	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e850	Nearly two days in overtime, the world’s country agreed on the path to a new climate agreement in Paris in 2015. The description of the result is divided opinions. Governments have described it as a compromise that makes it easier to get an international climate agreement in place next year. The environmental organisations have referred to it as a significant diluted agreement, which neither provides the necessary climate action nor adds up to the necessary emission reductions. As a participant in Lima, I have to say that this might be the best we could do. That said, together with others, I would like to see a much more ambitious and binding result. With voluntary emission cuts and no climate funding, it is asked how well the basis is for a completely necessary and ambitious agreement in Paris, but the option, which is not an agreement, would have been far worse. This is clearly an important step forward. I believe that there is reason to commend the Council of State for the very important and good job she did in Lima – not only for the Norwegian delegation, but also the trust she was shown in the last round of negotiations. It says respect. Negotiations in Lima have followed a harvest of up-to-date and serious knowledge as a backstop. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has updated its reports, and it is a clearly gloomy picture being drawn. Climate change is at risk of being out of control if the global average temperature rises more than two degrees. The two-degree target is to limit global temperature rise compared to pre-industrial time to two degrees. The consequences of a temperature rise above 2 degrees will be serious. We will also experience major changes in the coastline and flooding of lowland areas. A large part of biodiversity will be lost. Large parts of the world will experience increasing scarcity of fresh water. Uncontrolled warming will lead to the melting of the tundra and police and the burning down of the world’s rainforests. Melting of the tundra and large forest fires will release large amounts of greenhouse gases which in turn will lead to increased heating. It made the impression when we sat in the plenary room in Lima and listened especially to the poor countries that are now experiencing the climate change on their bodies. Bresmelting in Bhutan, failing fishing due to an increase in sea temperature outside Senegal, and failing crops that are disturbing food safety in many countries. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has demonstrated that greenhouse gas emissions need to be significantly reduced in order to avoid dramatic global climate change. The latest report shows that the temperature has already increased almost a degree, and is expected to increase by four degrees this century. The consequences if this occurs are reduced food safety, more extreme weather and threatened ecosystems. The risk can be reduced if we do something to reduce emissions. Our planet is in a very serious situation. We are no longer talking about an uncertain future for our grandchildren. Climate change is not happening in the distant future – it is happening now. That's why it's for our children, and what we're doing to reverse evolution. It will therefore be essential to establish a new international agreement. The Christian People's Party believes that countries that have largely caused the climate crisis must also take the most responsibility. At the same time, it's not going to pass that this alone is not enough. Developing economies such as: India and China are now making a significant contribution to the increased emissions we see in the world. It requires that we make compromises across the traditional dividing lines between countries and developing countries. It is positive that Norway is a very good and active driver in international negotiations, and that we are willing to take on significant commitments. The Christian People's Party expects the government to continue to be a driving force in international efforts to bring about a climate agreement in 2015. This job must start now. I think the government should have set Norway's climate target before Lima. Before the Lima Summit, the goal was to collect 10 billion. US dollar to the UN Green Climate Fund. This target was reached. I think it had a great effect that Norway so clearly went ahead and promised 1.6 billion. kr from 2015 to 2018 to the UN Green Climate Fund. It may also be possible to give a positive effect if Norway had notified its climate targets in advance. We believe that Norway’s best potential for influence lies in an unreserved willingness to go ahead and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Norway may not purchase itself from significant domestic climate measures through international trading of allowances. International trade in climate allowances should be a complementary measure, but it is important to work towards an increasingly effective system. We need to go ahead and show that it is possible to cut significantly in own emissions through concrete measures at home. A climate-friendly future depends on changes being made in all sectors. The largest contributions to Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions come from oil and gas production, from transport and from industrial processes. It is necessary to significantly reduce these emissions. The reason I reported this interpellation to the climate minister was that the EU Heads of State and Government got an ambitious climate and energy package for 2030. The agreement provides a binding target for greenhouse gas emissions to decrease by at least 40 pst. compared with 1990 levels. The energy consumption shall be covered by at least 27 pst. renewable energy sources, and one shall achieve an energy efficiency improvement of at least 27 pst. The EU is thus signaling a high level of ambition for emissions reduction in Europe. The European objectives will be crucial for Norwegian energy and climate policies in the future, taking into account Norwegian emission targets before the climate summit in 2015. The EU has taken the lead in concreteising the 2030 figures. This must also be done by Norway, and we should at least be on the level of the EU. It's important to make progress internationally. Norway has been able to cover emissions so far, and it is important to remain there in order to keep the list high. We hope it becomes a good process in which there will be broad agreement on an ambitious goal for 2030. It is essential that these are clear by the end of March 2015, so that the UN has set a deadline. So my challenge to the Council of State is: what will the consensus in the EU on such an ambitious objective mean for Norway? And I also want to add: what does the result in Lima mean for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e888	On Monday afternoon I returned to Norway after some intense days and nights in Lima. Climate negotiations are slow, but the results in Lima must be seen in the light of the fact that we are in a process towards a new climate agreement in Paris next year. This wasn't the year of the major breakthroughs. But we moved the world a little step in the right direction. It's no longer a question of everyone being involved, but of how. We've also had an important decision that says that when we put our goals before Paris, these must be more ambitious than what we've put on the table in the past. It is now up to each country to decide for itself what their contribution should be. That means we're not getting the perfect deal, but we're getting a realistic deal. In my view, the requirements for us are becoming more stringent. The contribution of each country is becoming more visible. The link between international and national is getting stronger. It requires Norway to deliver. We must follow up on what we have said in the debates. We need to provide information that enables the quantification of the emission target, and we need to justify why our contribution is fair and ambitious. Norway will provide its indicative contingent liability in the first quarter of 2015. The future EU climate and energy policy will be crucial for how Europe implements the transition to a low-carbon society. The EU emission targets cover all sectors. With its size, the EU can contribute to the development of new solutions on a broad scale. EU emission target of 40 p.p. reduction is divided by a reduction of 43 pst. in the allowance system compared to 2005 and a 30 pst. off-quota reduction compared to 2005. Norway is part of the EU quota system and participation in the quota system is one of the main instruments in Norwegian climate policy. It is therefore positive that the EU continues to regard the quota system as the main instrument. The evolution of the allowance system in the future is important for Norway. Norway has argued for the need for higher quota prices, and it is therefore good that the annual reduction in the quantity of allowances will increase from 2021 and that a market stabilising reserve will be introduced. This should be introduced earlier than 202L in order to have the best effect. The quota price is an important incentive also for Norwegian companies, and thus EU decisions have a direct impact on Norway through our participation in the quota system. Norway will continue to work actively to influence the development of the system in the right direction. Norway has long worked actively to develop carbon capture and storage technologies. It is therefore positive that an allowance reserve should be set to contribute to low-carbon innovation, including carbon capture and storage. The EU also sets new renewable energy and energy efficiency targets, but these are targets that will only apply at EU level and not be translated into national targets for each Member State. It is positive that the decision of the European Council emphasises the freedom of Member States to decide for themselves their own energy supply and provides flexibility in the choice of instruments. This is important for Norway. Both EU climate and energy policies in the future will affect Norway, both directly through the EEA Agreement and indirectly through common markets and the development of global climate policy. Norway will be able to learn from the experience of EU countries and benefit from the creation of a larger market for low-emission solutions outside the quota system. The EU emission targets will also cover the transport sector and will provide a larger market for the low-emission solutions we need. The size has set a target for passenger transport growth in the major urban areas to be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors, and it is a target for new passenger cars to emit only 85 grams of CO2 per km on average in 2020. Furthermore, it is an objective that more of the freight transport is to be moved from road to sea and rail. Significant development of railway infrastructure and urban public transport contributes to facilitating more zero- and low-emission transport. Norway is well prepared for the future transformation of the transport sector, which is likely to come in all countries. In the construction sector, the aim is to phase out the use of fossil fuels; there is also the potential for other measures. Here, too, the experience of the EU in implementing measures, and greater market opportunities, will be of great help in stepping up efforts in Norway. The same will apply to the part of the industry not included in the allowance system. As stated above, Norway shall present its indicative contingent liability in the first quarter of 2015. Norway will also provide an overall overall emission target. We in Norway, unlike the EU, will also use international credits to meet our target. This will serve two purposes. First, it means that in Norway we can be more ambitious on behalf of the global climate than we would otherwise be. Secondly, it means that we are involved in developing global quota markets and can contribute to getting a carbon price that covers an increasingly large part of the world's emissions. Norway’s input into the new climate agreement shall be described in such a way as to provide the necessary clarity, transparency and insight to assess the impact of our climate objective. The adoption in Lima provides further guidance on how to avoid and justify the Norwegian climate change target. We in the government have said that we will properly involve Stortinget in the work on a new commitment. The revised National Budget 2014 described the framework for a new Norwegian climate obligation. I believe it is important that the Storting joins in discussing this matter and will therefore present a big message on this in February next year. I believe a big message is the best way to anchor the Norwegian recording. The indicative obligation described in the notification will be the starting point for the negotiation of a firm commitment in the 2015 agreement. The final agreement shall be negotiated at the Conference of the Parties in Paris in December 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e925	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. It is very positive that Norway's future climate targets are now being raised as a big message, so that we get a broad review here on the Stortinget. This is good. However, in order to take a brief look back, many have asked questions about Norway’s role in setting up climate targets in the EU. When it is said that Norway should have actively lobbyed in Brussels to argue against the EU setting energy efficiency and renewable energy targets, it is because such an agreement could go beyond the sale of Norwegian gas. I want to say that this puts Norway in a bit of a strange light. Is it really the case that we are both more ambitious and more effective, as long as the measures do not affect or be noticed by ourselves? If the world is going to have any chance of saving the planet we live on, we're totally dependent on every country starting to take this huge problem seriously. We have to start with ourselves first. What can we contribute? What are our emission challenges? How can we bring down the emissions? I hope such a big message as the Council of State mentions will give us an answer to this. Ambitious and concrete climate targets are important. The EU has set a good example. But no matter what kind of climate targets we've set, it doesn't have any effect if it's not followed up by action. We don't get one step closer if we don't set goals, commit action. The recipe for what measures we need to put in place is clear. This is particularly true in three major areas in which we face challenges, which were also addressed by the Council of State — the major oil sector, industry and transport. We can no longer pick out individual measures – we have to implement them all. This implies a shift in the pace of Norwegian climate policy. The objective of the climate agreement is to reduce Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. in comparison with 1990. We have no chance of achieving this if we do not introduce drastic measures in a number of areas. We can no longer spend the time discussing whether to electrify new fields forcefully from land, whether to increase the bet on public transport or whether to increase the transition to more fuel-rich cars and to electric and hybrid cars. We know that we need to implement all these measures, and more, to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e936	The representative Andersen Eide asked what we played into the EU a year ago. What we said was that emission targets are the most important, and we thought that renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement are important instruments for achieving the emission target. That is why I am also pleased that the EU itself now sees its quota system as one of the most important, and we are also in a good dialogue with the EU on how to work with market stabilising measures to achieve the most effective quota system. We also have very good cooperation with the EU when dealing with international climate negotiations. What is important is that we now invite Stortinget through a big message. I think it's important now that we work together to bring both Norway and the world forward to a low-carbon society. This means that we need to focus on technology development, green business development and the right infrastructure. It is also important how the public now facilitates through good planning and construction of the right infrastructure, by creating low-carbon markets, through its own procurement and through the incentive structure, and how we plan cities and our agglomerations to also reduce transport needs. This is now about a change of Norway in the future. Therefore, it is important that we have a good and broad debate in the Storting on the path we are going to take in the low-carbon society, also in order to contribute in the light of the global climate challenge. What emerged more clearly in Lima was the link between the international and the national, but also in what areas we in Norway can contribute to technology development, which can also deliver results internationally. That's the broad picture we want to invite Stortinget to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e945	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for a very important debate. So there can also be a symbolic value in the debate, because it is the second last debate this year in Stortinget. It is doubtful that 2015 will be an important climate year. 2015 can be the year in which future generations will judge our generation for our power of action on how we believe to facilitate a future picture for future generations in a good way. I also want to thank the Minister for the work she did in Lima. It's demanding work, and we appreciate that one at least came up with an agreement as a basis for moving on in Paris next year. I am also very pleased that the Minister for Climate and Environment so clearly now says that the Stortinget should be involved in what is the main theme of the interpelation, the goals to be set for Norway in the post-2020 climate. I would like to stress what she said to NTB then: ‘This is a major and important decision that requires good political anchoring.’ I very much agree with that statement and really hope that the Minister for Climate and Environment, when dealing with the big news we are receiving in February, sets itself the goal of being a good anchor for the important decisions to be taken. It's a big and important decision. It's maybe the most important decision we can make for the future, which is going to shape us. What is cause for concern, which must be mentioned in this interview, is that it may look like the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has a demanding job in his own government. I think it is a bit serious that in both the previous interpellation debate and this interpellation debate, there is no one from the Progress Party who – yet, at least – has signed up. I hope that's not an expression that there are complicated working conditions within the government about something as important as climate goals for 2030 and in the future, but it may seem that there is something in it. The objectives are interesting and important, but the most important thing is what we are doing to achieve the objectives set. That is what we need to recognise as one of the challenges of what has been the goals up to now, that it is difficult to achieve the goals set. We need to set clear, good goals, and we need to have good, important measures that build on the objectives that the interpellant also addressed. How we are going to achieve the targets must, of course, be the important discussion in the Stortingen in March, once the Storing Message has been presented. What steps are we going to take on the demanding road until 2050? When will we give a greenhouse gas emission permit in Norway for the last time? Such questions are unusually important if the goals we're going to shape are to be credible. We need to be able to do something that actually means a difference based on the objectives, but also what we are able to combine in terms of action. At the end of the interview debate – or at least in my post now – I would like to challenge: Do we in Stortinget intend to reach an agreed agreement on the targets by 2030 or after 2020, by 2050? That's what's the strenuous exercise. I mean, if we're going to be credible for the afterlife, it's just the broad consensus that needs to be sought on such an important question. I hope that the government parties are willing to discuss it with the opposition in Stortinget and not least with the cooperation parties, and that it can be a broad, secure basis not only for climate objectives, but also for climate action that builds on the objectives we set. If we don't want to find such a unified, broad consensus in the Storting, then I think the goals are harder to achieve, I think the measures are going to be harder to implement, and I think the responsibility that we have to assume for the climate is somewhat weaker than what we can really be able to do if we all actually want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e958	It's interesting to listen to the Workers' Party for the time being. One day the government is criticised for not doing enough to maintain the emissions from the petroleum sector, and the other day the rhetorical question is asked: When are we going to issue the latest greenhouse gas emissions permit? So it's important to be able to have two thoughts in your head at once. There's no doubt about it. This is a theme that challenges us in many ways, to convert Norway into a low-carbon society will not be easy. The government has started the job, and we are in the process of changing the pace of climate policy. The representative of Aasland referred to the fact that there might be difficult working conditions in the government related to climate issues. In that case, there is something the Aasland Party has a lot of experience with, I believe, because they were able to provide two climate announcements, both of which contained very few, little concrete and little ambitious measures to reduce emissions in Norway. I want to commend the Council of State for the role that she played in Lima to provide a good basis for what hopefully becomes an ambitious and committed climate agreement in Paris in 2015. It's demanding in the United Nations system, where there are those who want the least, who really decide the pace – and there are those who don't want so much. So I think we have to assume that the agreement in Paris is not going to be good enough either – but it is far preferable to get an agreement that is not good enough, than not to get an agreement at all. And of course, we're going to work to make it as good as possible. No one can doubt that Norway is not in these negotiations. We're a pusher, we're a bridge builder, and we're one of the few countries that actually put money on the table and do things internationally that are noticed -- the rainforest bet is an example of that -- that also makes us get interesting problems in this context. So the interpellant has raised a very important topic: what does the EU's climate target mean to Norway? After all, we are discussing Norway's climate goals as if they were completely detached from the European universe. And they are not, because half of Norwegian emissions are subject to the EU ETS. This means that we cannot see Norway’s climate targets completely detached from the EU’s climate targets. The positive thing about EU consensus is that it allows for flexibility in the choice of instruments, because Europe’s country is very different. Norway is a very different country in many ways. For example, where we already have a nearly 100 percent renewable power sector, Poland has. a near-hundred percent fossil power sector. Where we have already cut the emissions from the industry by 40 pst. Since 1990, while production has doubled, many countries have only increased their emissions even if production has declined. Where we have population growth, many countries in Europe have a decline in population. These things make us need the flexibility that the EU's climate targets have now given us. For this reason, it was positive that we in Norway were well on the way to receiving our input to the EU, because in Norway we may need the most of all European countries the flexibility to cut the emissions we have. We're heading for a significant surplus of power. We can use that surplus of power in several ways. We should use it to phase out fossil energy where possible and appropriate. We should use it to play a greater role towards our neighbouring countries through inter-territorial relations, where the government has now granted concessions to two of them. And not least, we have the potential to strengthen the world's most environmentally friendly industrial production, industrial production based on Norwegian hydropower. We must have climate goals in Norway that make it possible to do sensible things for the climate also in a global context, by facilitating the actual strengthening of its activity in Norway in the industrial sector. I believe we should be aware of that. Then there are a number of other things in the European Union's climate unity. I want to highlight what the Council of States was also concerned about, namely the need to achieve something in terms of CO2 capture and storage – helping to develop a technology that is cost-effective enough for more than the world's richest countries to put it into use. We're not there now, but it's an important job to prioritise, and it's important that we do it together with our European friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e983	It is those who have said in the debate that seas about this is one of the last debates in the United Kingdom in 2014, that we are ahead of a year, 2015, when there are going to be many and recurring climate debates. It's kind of very good. The starting point for the interpellation is the climate objectives set by the EU earlier in the harvest. I think there are two things that have driven a good part of the climate debate also in Norway this autumn. One is the objectives set by the EU, and the consequences for Norway, and what we should target. The second is the agreement between the United States and China, which has also shown another type of way forward on climate issues. Then, in 2015, we will have a big debate on our own climate goals. Then it's the Central Party's wish that we also remember in the discussion about how ambitious we are to be, and how big a goal we're going to set, that the targets themselves do not give any lower emissions and less global warming. It is the seventh and last measures that take place. That is why it is also very important the debate we are going to have on what measures we can put in place. Nevertheless, climate objectives are going to be an expression of, I think, the major changes we are facing, and also the strong measures that are needed to limit global warming to two degrees. I also want to commend the Council of State for its efforts in Lima. I also see Lima as a step on the road. I hope that's right what the Council said in its statement, that it's no longer a question of getting an agreement, but that the question is what kind of agreement we get in Paris. With regard to the discussion on what Norway is going to target, it is also interesting that the government is coming back with indicative targets in the first quarter of 2015 through a wholesale notification. The centre party looks forward to it, and we look forward to the debate that comes about in the wake of it. We don't have any reason either to push the discussions into the government or to advance a debate on the objectives we haven't seen yet. It is clear that Norway is participating in the quota market. A large part of Norwegian emissions are subject to quota obligations, but it is such that we need to set our own, clear targets for all the sectors that are significant, whether in industry and industry, or in households, or in transport. There is also the big and difficult debate we have in front of us. Otherwise, I think, as far as Lima is concerned, that we must also have a discussion that, during the next three months we are ahead of the meeting in Paris, there must obviously be some changes in the international understanding of the need for a binding agreement. But I think that will also be an ongoing debate. I consider the EU's climate objectives – and also the discussion we have had between other major acts, but in particular the EU's climate objectives – as one of several positive developments. I believe that it brings us in Norway closer to clarifying our own goals, their own burdens and their own actions, but also probably closer to clarifying more of the responsibilities between poor and rich countries. But all in all, one has to say that with a quota price as low as it is today, with a great deal of scepticism as to whether the Paris agreement will be ambitious enough, and with a lack of implementation of the truly significant climate measures, it is a demanding way we have to go ahead of ourselves in 2015, both internationally and here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1006	I think it's hard to overestimate the seriousness and significance of the process we're now going into, in the year that's coming. We will – along with the rest of the world – set emission targets by 2030. That's another 15 years. If we look back 15 years, when we've lived with a Kyoto agreement and in addition to our own initiatives, there's really been little change and social change. This means that, over the next 15 years, action needs to be implemented in a range that will have a major impact on how we organise Norway, as well as on both how we produce energy and how we develop society internationally. I would also like to commend the Minister for Climate and Environment for the work done in Lima. I think Norway was absolutely crucial and used the position built up over many years to get a consensus in place. How good that consensus is is really hard to judge before we see the results in Paris for next year, but this was a very necessary work, and here are the positive elements that can be used up towards Paris for next year. But what is crucial now is the process we are now entering, when the different countries are going to report their commitments in the spring of 2015. Of course, it is interesting with the large emitters, but Norway also plays an important role. On the left, we find it difficult to imagine that Norway should have some emission reduction target which is weaker than the EU target. We believe that we need a target of at least 40 pst. reduction – and it must be 40 pst. reduction in Norway. Yes, we have – as many people have experienced – an allowance system of which large parts of Norway’s business are also part, but it is important to bear in mind that the quota system is also just an instrument. As of today, there is an instrument that does not work, and if that continues, we must also take action there to achieve the objectives that we set ourselves. Because even if we have a quota system, it is not a policy-free area; we also need to be able to take initiatives to reduce emissions, even if those instruments are there. I think it is important that Norway has an ambitious target. Let's set a goal of 40 pst. reduction, then we as a rich nation with a developed economy, have to accomplish in many ways what the rest of the world has to achieve in 2050. We have to show that it is possible to achieve enough reductions, we have to be in the front, and we also have to be willing to implement measures that can be an example for others, which they can follow in retrospect. Today, we already have access to that position in transport policy, especially in the case of zero and low-emission vehicles, which is an example which, of course, has an impact far beyond the borders of Norway. In shipping, we can take on the same role, and there are several areas where, through our level of ambition, we reduce our own emissions, but also contribute to promoting technological development, and also to drive forward a will that others can also benefit from in retrospect. And the Environment Directorate has already shown, in its report, that it is possible to reduce it to over 40pst. reduction in Norway, although this is only 15 years ahead of time. Then, of course, we have to take a great deal of international responsibility, like other rich nations – through the Green Fund, where we played an important role in achieving the goal of 10 billion. dollars now in Lima. That's a good start. Now it's important that the green fund get an organization and a legitimacy that makes it right and effective to invest more resources into the green fund, so this is something that we can also be involved in building up in the future. The rainforest bet, which is widely agreed in Stortinget, is important that we keep the consensus, but also that we start to look beyond 2020, that we also look at this investment in a 2030 perspective, and also extend from just rainforest to other natural areas, like mangroves – what is commonly called the blue forest in the sea – where you can bind a lot of carbon. Energy efficiency improvement is necessary and important, and we also need a national target there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1027	I can't think of anything more unfair than climate change. Our high fossil energy consumption will hardly stand out as just for our grandchildren. Author Kurt Vonnegut wrote a few years ago: «Dear future generations: Please accept our apologies. We were rolling drinking on petroleum.» When differences between poor and rich are as large as they are in the world, it is evident that different countries have different aspirations and capacities to cope with climate change. And as I mentioned in my post, there is respect for the efforts of the Council of State put down in Lima, where we were last week. 190 countries agreed on a framework for the new climate agreement to be further developed in Paris. Our minister said he was happy with the compromise that was negotiated, based on what was possible. But if we're going to be happy with what came out of the Lima negotiations, we have too low ambitions about what needs, and it's time to see it. We haven't been in the vicinity of any global price of CO2 as monks, as actors in the Norwegian climate debate have argued with would have been tricked and important. In the absence of a binding international agreement and global instrument, individual countries must take responsibility and go ahead. Climate policy in the future will to a large extent be developed from below and up. Rich countries that Norway must show that the green shift is possible. The interpellant has challenged us on what the EU's new climate targets will have to say for Norwegian climate targets. Of course, the EU's climate objectives are relevant, but I still believe that we are starting the debate at the wrong end. First, we have to answer how much climate responsibility it is fair and reasonable that Norway takes on from a global perspective, because our part of the job of avoiding more than two degrees of global warming is great. Similarly, the EU must do its fair share of the job. So it's not always that easy to know what's fair. After all, a great deal of political dissatisfaction is about different views on justice. Following the challenge of SV’s ageing group, five Norwegian researchers have figured out how much greenhouse gases it is reasonable and justifiable that Norway assumes responsibility for cutting forward by 2030. And the researchers have calculated that our fair share can be assessed on the basis of two different principles of justice: capacity and historical responsibility for emissions. Their main conclusion is that Norway should take responsibility for significantly greater emissions reductions by 2030 than what we are doing today. The best-known estimate for researchers is a 2030 climate target for Norway at about 50 pst. Spit out, and then it's our historic responsibility that's being evaluated. If the principle of capacity is taken into account, Norway will have a completely different level of climate responsibility than we have discussed in the Norwegian climate debate until now. The top voltage in the recommendation is that Norway has to take responsibility for climate change by 2030, equivalent to more than six times Norway’s emissions because we are a rich and resource-rich country – six times. If we are to follow the last recommendation, we need to do a lot of climate action in countries other than Norway. A climate responsibility of this size means that, because we are a rich country, we take a solid responsibility to settle and pay for the climate change needs of poor countries – there was a lot on the agenda in Lima. SV believes it would be the most tidy for the Norwegian climate debate in the future if we were to set a specific target for Norway's emissions target and another target for helping poor countries with climate change. One of the major disadvantages of the climate measurement in the Great Britain climate settlement is that it is complicated to understand where we want emissions for 2020 to lie. My party has not concluded on what should be Norway's climate goals, but we believe the goal should be determined based on what it is fair that Norway takes on climate responsibility. SV also believes that it is important that matters about the measurements are handled in Stortinget. So I look forward to the further debate and am pleased with the big message that comes in February. We have some common approaches to climate policy with the other smaller parties on the Stortinget. For this reason, our leader, Lysbakken, has sent a special invitation to the party leaders in the Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Green Party to discuss whether we can come up with something together, as a start. I'm impatient on behalf of our Earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1055	First, thank you to the interpellant who takes up and keeps warm a matter that we have to spend a lot of time and political energy on. The starting point, as everyone knows, is that the gap between climate policy and climate change is increasing – it is not going the right way, it is going the wrong way. There is only one answer to that, and it is: significantly more ambitious, more committed and more effective climate policy than what we are conducting today. What the EU has provided us with is very positive, because it provides a framework for the future climate policy debate that we are going to have here in Norway, which is very useful and very clarifying. This is a framework which, firstly, contains much more ambitious emission cuts than what Norway currently has, which, secondly, is politically significantly more committed in its mechanisms than Norway currently has, and which, thirdly, contains a three-part objective rather than a one-off target. Over the past 10 years, the three-part objective in the EU has proved to be a very effective way of implementing emission reductions and a necessary change in technology, a green transition. As several speakers have already pointed out, it is very natural for Norway to use the EU as a template and framework and to draw close to the EU’s objectives. The Green Party wanted to go even further than the EU decision, which is a compromise – 40 pst. Cut, cut, 40 pst. cut is not an extreme variant of EU policy. The Greens wanted 55 p.m., and there were actually quite a number of others who wanted to be cut as well. 40 pst. is therefore the negotiated result – it is worth noting. Then the Council of State comes home from Lima and has worked hard and well there. We have been quite clear from the Green Party that the agreement on an agreement concluded in Lima is an agreement on almost nothing, and that has an ambition level that is in practice extremely much lower than the original expectation and the original objective of an international commitment agreement in Copenhagen in 2009. But there are good elements to what has happened in Lima. Firstly, 195 countries – approximately – have committed themselves to tackling climate problems. Secondly, there are now demands for clarity, transparency and understanding in the climate objectives, as the Council of State pointed out – I will come back to that a little, because there is no obvious Norwegian climate policy. And thirdly, the ball is back at each country. Now it is no longer possible to point out that climate problems need to be resolved in a way through an international mechanism that will then come home to us and help us do the job at home. Now it's the other way around, now the job has to be done at home. That is why we would like to welcome the government's notice that there is a big deal coming in February with climate targets, even though I notice the term 'an indicative commitment', which must now mean. It doesn't sound very obligating, and that's something we're going to have to work with in Stortinget. It is worth noting the formulation of Lima: clarity, transparency and understanding. This is the very opposite of what characterises the climate agreement and the description of Norwegian climate policy today. The sentence about cutting 30 pst. in relation to a 2007 national budget reference point when the forest is included, which is the cut-off heading that we have here in Norway, there are very few people who understand the content of it. You have to calculate for quite a long time before you figure out what the effect of it is: that Norway should cut about 5 pst. at home. But we haven't, because we've used quota purchases as an excuse not to do the job at home. What must be the result of the development we are now in and of all the good rhetoric that we are now hearing in the Chamber is an objective of a Norwegian climate policy based on perfectly clear, fully committed and politically understandable objectives in Norwegian climate policy. It will put the necessary pressure behind the implementation of a climate policy at a level of ambition that is much greater than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1072	I record in the debate that the representative Terje Aasland describes the Progress Party as a demanding party to the government. I can assure the Labour Party and Terje Aasland that we are by no means a demanding party in this context. The party for progress is concerned with climate and climate targets. We are concerned with cost-effective climate goals and policies, and we are concerned that a symbolic policy that is simply to the detriment of the target is not being pursued, and we are concerned with carrots rather than whippings in climate policy. We are also concerned that we should not set ourselves such a high target that we get so-called carbon leakage, because we are not at all likely to chase jobs and industry out of the country, and to the countries that are least concerned with the emission problem. Negotiations in Lima, as well as previous negotiations, have shown that these countries exist, and would like to put chains in the wheels of a global agreement. There is the problem and the challenge. What is needed is a global agreement, where the major emissions nations too are affected. The Progress Party is behind a government statement saying that we should strengthen the climate agreement, a settlement where the Labour Party did everything they could to keep the Advance Party outside, and they were happy. But we're going to show that we as parties to the agreement are to trust in this government. Then the interpellant is concerned about the importance of the EU's climate targets for Norway's climate objectives, and it is clear that it is important, especially because we are close to the EU in economic, cultural and cooperation terms. Therefore, the road is just across the border into the EU, even if we free ourselves from this partner that is important to our business life. Then I also record that the ambitions of the Workers' Party and among the red-green parties are increasing significantly now that one has come into opposition, and that's perhaps good, because in position they weren't all the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1085	This debate shows that this is a matter on which there is really a great deal of agreement here on the Storting, both in terms of achieving clear and realistic climate objectives, and in terms of bringing forward measures to achieve this objective. You kind of fight to be the best. It's great, but the most important thing is that we agree on these things together. I agree with what is being said that 2015 will be an important climate year, and in the wish to have a coherent and good process in the work on the promised big business message. It'll be important. I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate on a very important topic, and it may well be that the Council of State has today received some input into the forthcoming big message. Since it is the last day of the meeting in 2014, I allow myself to wish the Council of State and her staff and good colleagues here in Stortinget a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1094	I would also like to thank you for the debate. Norway is pursuing an ambitious climate policy and, fortunately, there is a broad political consensus on strong national instruments. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has clearly shown that everyone must step up their efforts if we are to limit global warming to less than two degrees. That's what this is all about. Without strong measures, climate change will become increasingly strong, and we will reach the limit of what we can adapt to. Through a reinforced focus on climate technology, the government contributes to the development of low-carbon technologies and to the deployment of technology. We're doing a job now by betting on a low-emission vehicle. We are also involved in global efforts to develop carbon capture and storage technologies, and we support Europe in the transition to renewable energy with our manageable power generation. We are involved in financing climate action through the Green Climate Fund and with our quota purchases, and we are involved in reducing deforestation through forest management. But this doesn't mean we're going to lean back and say that we've done enough. The knowledge base we have received from the Environment Directorate points to many opportunities for increased efforts in Norway to accelerate the transition to low-carbon societies that we need and that the government has said we are doing. The report from the New Climate Economy points to the importance of facilitating the low-carbon society through efficiency, innovation and the right infrastructure, and that is precisely what we now need to work on in the future. The size will be invited to discuss the content and the device of our indicative conditional emission targets, which will be submitted next quarter. I would also like to thank you, since it is the last debate in Stortinget for my part this year, for many good climate debates in 2014. I look forward to the debates we will have in 2015, for 2015 will be an important year for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1105	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1119	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party Group and 5 minutes to the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1126	I would like to congratulate the Minister for Climate Change on the efforts in Lima. It is for once an overlap between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Environment, so I want to do it – on behalf of the Committee, I think. So to what is the occasion of the matter and the last debate we have before Christmas, which is questions relating to the year we have left behind – the recent ageing of the budget for 2014. As evidenced by the case papers, there is a state of solid finances that we have. The total surplus on the State budget and the State pension fund in 2014 is now estimated at over 300 billion. kr. It's huge sums. At the same time, just since the government introduced this proposition, evolution shows that numbers can swing a lot. The fall of the oil price in the last few weeks has significantly affected the theoretical numerical sizes only since the new aging was presented by the government. It has been striking for the points we have had in the Storting relating to the budget – the presentation of the budget, the consideration of the financial position and this matter – that there has been a significant change in macro numbers. We also see that the oil fund is larger than ever, and now it's over 6,000 billion. kr. If this happens, it means that we spend less on the oil fund than on very, very long. I do not need to go into all the small changes proposed in this balancing position, and would just point to two points, which is a follow-up from the budgetary agreement. First, until the compensation for VAT that sports around the country had expected to receive. Because of big business and strong commitment, we get to say -- and we're very happy about that -- they haven't been refunded as much as they had reason to expect. Therefore, the provision is increased, so that the sports teams that have done a solid job, among other things. had a lot of work to do, and now the VAT costs are compensated for by almost 100 p.p. This also includes the ordinary budget and the treatment of it of a desire to amend that mechanism so that it becomes further predictable for sport. We are pleased that we have reached an agreement on this. The second point concerns the allocation of the Copernicus programme, which is of great importance for both space and related Norwegian industry. I see that with the appropriations we are now making, we are also ending an uncertainty that may have been there related to the commitment that Norway has had in this programme. I think that will also be confirmed when we see the revised national budget. In conclusion, there are some worrying times in some industries. At the same time, industries are seeing new opportunities, not least the export industry. The crown course also has the effect that Industry-Norway looks positive in 2015, but there are also pockets where you will notice that there is a new situation. I would ask the government to pay attention to this and come back to Stortinget when necessary. The Norwegian State has instruments — not to prevent a necessary conversion, but instruments that can be used if needed to cross a stumbling block or two at a given stage. It's important to separate that. I recommend it and wish the Council of State and Committee members – and the President – a Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1145	At the end of the year it is tempting to go into a summary of the political course of the harvest. I'll make it very short. On the part of the Labour Party, we appreciate the initiative taken by the parties to review the best possible way in which the budgetary procedure in the Stortinge is to be conducted. There has been a demanding harvest, probably the most for those who have been responsible for negotiating a majority behind the budget, but also for us who make up the minority. To say it a little bit with the customer today: we haven't exactly had optimal working conditions, with constant pushing of deadlines and a very close run to get into port. I think we all have a common interest in providing us with settings that have been well treated in the committee. We've all had to stretch far to get to it this year. We have several important processes ahead of us in the coming years that require a good spirit of cooperation here at Stortinget: follow-up of the Scheel Committee's report, evaluation of pension reform and not least the design of climate policy. I think there's a lot of learning to extract from this harvest in that way. So to the matter that we actually have to deal with, the new aging. There has been a previous debate we used to have on various Progress Party proposals, for example 25 billion. for the balancing of tolls and the lifting of VAT and customs duties on imports of pigmeat in order to ensure people's ribs for Christmas. I'm recording that the times are changing. Today we should have had a debate that had ended with a handshake to all the municipalities that are now experiencing serious tax failure. The last number we've been dealing with is 2.8 billion. kr. That's a lot of money. The November figures for the tax intake existed earlier today, and the total tax failure continues, without me here and now knowing how this actually affects the local government sector. The Minister of Finance might be able to tell you that if there were, it would have been very nice to get a picture of that. Obviously, the situation in Kommune-Norway is not serious enough for the majority, the issue of care for the elderly – yes, care for all groups – children and young people, school and much more affected. Statutory tasks are also challenged. There should be no need for the cuts that we now see in the municipal sector to be carried out, when we see how much we have of oil revenues it is possible to use, and how much the majority can afford to use for large tax cuts, especially for the most prosperous in this country. You can push the principles ahead and say that municipalities have to endure failure, when you have been so lucky to keep extra income when there has been more tax growth. But we in the Workers' Party, together with the other red-greens, make a political assessment of what is needed in the municipalities now, of the situation of our main welfare services and whether the state can afford to set up now. That's what it says. We have, like the government, taken into account that municipalities have less expenditure than what has been laid down in relation to demography, compared to the original state budget. But when we take that into account, we're left with 2 billion. kr, which we propose to be compensated for in the current year. I then take up the proposal that is at the top of page 20 of the setting, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. And finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their friendly tone, good cooperation, effective management – especially for the Seven, naturally enough, which is the leader – and I would also like to thank you for normal progress. I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for his cooperation. Sometimes we don't fully agree, but in any case there is a majority in me and in our party that we all want a really good Christmas – and even a good new year!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1166	It's exciting to know that you've taken a vote to see if it's a majority to say good Christmas and good new year, and I'm happy for this democracy. The representative Hagebakken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1171	It is true, as the chairman of the Committee says, that the new age also shows that Norway has a very good national economy and a state economy. At the same time, the economy has fluctuated every time the Committee has met in this room during this harvest, two to three times. The exchange rate is changing, the oil price is falling, and it's relatively turbulent, but we have a very solid economy and are able to withstand the fluctuations that are coming. That's why it's important not to exaggerate the risk of what's happening around us. There's a few days of development in a very long time in a very solid Norwegian economy. It also bears the effusion of effusion. It's not the big things that come up here. I would like to attach a few words to the contributions of the representative, Mr Hagebakken, on local economy. It is a fact that there has been a principle of changing governments over many years that municipalities have retained the increased tax revenue. It has given the municipalities many, many billions – perhaps up to 20 billion. kr in recent decades – but the opposite has also been that it has not been compensated when it has gone the other way. It is natural that local authorities too should give priority. And it's not that the growth now has been bad. Both in 2011, 2012 and 2013 there was a lower room for action than it has been in 2014. So I am somewhat surprised at the recent change in the course and principles of the Workers' Party, for some of the important things for the municipalities are predictability. I also noticed the two-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr – while we, the majority, are revising the adopted budget, the alternative budget of the Labour Party and the Red-Greens, from last autumn, is revised. You have to allow that, but when you see the situation around you, and when you hear the discussion in this room about the use of oil money, it might also send out some signals to the world around us right now. To get back to the economic situation in Norway: I think we have to look in our eyes that we have not undergone any conversion – we have had good import opportunities, we have had cheap imports, we have had expensive oil – it has not been necessary, it has happened too little over many years. Now we're going to be intrusive, not because there's a crisis, but because the oil industry is seeing a deterioration. Other industry, other business, must then come forward and up. We have to stimulate that in different ways. Of course, the state can do that. There is no need for any crisis packages at the moment, but I agree with the chairman of the committee, who says that this needs to be taken into account. The important thing must be to release private capital. This hall always fully agrees when it comes to granting more state capital to business. Without evaluations, without reviews, without research, politicians are completely in agreement that it's going to work, it's going to be fine. But if it's about stimulating private capital, then you can't find evidence, then there's no assessment, then there's not enough macro-economics saying that this works – except that business itself says it works. It's a cross of thought. Finally, just a small matter from aging, that is, this with Copernicus. Here's a note about accomplices. It is not just a comment, it is, in my view, a clear and clear commitment from the majority parties that this will be ensured through 2015. It is clear and clear from here. I would like to repeat the amicable tone of the Workers' Party spokesman today, Tore Hagebakken, to wish each other a Merry Christmas. We will try to ensure that the Committee also has the best possible working conditions in the future budgets, but, of course, working conditions are often also a matter of self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1188	The new age is not really very exciting. This is largely due to technical adjustments, and therefore there is no need to spend a lot of time on it. It's a little politics. The few things that are inside of a political nature, it's done well for. One is the VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities, which are also dealt with in the Family and Culture Committee and all adopted here in the Stortinget. Then we have this thing that's inside of Copernicus, where one takes 167 million. kr from the year’s budget in the new age period and as a result of the fact that there is a quota to be paid in the current year. And then one also has an obligatory note that the remaining $30 million. kr, which is a national follow-up budget, is due in 2015 and therefore aims – and promises here – to put it in place in the revised national budget. I agree with those who have been up here and said that we have an uncertain value and an uncertain economic situation. That's absolutely right. But at the same time, few countries have a better basis than Norway has to deal with an uncertain future. It has already been mentioned that the oil fund is record large. It's bigger than anything, and it gives us a good basis to tackle any challenges ahead. Now, the state budget has taken all the necessary steps to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises. One has lowered taxes and taxes that make one stand better rusted. One has record investments in infrastructure, road and rail. Never before has there been more investment in road and rail than it will be next year, and this will lead to a reduction in transport costs, both for businesses and for individuals. In addition, a set of simplification work has been carried out and the form field is loose. It will provide additional improvements for enterprises and reduces costs for the production of goods and services in Norway. That's a good basis. Then I am completely relaxed and sure that the government will follow this development very closely and come back to Stortinget if at some point there is a need for it. But initially, we have just adopted a government budget that is well suited to the challenges we face, and then, of course, we have to follow developments further. Now this is called the municipal economy, and the practice of the majority is that the municipalities must have a robust framework, and that is that a few keep increasing tax revenue, but then one must take a load if the tax revenue fails. So here's one of the practices that's been followed over a long time. Then I will finish by thanking you for a good cooperation in the year that has gone by. I think it's very nice that we have some good qualities in Norway, that we can be very disagreeable about it, but we're not used to it. We can have a good tone even if we are disunity political, and I think we have had it in the committee and in all cooperation. It has been a good year, even though it has our hectic and labor demands at times. Then I'll finish by wishing everyone good Christmas and good new year, and then we'll see you next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1207	Abraham Lincoln said when he changed his position in one matter: I don't give much to a man who is not wiser today than he was yesterday. He had got a new insight then. That is why I have tried to read a little about what Gjermund Hagesetter has planned over time, about tax failure and local economy. I found a private proposal from the Landfill representatives Per Sandberg and Gjermund Hagesetter that dealt with the tax failure of municipalities in 2004. I find it sad that Mr Hagesetter has changed his point of view on this matter, because this is where it says, among other things. in the proposal: ‘It is important to stress that the local government sector depends on predictability in order to provide its citizens with quality services.’ Hagesetter and Sandberg were very clear that if you did not compensate for the tax failure you saw in 2004, there would be a crisis in the municipalities of the country. But thanks to persistent efforts, including: by the Chairman of the Financial Committee at that time, additional appropriations were made available to municipalities in the light of the tax failure. Gérmund Hagesetter then said in a state of joy – after having compensated the municipalities after the tax failure – that ‘we have achieved significant improvements to put an end to the unworthy conditions in which many sick and old live’. In 2004, Siv Jensen was also very clear that it really makes no sense that municipalities should not be compensated when tax revenue fails. Siv Jensen said to Bergen's Official Journal: «Today it is such that the State literally compensates the State for lost income. The same principle must apply to municipalities, as our rapporteurs have also pointed out." There has been tax failure for municipalities twice in the last ten years — it was in 2004, and it was in the context of the financial crisis. In 2004, the Progress Party pressed for compensation for the municipalities, precisely because they were concerned with the relationship with the elderly. When it was a financial crisis, the government took the initiative itself, the government I was part of, because we thought it was important not to have a slowdown in the municipality's activity, even if the tax revenues failed. Now we are up in the third time in ten years as there is tax failure in Norwegian municipalities, and then the Progress Party has gained power. And once the Progress Party has gained power, it is clearly quite possible that there will be worse care and care around the country – because that is the result! It might be a tax failure of about three billion. kr, and when more than half of the municipal expenditure goes to care and they have to cut to finance that tax deficit, that is where it has to be cut, it has to pay something. When we see the figures we see for the Norwegian economy now, when we see the tax deficit we see now towards the end of the year, it is very likely that the estimates in the government budget for next year on tax revenue will prove to be wrong. There are many things that point to the fact that it's going to be lower tax revenue than we think, because of failing assumptions in the Norwegian economy. Then I find it strange that the Progress Party and the Right are so principled that regardless of whether reality changes in all sorts of ways, you should not see how reality is out in Norwegian municipalities. As reality is out in Norwegian municipalities now, it's cut instead of bet. Then I'll find another quote from Siv Jensen. It's not a text message - it's a quote. It's from the election campaign last summer, where Siv Jensen says, "That's enough." We need predictability in the care of the elderly. That is why we need government funding. It should not be the case that one has an elderly care based on the fluctuating local economy. If you are in favour of state funding, which is the Progress Party, it is precisely because you are too predictable. And when we have a different system, and you see that the conditions within the system we now have are failing, then the Progress Party should be the first party to agree to give more money to the old people of the country. But now the Progress Party has become so concerned with budgetary balance, 'technicities' and 'principles' that one forgets John Alvheim's old spirit; one must be more concerned with older than with being the extended arm of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1238	The President expects that it is the current Minister of Finance and the former Siv Jensen Depositary Representative that the representative has referred to as just Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1241	When we now do the last management of the state budget in 2014, there is growing uncertainty about important developments in the Norwegian economy and much more alarming than we thought just a short time ago. I addressed this issue with the Minister of Finance in yesterday's Question Time and should not repeat much of the same thing here. Nevertheless, I am a thought eighty-eight of the slightly different signals that came from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister during yesterday. While the finance minister thinks that there is nothing new in the situation we are now experiencing, in today's business today, and that we are in every way well adapted to the future, so my prime minister in the newspaper today that Norway must be transformed from an oil nation to a green economy faster than she and the government have trusted to now. Now, of course, it is the role of the Minister of Finance to send out a calm signal in a troubled market, but let me nevertheless say, not surprisingly, that I am more in agreement with the Prime Minister than with the Minister of Finance. Nor do I share the claim made by the Minister of Finance in the same interview in DN today: ‘Therefore there is a need for the other batches that would tighten [the use of oil money] to go on their own.’ In this context, even though I'm really prepared to walk in myself from time to time, I don't feel a desperate need to do that, or to go anywhere else. The left presented a government budget proposal for next year, which contained both monthly and targeted taxes on business, which convert Norway into a green economy much faster than the government proposed. At the same time, there was a slightly less use of oil money. What I really mean is both responsible and to set up for the future. We also see some clear signals about a new time in the document we are currently handling. For the first time in a very, very long time, we have a new aging that's being settled with increased oil money usage compared to what's taken up in the RNB. There is a major failure in the tax revenue, which primarily reflects lower surplus in Norwegian companies, and the revenue from the petroleum industry is 3.3 billion. kr lower than expected. In addition, petroleum taxes and taxes have been adjusted down by 10.1 billion. kr. I agree with the Minister of Finance that we do not have a crisis now, and that in many ways we are well-informed and better than most other countries. But it can soon be a crisis if we don't do things in advance, but rather wait and see if evolution turns a little by itself. Proxy settings may be required, and the longer we expect, the more required it may be. Therefore, I hope and believe that within a short time the government will take the necessary steps to precisely convert Norway from an oil nation to a green economy, as the Prime Minister announces. I point out a few necessities in that way. We need a large-scale commitment, of course, to research and innovation, especially within climate-friendly solutions – the red-green drool core must be replaced by an explosive long-range. We need a full review of the state capital supply to Norwegian businesses and entrepreneurs – Me and Left want a full review of Investinor, Argentum and Innovation Norway. I'm quite sure that all the billions that are there, sometimes unused, can be used better and more forward-looking towards a new green economy. Not least, we need to focus on the most important competitive advantage we have, innovation capacity in the world class. And, of course, we must have a full focus on modernisation at all levels of the public sector. The government has a very good job in that way. Much more can be done. Of course, digitisation and procurement are two important areas. In addition, the State should be a driver for municipalities to benefit fully from the enormous efficiency and simplification gains of systematic digitisation of public services and services. Finally, I would like to thank both the members of the Finance Committee and the Minister for Finance for a very good jol! Together, we have made some important and correct decisions in the last year. The coming year is likely to require even more of us than the year we are now behind us. On behalf of the Left, I would like to say that in that case we are ready to contribute to the joint effort we have to do, even if then and water will be at the cost of our own primary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1268	I fully agree with the representative Breivik in the excellence of the work, and I think we need more work in Norway. In many ways it is a political year that we now spend in Norway, where hard work is given a smaller place in Norwegian policy: less well-being, great cuts in welfare schemes for those who need it the most, and not least a direct small asylum and refugee policy. We do not accept so many refugees from the greatest refugee disaster since World War II as we should, and neither has the government gone off the road to claim that the municipalities of Norway do not have the capacity to accept, for example. the 123 injured Syrian refugees proposed by SV. Then it turns out that this is not the case: a number of major cities have made decisions in their local government that several Syrian refugees are warmly welcomed by them. Then it became silent by the government. Just a few days ago, the great majority of Stortinget voted to accept these refugees. It's a sad start to Christmas for Stortinget. Now there may be a self-fulfilling prophecy in the government's persistent resistance to compensating for the failing tax entrance to the municipalities, for it is clear that there will be less capacity, for example. in the health services of municipalities, infirmaries, offers for people with trauma, offers on the school page, etc. if you do not compensate for the tax failure. We in SV use this opportunity to propose to accept 123 injured, Syrian war refugees, who, frankly, should just be lacking that Norway cannot accept, and which I am very surprised that even the Left and Christian People's Party does not support. We propose to compensate for the failure of municipalities in tax access. I notice the polemics from the Left when it comes to oil money. I might have been a little careful to do so in view of the state budget for next year that has just been adopted, where the Left has no problem matching the oil money consumption of Minister of Finance Siv Jensen in what is a historically expansive state budget in terms of oil money use. I would like to make suggestions both in relation to the Syrian refugees and to the failure of the municipal tax authorities. And it is a proposal for, and it is a'solved proposal', proposal No. 6, originally from Ingunn Gjerstad on behalf of SV, which reads: ‘The Government is not asked to use funds on the ground for E18 Ramstadsletta-Lysaker.’ We are promoting this proposal in the context of rehabilitating because we are not represented in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and so that we can vote for it. Then I would also like to take the opportunity to wish both the Minister of Finance, the President and the Finance Committee a Merry Christmas. It has been one, if not the other, very exciting and instructive harvest. But I have to admit that I hope there will only be two more such harvests before there is another majority of the Stortinges who decide in budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1292	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1295	It has been interesting to have the opportunity to observe the consequences of political hate exchange on the block this year. It's been instructive for a new party. It has been promising in the sense that the debate at Stortinget on the future of Norway, on how to invest our money, has become quite refreshing. It's healthy. And this debate on the ejaculation takes place on a day when there is more speed in thinking about the need to convert Norway than perhaps someone had imagined not so long ago. This debate, which we have today, should, of course, be based on the fact that, on the part of the government, there were already proposed measures and changes in a magnitude that actually contribute to the conversion of the Norwegian economy and that actually contribute to the green shift, the government often talks about – at least on festive occasions. We should see what the Green Party has proposed, namely a real shift from the inputs that are still mainly used today to make Norway an oil nation for as long as possible, to use the same inputs to build up the green, sustainable circuit industry and business that we need to build up. There should be a debate based on the fact that, on the part of the government, it was already proposed that social development should not be based on increased consumption as the continuing main instrument and welfare objective, but on developing a society where the quality of life is what we are trying to achieve. There should be a debate based on the fact that we are now using what is still a wonderful opportunity for Norway to become one of the first countries to enter the sustainable, life-quality circular economy we need to enter. We're obviously not there right now, but when I hear the rhetoric in this room and elsewhere, I'm looking at the possibility that we can get a little bit faster there, but that means in future balancing debates we're going to have to make a stronger deal with the tendency to think that you can make a change while you invest in the opposite. Finally, I would like to make a proposal like the Green Party last week, a visit. It's a proposal that reads: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case on the further development of the Svalbard community, focusing on sustainability, environmental research, a renewable energy base and new economic pathways.’ That proposal fell due to a wrong vote, and I'm taking it up again now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1315	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1318	Today, the Stortinget deals with the budget for 2014 for the third time. The starting point is a budget in which the government, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, took more action to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness through the additional proposition and negotiations in the Stortinget. We lowered taxes and taxes, strengthened research, infrastructure and innovation, and we laid the foundations for reform work, innovation and structural changes that can equip Norway for the future. The 2014 budget took into account uncertainty. During the budget debate a year ago, I underlined that the Norwegian economy has some long-term challenges, and the uncertainty has increased. The Prime Minister said the same thing. When we presented the budget for 2015, we also underlined that the Norwegian economy was probably at a turning point, where the growth impulses of the oil industry would slow down. We pointed out that the fall in oil prices could lead to a faster decline in oil demand than expected. The oil price has fallen from $151 per barrel in June to a level about $60 per barrel now. It gives lower revenues to the country but also the revenues of the oil companies fall. In some areas, the development of the Norwegian economy is slightly weaker than that of last year’s harvest. The estimate of taxes paid by the mainland economy in 2014 has fallen by just under 24 billion. kr throughout the year. The majority can be traced back to the cyclical situation and other transient conditions. At the same time, the net expenditure of the State budget has also been reduced. It's drawing in the opposite direction. In total, the estimated use of oil revenues in 2014 is set at just over 2 billion. kr since last autumn. This is good within the variations that we've seen in previous years. Rehabilitation is primarily a technical review of the budget and, in line with the budgetary agreement for 2015, Norwegian participation in a new phase of the Copernicus European Space Programme is recommended. The tax entrance to the municipalities seems to be 2 billion. kr lower than expected this year. The municipalities want to have their own tax revenue, it gives them freedom, but with freedom also comes responsibility for their own economy, and of course in their planning, municipalities have to take account of fluctuations in tax revenue. For nine consecutive years, municipal tax revenue has been higher than expected, and this money has been retained by municipalities. In 2012, for example, it gave the municipalities a total of 5.7 billion. kr extra income. But a good system must work both ways, as the local authority's own organisation, KS, emphasizes. We have to see the whole economic structure of the municipalities. It's a good setup. The municipal scheme for 2015 provides room for further development of the municipal service provision. Following the agreement in the Storting on the budget for next year, the real growth of the total income of the local government sector can be estimated at 7.8 billion. kr in 2015. That's 2.8 billion. kr higher than the upper limit in the range notified in the Municipal Proposition for 2015. The growth of free income is clearly higher than the increase in expenditure resulting from population developments and pension costs. We are approaching 2015, and we are in front of a year that can be demanding, and even more demanding than anyone had imagined a short time ago. The cover in the demand from the oil industry puts our ability to convert to testing. Norway today has a good starting point for meeting such changes. Unemployment is low, employment is high. Low oil prices are also positive for oil importing countries and can boost global economic growth. Together with a weaker krone, it can contribute to increased exports of Norwegian manufactured goods and services. Weaker crowns are also a support for companies that compete on a Norwegian base and in other parts of our domestic market. At the same time, it underlines the need for growth-enhancing measures that help us to stand more rusty in the future. The Norwegian economy has several lines of defence. The adjustments made by enterprises, households and workers in the markets are undoubtedly the most important. And on the part of the authorities, monetary policy is a first-line defence. We have a high level of preparedness on the part of the government and follow developments closely. If the situation requires it, we are ready to respond quickly and make proposals to the Storing if necessary. Then I will finally be allowed to thank for good cooperation through 2014 and wish the Stortinget a really good Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1344	Thank you very much for that. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1349	I notice that the Minister of Finance says that the tax deficit in the municipalities is now expected to be 2 billion. kr in the current year. Then I have to ask: is it so that there are better figures and better forecasts after the November figures, which the Minister of Finance probably has more detailed information about than what I have, or is it such that the Minister of Finance has deducted from the smaller costs that the municipalities will have as a result of a lower development in the demographic? And then I also have to ask, is it so that whatever happens to the tax revenue in Kommune-Norway next year, it's the numbers that now apply, that stand there, and that the municipalities only have to deal with, because that's predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1354	We also had a round of this during the spontaneous question hour yesterday when the municipalities' tax revenues were an important question from Stortinget. I would like to repeat what I said. Firstly, we have a good arrangement for municipalities in 2015 that ensures that we develop important welfare tasks in municipalities next year as well. I also want to repeat what I said in my post, namely that the practice that this government also followed, which was also followed by the previous government, is in line with what KS himself wants, namely that the system and the model should go both ways. It is a good system that ensures the predictability of municipalities, especially in a situation where they can enter into 2015 with a good growth in the overall transfers to municipalities, and not least in the free revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1361	I did not really get an answer to the core of my question, and it is: what is the real tax failure – is it 2 billion. kr, is it lighting, or is it the status quo, but has one then subtracted from the changes in the demography? It's a little bit important, because there's a lot of money in the difference for Municipality-Norway. So I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: does the Minister of Finance worry that there is so much welfare going on now that affects the elderly, other caring, children and young people out in the municipality of Norway? How does the Progress Party actually define – and the government, I'm told – predictability? Is that what Hagesetter says, that a failure of maybe up to 3 billion. kr, which is the last number we've been dealing with, is the optimal predictability and a brilliant example of that for Kommune-Norway? For my own part, I think that Kommune-Norge could also wish for a system where it was such that the figures on which the government provided revenues were also those who actually applied if there were fluctuations. There are a lot of municipalities that could have wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1370	I notice that the Workers' Party repeatedly makes the claim that we are now facing a large welfare charge in the municipalities. We have had close and ongoing contact with KS about the local economy next year and have received very good feedback on the overall growth that will allow municipalities to strengthen the welfare offer next year. I'm very pleased with that. It may not fit completely into the picture the Workers' Party wants to draw from the situation, but the truth is that the local economy is also growing next year. Then it can't be less well-being. It is also the case, as I said yesterday, that the municipalities also have an efficiency potential, and the municipalities also have a responsibility to decide what they choose to spend money on. I expect them to solve the most important problems first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1375	I took a look at KS’s websites before I went into the debate, and I registered that they found that after the budget agreement, the local government sector moved to another 1.5 billion. kr, and that KS had received a lot of insight for what they thought was the most important view from the local government sector, next year. That being said, and there's a significant future failure in tax revenue, it also becomes a theme for this hall as we get a bigger picture. I think there's a reason to look at that. My question as we approach Christmas is: What Christmas gift will the Minister of Finance want for Norwegian economy in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1383	I fully agree with the representative Syversen that we must, of course, follow developments closely, also for the municipal sector through 2015. Unless something very special should happen for the Norwegian economy, the revised budget for 2015 is the first point of reconciliation for it. So the question of the Christmas gift for the Norwegian economy. The Government's main Christmas gift to the Norwegian economy is the budget that Stortinget has just adopted. It is a budget that is well adapted to the Norwegian economy and that responds to many of the migration challenges we face. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has set in motion very important and absolutely necessary reform work in a wide range of areas. Many of the reforms will pass the Stortinge in the time to come, and will be an essential part of the transition we have apparently long seen to have to face the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1390	John Alvheim was the clear and clear senior general of the Progress Party. He represented Telemark here at Stortinget. A few days ago, I was in a radio debate where there was an entry from Drangedal, where they had to cut from two night shifts to one because of the failure of income in the municipalities. The person interviewed had been on the bathroom floor for an hour and a half and was afraid that if there were fewer night shifts, he would have to lie even longer. The same kind of stories we hear from around Norway. But then the Progress Party has lulled into a reality that everything that looks good on the paper is also good out in reality. The reality is that there is bone toughness in Norwegian municipalities. Then my question to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen is: Why was the Progress Party in principle to compensate for failing tax revenue in 2004, but is now in principle opposed? What's changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1397	I thank you for the question, because it gives me an opportunity to say a little bit about the commitment of the Progress Party to care for the elderly. We are now, as we have always been, concerned that care for the elderly should be good. It shall be multifaceted and shall be so arranged as to ensure that it is best suited to the needs of the individual elderly. Some people need sick homes, others want good services and security in order to stay as much as possible in owner-occupied dwellings. This is why it is so important that the government on the broad front takes action in cooperation with the municipalities to achieve this. We've put in place a system where the state takes half the bill when the municipalities build hospitals. We prioritise quality and capacity in the healthcare sector, we strengthen the skills of employees, we introduce a municipal health and care register, we look into a proposal for a permanent representative and user selection, and we want to introduce quality indicators for the care sector – to mention some of the important areas in which the government is now working to strengthen care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1404	If a government does little and gives little money, you take a lot of individual measures, so that you have to act as a man. This is what is seen from the Progress Party in the policy of the elderly – there are many measures, but little action. The best thing – or the worst – is to set 20 million. to seek out a pilot scheme for government funding - to investigate trials. The question remains: why is it possible this year not to compensate for the tax error of over 2 billion? In 2004, it was thought that it was unimportant not to do so, and then Bondevik II was able to do so because of the care of the elderly? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1411	The usual thing for the Progress Party, too, has been to follow the system that we have all maintained: that the tax revenues of the municipalities, whether they are positive or negative, are to be borne by the municipalities, that they should keep the profits and take responsibility for the deficit – to put it simply. 2004 was a special year, when the then government, in cooperation with the Stortinget, chose to compensate for the tax failure. I would like to remind the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, that the total transfers to the municipalities were much smaller than they are today, and the tax deficit was greater. It tells everyone that the need was greater than it is now. Now we are in a situation where transfers to municipalities will be significantly strengthened next year. The KS itself expresses satisfaction with the situation, and I believe that we have delivered it. In the case of a pilot scheme with state funding, there is a great opportunity to get the ‘benchmarket’ existing system – with a wide variation in the elderly care of municipalities – with a state funding system, in which the Progress Party has believed for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1420	Yesterday, in the Questionnaire, I asked the Minister of Finance about the quality of care for the elderly in the municipalities. Then I got a long answer about investment schemes and the number of hospital places, etc., but that's not what I asked about. I asked a very simple question, which I give the Minister of Finance an opportunity to answer: Does the Minister of Finance think that the municipalities will have better or worse framework conditions for good care for the elderly next year when the municipalities have a tax deficit of 2 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1425	When the local economy is strengthened by almost 8 billion. kr next year, there is a very good starting point for enhanced welfare production in municipalities next year. That said, we are also concerned that the quality of various public care services should be the best possible. I think we can all agree that when there are reports that reveal unworthy circumstances, both the municipalities, as the most responsible, and we do something about it. That is precisely why I am pleased that the Minister of Health is so clear that it is primarily about improving the quality and competence of the sector, but at the same time it is about the way we choose to organise the service provision. This is an area where both the government and the Progress Party have a strong commitment, and we work closely with the municipalities to ensure that there will be better services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1430	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1435	I think the finance minister has to innovate that if the care of the elderly is to be good enough, it's about the people who work there, and it's about relationships and being able to be taken care of and care for when you need it. It's not always more effective. The councils were pleased with the Christmas gifts she had distributed this year. They became quite large and golden edged for those who already have good things in this country, but for the kids who have poor parents and rarely a crown left, there were no gifts, but they were allowed to join the split for the gifts of those who are most prosperous. There is much said about it, and I shall not say so much more, but it reminds me at least not very much of the message from Him we shall now celebrate, and for which Christmas is to honor. Business bets are also discussed. The reason for these unfair Christmas gifts that are being distributed now is that it is going to be so much better for business, and the Fleet was here on the pulpit instead and said that cut in the property tax was very well-founded, while direct investment in business was throwing money out of the window in a wild mess and without meaning. It's the opposite. What we're betting on business development schemes, we know what's going on. But if we grant money in relief from inheritance tax and property tax, we have no idea where it will go. And no economist has so far been able to prove that there will be more jobs of it. It's just going to be more unfair. This is a balancing – a technical review. Therefore, it could be expected that the government had taken the tax deficit in the municipal sector more seriously. I am now recording that the Minister of Finance cannot even answer the extent of the tax failure in fact, and I think that is very worrying. This is about uncertainty in the assumptions of the budget. That budget year will soon be over, and this will mean that the coming year will have to be cut. This is about predictability that it is necessary to have for those who are going to care for the elderly, because it is about hiring people, about planning, about qualifying and recruiting people to do these important jobs. It must be a paradox that Bergen was able to remove the property tax when SV was in government, while now when the Progress Party and the Right are in government, they see the need to reintroduce property tax in the municipality, with the budget that the Minister of Finance now boasts so much. I also want everyone a good Christmas, but I hope that by next Christmas we are able to distribute the Christmas presents to those who need them, and to those who can create a better future for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1450	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the very fine certificate she gives to the red-green government, when she says that the local economy has been strongly strengthened since 2004 and until today. Of course, I fully agree with that. But I'm worried when the Minister of Finance can't answer what the tax deficit in the municipalities now seems to be. There's a very big difference of 2 billion. kr and 2,8 br. kr. The reason I took the floor is that the Minister of Finance made a claim that this government follows the same practice as the former government in compensating for tax failure in the municipalities. That's not right. I just want to make it clear that the Labour Party has a pragmatic attitude to that question. We believe that it is the situation, the expectations of the municipalities and their economy, which determines whether we should compensate for taxes or not. But Siv Jensen is the one who has said that we should have as principle that taxes should be compensated for to the municipal sector. She was very clear on that in 2004, when, as Vice President and fiscal spokesman for the Progress Party, she negotiated with the Bondevik II government. The main requirement of the Progress Party vis-à-vis the Bondevik II parties was that the tax failure in the municipalities should be compensated. It supported the Workers' Party at that time. The next and last time there has been tax failure in municipalities was in 2009 in the context of the financial crisis. Then the red-green government went in to compensate for the tax failure. The party of progress supported it in opposition. But now that the Progress Party is in government and has the Minister of Finance, the tone is a completely different one. Then, suddenly, it is a principle that tax losses should not be compensated. I am also a little bit curious about the Minister of Finance's description of the reality of the municipalities, that there will be no welfare cuts. Well, KS has just presented a budget study that shows that it will be cut in many municipalities, and they have provided quite detailed examples of it as well. Overall, the study shows that there is a real decline in school investment, that a majority of municipalities, almost all of them, believe that they will not be re-introduced into the maintenance of the county road with the framework they have received, and the study also shows that four out of ten municipalities are planning to increase property tax, including the Right-Fremskritsparti-steerte municipalities such as Bergen. I doubt that the municipalities think it gives much more predictability that they will not be compensated for the tax failure. When the national government of the KS dealt with this, KS was split. Then it was the Right Party and the Advance Party that ensured that the government's position got through, but it was highly debated. Many municipalities are now solving this by increasing property tax. It must be a paradox for the Progress Party, that the richest will get rid of the wealth tax, but that most people will have to pay plastic bags and property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1465	I take the floor just to clarify what I think must be a misunderstanding with the representative Karin Andersen. I did not say that I was against direct investment in business. On the contrary, the Right has voted for a series of direct business bets along many lines in this room over the years. What I said was that we demand much less quality assurance of the results in this respect than those who oppose the investment in private capital require. It's no more than a day or two since we could read in the papers about significant losses in one of our investment companies. We know that the seed funds sometimes go badly. It's a calculated risk. We are to use these direct investments. In fact, I did not mention the word ‘tax on wealth’. Why is it so wrong that we stimulate private capital to invest in Norway? After all, most of the small and medium-sized enterprises in this country are financed by private capital. All of these jobs are created that way. It must also be seen in this debate. Then I want to add, since I have nevertheless restrained the Storting from taking the floor, that I am very happy that our partners in the budgetary agreement, the Christian People's Party and the Left, at this crossroads, where we look back at aging, also look forward to the situation we now have in the Norwegian economy, which is not in any way critical, but which is undoubtedly demanding, which is challenging, and which requires adjustments. I'm glad they're raising their eyes and looking forward. I do not mean by criticising those who are concerned with local economy, it is justified, but let me say about the local economy that it is a fact that the real growth is higher than it has been in quite many of the years that lie behind us. It's just looking at the numbers. It's not rhetoric -- it's quite clear numbers. And the study from the KS, how largely the advisers respond, also shows that compared to last year's survey, you have the same attitude to it: they say this is going to be difficult, it's going to be challenging and demanding. I believe that. I believe that every year, regardless of government, it is demanding to get the economy to hop in Norwegian municipalities. But it's a job the politicians take. I think they take it with great competence and with the goal of getting it into the municipalities around.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1473	I'm not going to take the SV off the exposure to vulnerable groups, but I might let myself mention to the SV's representatives that insofar as you're going to characterize others, you should at least include a slightly more comprehensive picture of the situation. So I expect it to be an oblivion from SV when you don't include a part of the positive that happens – in the budget – to vulnerable groups. That's why I took the word, to remind you of it, because it obviously needs to be remembered. After the red-green government had put family protection on the sod bed – as was the case – there has now been a real increase over two years, without comparison: we have strengthened the rush and psychiatry, both by giving our government mission letters to health businesses, and, in fact, by strengthening a wide range of voluntary offers that go directly to the most vulnerable groups. We have a number of quota refugees -- and if in the name of propriety you go back and see what the number was under the previous government, I think the number's speech is ready. We have a stake in personal user-driven assistance, which the previous government did not have at all power, and we have increased the number of organized jobs, and we have strengthened the early efforts in the school. I just remember this, since it had obviously gone into the forgetbook for some.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1482	No, it hadn't been in the forgetbook. If the representative of the Christian People's Party had heard of it, he would have heard that it was the government I criticized, not the Christian People's Party or the Left. I know they've improved the budget, and that's good. But that's not enough, and both parties had gotten a lot more out of their heart issues in collaboration with SV. In all of the matters that the representative Syversen now mentions, he had been better counted in collaboration with SV than with the parties he chooses to cooperate with. The Christian People's Party and the Left must also take responsibility for the coalition in which they want to cooperate. When the representative Fleet talks about quality assurance, I do not know what kind of quality assurance he is talking about when it comes to providing property taxes or removing the inheritance tax. At least there are no economists who agree with that way of doing it. I understand that it doesn't make a big impression on the Right People what, for example. French economist Thomas Piketty believes this, but the OECD should perhaps have a little resounding in the Right. It's not a think tank either for SV or for the left. They therefore believe that Norway is losing up to 9 pst. growth of inequality, and inequality increases with this budget. This way of distributing tax credits is hampering our future spring. That's why this is serious. It could perhaps be a thought for the Right rather to look at what SV has done in this area, namely to lower the corporate tax, which is directly to the companies and what they are going to have to deal with. I think it's a much better way to go if we want a bet on more jobs, to lower the tax on businesses, but keep the wealth tax, because it's a hugely important part of the distribution in society. And when the distribution in society gets better, that's when we share more, we create more. I suppose that should all agree that is a good strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1491	The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1494	I think the dream country of Piketty must be Norway, where there may be the smallest differences across Europe. When it comes to the OECD, we care a lot about it. The last report they made says that small differences are favourable, i.e. the favourable conditions for economic development and for the economy of Norway. It's pretty central. So also the OECD report, like Piketty, says that education is the very best way to create skills, of course, and to create new growth. Now this OECD report was a general report for the entire OECD area. In 2012, there was a country report for Norway. There, the OECD, as the Right also cared about, but as the Government did not care, warns against the strange wealth tax, which is an obstacle to the development of business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1503	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Case No. 5–18 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1665	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 5-18.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1671	Before Storting goes to voting:
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1699	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1707	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Tore Hagebakken, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 3, 4 and 6, by Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA We start with proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case on the further development of the Svalbard community, focusing on sustainability, environmental research, a renewable energy base and new economic pathways.’ This is a proposal which was rejected in almost identical form by the Stortinget in the Svalbard budget on 9 December. The examination of the proposal must therefore be assessed in accordance with the last paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: ‘Once a proposal has been finalised, the proposal must not be re-submitted or re-examined in the same roll-out session.’ However, the last paragraph of Section 38 states that: ‘If necessary, the Grand Duchy may nevertheless decide that a proposal shall be re-examined, provided that it is re-examined.’ [[...]] After reading on 9 December, it is clear that the proposal was supposed to have been adopted, but that the reason for its rejection was that some representatives voted incorrectly. The error corrections were not notified during the handling of the case, so there was therefore no basis for making a new vote. Such a result may not be altered in retrospect. The vote is therefore final. The President considers that this reason for the error of the vote result is not an ‘necessary’ reason for the Storting to take a decision to re-examine the proposal. The President therefore proposes that the procedure for the proposal should be in accordance with point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39, which implies that it is ‘not being examined’. However, if a majority wishes the proposal to be examined, the provision in the last paragraph of Section 38 states that it is a prerequisite for «re-examined committee». The proposal has not been dealt with in committee before, since it was a so-called'solved proposal' at the beginning of the debate on 9 December. However, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the re-examination of the Committee cannot be interpreted as discrepancy between the examination of a proposal which originates from a committee position and a'solved proposal' as it stands. To make this easy – [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1753	I've listened very carefully. The Labour Party voted in favour of this proposal when it was discussed last week. Then there were representatives in the hall who voted incorrectly, and therefore the real will of Storting was not expressed. We therefore consider that the Storting must be given the opportunity to vote again on the proposal today, and if the statement to the President means that it is not possible at all, we consider that it should be submitted to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1758	That is what the issue is, so I see the representative Helga Pedersen as proposing that the matter be referred to the committee for consideration. Then we need an explanation of vote from the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1763	I thank you for a neat and straightforward explanation. We support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1768	Noraker – no, Norheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1771	I also thank you for the statement – and for the name change! The Progress Party also supports the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1776	I understand that the President has his background from the jug! We think we should send it back to committee, so if that's what was in the president's proposal, in other words, we support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1781	No, if you want to send it back to the committee, you support the proposal of Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1784	Then we support that it should be sent back to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1789	The Central Party supports the Workers' Party's proposal that the proposal be forwarded to the Committee for further consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1794	With the history of a vote in which some allegedly voted incorrectly, we, although it is a'solved proposal', will vote in favour of it being forwarded to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1800	SV supports the transmission of the proposal to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1805	And that also supports Rasmus Hansson, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1808	Do I have to say that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1813	No, no, no. The President thinks it's in the air that it's approaching Christmas! [[Laughter]] Otherwise, I would like to say in the referendum that it is important that we have the law in order as to what is recorded. We then have the following proposals: the proposal from the President that the proposal should not be discussed, and the proposal from the representative of Helga Pedersen that the proposal should be forwarded to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e1829	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2014 shall be amended as follows: 5800 State pension fund abroad:50Transfer from the fund to NOK 930 000, increased by NOK 689 082 000 from NOK 137 502 298 000 to NOK 158 191 380 490 000, increased by EUR 9700 000, increased by NOK 6 977 000, increased by SEK 7 000 000, increased by NOK 843 351 000, increased by 700 000 from NOK 16 887 000 to NOK 17 587 000440, increased by police and officers' seat:1Operational expenditure, increased by 200 000 from NOK 13 197 557 000 to NOK 13 197 757 0003490, increased by 700 000 from EUR [[ODA:]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the 123 quota refugees, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, requested Norway to accept and were rejected due to their refusal. assumed lack of capacity in municipalities may come to Norway in the current year.» [[UNHCR]] Proposal No. 6 reads: ‘The government is not asking for funds to be used on the ground for the E18 Ramstadsletta-Lysaker.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e2157	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2014 shall be amended as follows: Cape.PostCroner5800 State pension funds abroad:50Transfer from the fund, increased by20 662 182 000from NOK 137 502 298 000 to NOK 158 164 480 000’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e2212	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2014 shall be amended as follows: Cape.PostKronerExpenditure571Court grants to municipalities:68Tax compensation, may be transferred, awarded with 2 000 000 000 from NOK 0 to NOK 2 000 000’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e4123	In the case of cases No. 5–18, it is the second time that legal decisions have been taken. There are no comments on any of these issues. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e4172	Before we finish today's meeting, I have the pleasure of thanking you for a nice harvest. I think there have been good debates and good dynamics in our work, and I think the Stortinget has been helpful in helping to ensure that the implementation of the cases has gone well. With that, Stortinget has shown responsibility as an institution, and it is well worth noting, and we can tell that by the crossroads where that question had to come up. Now Christmas is at the door. You've been working hard and tight for a long time, and I want you to have a really good Christmas holiday. Then we can come back here with charged batteries after New Year, ready for new blows here in the hall. A really good Christmas, everyone!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e4179	Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-18.ana.ud2249e4184	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
