ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e26	The called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e34	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Vegar Solhjell, Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a national library initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e39	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e51	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e58	After the government presented the municipal bill for 2015, many municipalities have announced that they will have to cut their budgets. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, when demand for kindergarten places increases, municipalities are not paid for it. Secondly, the municipal economy that the government provides for next year barely covers the population growth accounts, the elderly, pensions, new tasks that the government wants municipalities to do, and the increase in the cost of child protection and special education. All of these are bills that add up to nearly 5 billion. kr. Thirdly, the tax revenue of the municipalities goes down instead of rise for the first time in many years, without compensation from the government. That means it's missing up to 1 billion. kr for the municipal scheme to go to zero. In other words, it's too little money. Or as the leader of the KS, Gunn Marit Helgesen, says about kindergarten funding: ‘The sub-financing to which it is now deliberately committed forces the municipalities to cut off other important tasks.’ Or as a financial firm in Bergen, Liv Røssland, of the Progress Party, says about the municipal structure: ‘These are messages that are very serious for the municipality of Bergen, together they show that we get 150 – 180 million dollars less next year. For us, this is not pleasing." What we now see is the consequences of government policy. There is a commitment to one ideological bargain, namely tax cuts, rather than ensuring good schooling and care for the elderly. All choices have a price. Well-being is the price of tax cuts. This year the government granted between 8 and 9 billion. kr in tax cuts for those who already have the most. Only half of this amount will the government use for growth in the free income of the municipalities. My question is therefore: why does the Prime Minister think tax cuts are more important than child care, school and elderly care?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e86	This government is paying for school, we're paying for care for the elderly, we're paying for growth in the municipalities, and we're paying for the important, basic thing, that we're also going to have good tax revenue in the future, because we have a good and profitable business that can contribute to tax revenue that allows us to also pay for well-being in the future. Therefore, it must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at once: to improve the welfare systems that we have today, while laying the foundation for the funding of welfare schemes for the future. When we make changes to the tax regime, it is among other things. in order to contribute to raising income in the future from a society with profitable jobs, the security of individual families and the ability to finance well-being. So it's like we're also making sure to fund the welfare this year and next year. With the municipal bill for 2015, the free revenues increase by 1.4 pst. In the period from 2007 to 2014, they have increased on average by 1.5 pst. – that is the average for these years. That means that the municipal structure we have, on average, is close to the red-green municipality structure in the last few years. It is an area that provides coverage for both demography and development, as well as room for new initiatives within important priority areas for the weakest groups we have, including: in the field of drugs and psychiatry, which we believe are areas where there should be a stronger effort in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e95	It is not true that the municipal structure for the next year is as good as that of the red-green government this year. The red-green government presented 1 billion. kr last year at this time. This year it's 1 billion. kr less. In addition, there is almost one unfunded nursery garden, and tax revenue falls for the first time in many years. It is not just I who do not share the Prime Minister's description of the reality that it will now come to an end. It also says the Right Party and the Advance Party's own trust voters in the Municipality of Norway, for example. Right-wing rapporteur in Drammen, who has said that he is confident that his party traps in Oslo will realise that the cuts must be compensated. He loses funding for 50 full-time kindergartens. In Bergen – to questions about whether the government delivers on the policy promised in the election campaign – the Finance Agency of the Progress Party answers: ‘No, and this is our great question and call for them: how have they intended that the municipalities should comply with their policies when they take away funds?’ What will the Prime Minister respond to the confidence-elects of the Advance Party in Drammen, Bergen and other municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e109	I have heard the same statements every year when the red-greens have presented their municipal propositions. We could keep the exact same post and say that you didn't fully cover it. Yes, there are some challenges. The kindergarten question is one of them. That's why we have said that we should sit down with KS, go through the calculation models for this and find solutions before we present the budget for the harvest. But there are many other calculations like this that have been made over the years. For example, the municipal sector claimed that the red-green government undercompensated by 1.5 billion. kr for the transition to the new childcare income system when it was introduced. We have these discussions every time we have new changes in income. I think it's important that we get a good discussion with the local government about how we do it. We've admitted that we've made a mistake in that area, but we've also said that we need to have a process for how we do it properly in the future, so that we have good calculations for how changes happen. I hear the representative says that we do not compensate for the loss of tax revenue. It is that it is compensated by an adjustment into each single settlement from the next year of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e120	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e123	Politics is about making choices. In the big election campaign we said very clearly from the red-green side that we wanted to bet on elderly care, better school, kindergartens, but not on tax cuts. The right said the opposite. They've kept their promise. In the state budget for 2014, it is under 5 billion. kr in tax cuts. But not everyone gets to enjoy it. People with ordinary income with no wealth get 50 cents a day in tax cuts. Those who make over 2 million. kr, receives on average NOK 40000 in tax cuts. It's actually just the tax that goes to people who make over 1 million. kr – approx. 2 billion. kr – would have been more than enough to provide a real growth for municipalities to improve care for the elderly, to make those who need care, safer in everyday life, to bet in school and to secure all childcare facilities. Why does Erna Solberg think it's more important to give big tax cuts to those who make over 1 million. rather than providing basic good care for the elderly and a good school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e132	I also believe that politics is about making choices. It is about making choices in the short term and in the long term. I believe that one of the obligations of our generation of politicians is to ensure that our children inherit a society that offers equal opportunities both for well-being and for safe jobs in the future. Some of the choices we have made in the budget are to put competitiveness on the agenda and to make sure that the opportunities for young people in the future are put into a safe job, and the opportunities to finance well-being, in the high seat. Therefore, we have made some changes to the tax system that help to stimulate Norwegian enterprises and help to stimulate investment in Norwegian jobs and Norwegian ownership. Then we've cleared up our budget – in the inequality that the Workers' Party suddenly created by putting down the taxes on businesses, but not on people. This is also important for the future, so that we don't get a big change in the tax system. At the same time, we have room for a great commitment to well-being. There's more well-being in the budget we live on today than what the red-greens had last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e139	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e142	The representative Helga Pedersen was concerned with this with the kindergarten sector and the underfinancing there, which is above 340 million. kr. If you look at it in a macro perspective, you might think that this is probably going to work. But if you go down on the individual municipality, you'll see that it's dramatic. My own municipality, Skien, has to cut almost 12 million this year and until next year. kr only in this sector. The right has been very busy talking about raising quality — not only in school, but they have also talked about raising the quality of kindergartens. Now the municipalities have to cut in this sector. Increasing quality — how does it relate to this sub-financing? It is interesting to ask the Prime Minister if it is such that her party trap and leader in the KS, Gunn Marit Helgesen – who has also been concerned about this, and has pointed it out – are wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e150	The government has for the most part admitted that the calculations that were used in 2002, that is, the model from the Red-Green government, and what we laid down in the harvest when we made the budget – which in itself is the same model – are not correct. In 2012, there was a positive in the municipal sector, this year it was negative. We've said that we have to go in and look at the calculation models and how we're doing this. So we have this process, which we've said we want with KS. That's why we expect to be able to complete that process until we present the budget for the harvest. Then we also get back to the answers to that. More money has been put in to improve quality in 2014, and the government will continue to work on it. We are concerned that children in Norway should not be kept only when they are in a kindergarten, but they should actually experience quality and development and get a good foundation before they start school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e157	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e160	Quality needs resources. Before Christmas, the government made a budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and the cash support was further increased. You then added a savings, because you thought it would look the same, as when the red-green government changed the cash support a few years ago. It didn't. You calculated the error. A revised budget has now been given room for various bets, but there has been no room for correcting the mistakes you made before Christmas, where you cut the money into the municipal sector. It will then affect other services in the municipal sector. My question to the Prime Minister is: Shouldn't the strong party, the state, be predictable? When the state makes mistakes in its calculations and municipalities get bigger bills, should not the state then put up in the revised national budget and say that quality in kindergartens is most important, and therefore will the money come out wrong before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e171	There have been many cases throughout history of estimates of the cost of reforms, the cost of changes in the budget, and the lack of a vote. There has been no tradition from any government to make any single decision. Usually it is only discussion when it has a negative effect, not when it has a positive effect, for the municipalities. There are large individual differences between municipalities in this respect. Someone would actually get out better with this arrangement, and someone would get out worse. Recognising that we have made a mistake, we have said that we should sit down with the KS and discuss how we should make these models better for the future, and how we might possibly solve this situation. That means we're fulfilling what KS wants, that the government is in dialogue. That's why we come back with the end of that dialogue when the government budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e178	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e181	The government, through its short- and long-term choices, has clearly demonstrated that they do not give priority to kindergartens, either in terms of ensuring kindergartens, to which you are entitled, or in terms of quality. While a kindergarten employee now gets 27 cents in tax bills a day by the prime minister, it can be cut in the kindergartens around, and the quality will go down. In the short term, we can look at the revised national budget that the government has just presented, where the government was able to find 200 million. SEK – 100 million. kr for cheaper tax-free spirits and 100 million. NOK for boat engines that would be cheaper. Yesterday we discussed violence against children and the needs of child protection, which is now also at risk of cutbacks. Does the Prime Minister think that cheaper tax-free spirits and cheaper boat engines are more important than kindergartens and better child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e192	You have to be able to do more things at once. I think it's very important that we clean up the kindergarten issue. I think it is very important that we continue to bet on child protection in the future. We're going to do that. One of the things we're actually doing in the revised national budget is just related to child protection, where we make sure that the queue for home care goes down by giving funds to temporary employees who can work through the big queue that's there, so that children get into a good process. In fact, in the revised national budget, we have also been able to give priority to the weakest children – and that queue has grown for several years – by getting things going to make decisions. We always do more things at once. You can set different ratios to each other. I mean, among other things: that when we do something with boat engines, it is among other things. a large part of a simplification system. Sometimes we have to say that some charges create so much bureaucracy that this causes a problem because we have to employ so many people to implement that bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e199	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e202	It is not only the municipalities that provide educational and welfare services, it is also the county municipalities. In the municipal proposition that the government has made, there is one state that appears to be exceptionally much worse than any other state. It's the state I'm elected from, Sogn and Fjordane. It's a state that now has to cut its budget by over 10 pst. It's a group that's already put down two further schools, and it doesn't have so many left. It has also said its own politicians in the state, from the Right Party and the Progress Party, that it is not possible. Does the Prime Minister believe that is possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e209	The county income system has not changed in 23 years – I think. It's an area that's been mature for change. That is why, since the Borge Committee presented its proposal in 2005, it has repeatedly been informed that changes will be made to it. Fortunately, Sogn and Fjordane County have been one of the county municipalities who have known this, and who have therefore spent money and have been aware that with the income system that has been there, they have received more money than they are likely to get in the future. Therefore, the operating surplus in Sogn and Fjordane County is quite large. It seems to me to have been a wise decision, because it is the way the income system should enable states, wherever they are, to have similar quality of service. When the income system has been wrong, it means that in the counties that have received too little, they have had less money. The left is e.g. committed to increasing the use of public transport. That means that those states that have the greatest collective challenges are now actually getting more opportunities to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e214	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e218	Faizullah Muradi was arrested yesterday and sent out of the country. 18 years old he was recruited by the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan as an interpreter. He served for several years for the federal state of Norway and also participated in combat documents in Norwegian uniform debt with Norwegian soldiers. Yesterday he was sent out of the country. The Dublin Convention dealing with these kinds of issues, which Norway has also committed itself to, states that asylum seekers arriving in Europe should be given the opportunity to deal with their application in the first country to which they come. For Muradi, it was Italy. This means that Norway can send back that kind of asylum seeker, but one does not have to. In 2011, Norway stopped all returns to Greece because we felt that it was not responsible. In 2012–2013, 21 interpreters who had been interpreters of the Norwegian service in Afghanistan were suspended following a specific assessment by the Ministry of Justice. My question is: does the Prime Minister mean that we have a special responsibility for those who have been in battle, made a necessary effort for the Norwegian forces and thus are exposed to a danger afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e227	Yeah, I mean it. I would like to stress that we have a special responsibility for those who have worked for Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. This does not mean, however, that all those who have worked for Norwegian forces need protection or are entitled to protection, but we must recognise that we have used local participants that we must also take responsibility for in the future. Because they have had an increased risk of persecution, the government has continued the special scheme established in 2012. This means that local staff can seek protection in Norway from Afghanistan. The main change is that you are allowed to apply from Afghanistan without having to come to Norway to submit your application. That was also done by the previous government, and so we have passed on the legislation that has been linked to it. In this system, applications have been examined, and it is true that at least by 2013. 21 who had stayed based on it, but there was an equal number who had not been allowed to stay based on the specific assessment. The concrete assessment of whether a person has been involved and made visible in such a way as to endanger a future risk of persecution is carried out by the administration of a foreign currency. Each case has been dealt with individually, and that is how it will be possible for people who are in Afghanistan to continue to search for it. When it comes to this particular matter, it's a little special, because it wouldn't fall under the regulation that's made. The person concerned had then left Afghanistan at an earlier date than that of the scheme, and he stayed for several years in Italy before moving to Norway to apply for asylum. With such a long stay in Italy, it was considered by the foreign authorities that the use of the Dublin Convention was correct in this respect. I think that of course you can discuss whether it is right or not, but he has had a longer stay out, almost two years, and it has to be important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e236	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is so clear that we have a very special responsibility. In 2012, a defense spokesman for the Right also said that we have an enormous moral responsibility. But then I have to say that I have a little problem seeing the assessment in this particular case, both in line with the leadership of the Prime Minister here, and with what the Right has said earlier on these kinds of questions. Clearly, we know that the upsurge in Italy is the result of an entirely concrete event, but in reality it is exactly the same moral assessment that should be the basis for this case as it did in 2012. We know that in 2012, the government chose to make a specific assessment. Would the government be willing to make a specific assessment this time as well? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e245	So the specific assessment continues. It is at the moment that locally employed staff in Mazar-e-Sharif, which we are now withdrawing, are being treated in line with the guidelines that have been in place. The original arrangement was actually terminated. We've continued it because we're now on our way out of Afghanistan. What was specific to that scheme was the possibility of applying from Afghanistan to Norway for an assessment. This matter is completely different in the form that the framework of the special arrangement made by the red-green government started with people who were hired after the time he had left Afghanistan. Now he's sent out, and I have to say that the assessment made by the foreign agencies is that his situation is different, and that because he has had a long stay in Italy, it is right that he should have his case assessed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e252	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir S. Tuskedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e255	The Prime Minister stresses that the application came after Muradi had left Afghanistan. It is clear that in Norway there are many who may have served Norway as an interpreter and others, who may have actually contributed to saving Norwegian lives and who are seeking protection because they have suffered death threats. In Denmark, we see that 396 families or individuals with a family have received a residence permit. We also see in the media that resistance people react, because when we involve a man, we also impose obligations on men. I can't see that is done in this case. The Dublin Agreement states that provided that asylum seekers consent, a State may assume responsibility for examining the application. I believe that could have been done in this matter. But then we have tightened the entry rules here in the country. Does that mean that if he came to Norway now, could he be arrested and given two years in prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e262	I think I have to ask for understanding that I cannot give an assessment of a single matter. The alienation authorities are responsible. They're the ones responsible. I can talk about the legislation, but I can't tell if he's at risk when he gets back to Norway. He's been sent. It is up to the foreign administration to carry out the assessment according to the legislation we have. It is still a wish from Stortinget that individual cases should not be dealt with politically but that they should be dealt with by the Foreign Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e267	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e270	I think the Prime Minister gives a very bureaucratic answer to a question that is really about something else. Muradi travelled before the scheme was introduced in Norway. He had a longer stay in Italy – it was not voluntary. What remains then is that Norway appears to consider it reasonable to send a person who worked for Norway in Afghanistan for three years, out of the country without having his case assessed here. This is not about stay or not, it is about getting their case dealt with in Norway. My specific question is: Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to ensure that at least Muradi is dealt with in Norway? It was us he served for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e277	The Foreign Service has taken its decision. He's been sent out of the country. I think it would be difficult if we were now to bring him back to give an assessment and then possibly come to the conclusion that there was no need for protection. The question of protection needs is only the foreign administration that assesses – we do not even consider that. It may be a bureaucratic answer, but it is therefore the case that the Storting has transferred the management of individual matters to the foreign administration rather than to political treatment. That means that discretionary assessments of such matters from the Prime Minister of the pulpit will be contrary to the law adopted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e284	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e288	We all agree on our moral responsibility for those who have helped our soldiers in battle or in other ways in our country's service. There have been demanding rounds before. That was also the case in 2012. On the basis of demanding rounds, policies have changed – for this is how policies are often changed, after demanding rounds. Now we are in a new demanding round, where a new problem has arisen. Then is my first question to the Prime Minister – and I understand that it is difficult to be Prime Minister and to answer it very clearly and concretely: Will the Prime Minister be willing to see if there is a need, even in 2014, to adjust the policy, as was done in 2012, because one has entered a new demanding round and sees that one has a moral responsibility? So question number two: was the government informed about, or somehow involved in, the current case?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e297	Firstly, I would like to stress that we are always willing to assess changes in policies and regulatory changes. One of the things we've done is to expand the system that the red-green government put in place, precisely because we're now going to see that there are several Afghans who will be in a situation where they might experience being persecuted, when Norwegian forces withdraw from Afghanistan. We believe that that is right, because we believe that we have a moral responsibility for not abandoning people who have a need for protection because they have worked for Norway in Afghanistan. It is true that this is a slightly different matter, since the question does not concern whether to send this person back to Afghanistan. The question is where the asylum application is actually to be dealt with, whether it is to be done in Italy or not. If we're going to make changes to that, I won't say anything about it right now. I just find that the foreign agencies have thought that based on his long stay in Italy, it has been right to say that this is where the application is to be processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e306	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e309	This can't be so difficult! It is right not to go into individual matters politically, but at the same time we now have our own system for Afghan interpreters, so that they can apply for asylum from Afghanistan. The question is: Will the Prime Minister take an initiative that will enable them – if there are issues that are unusual with Afghan interpreters – to be given equal treatment and to have their application evaluated in Norway and Norway, which, after all, knows the conditions they have been under in Afghanistan along with Norwegian forces, best?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e318	Italy has been a good partner in a lot of work in Afghanistan, so they know the situation in Afghanistan well. We will, of course, present in the asylum application procedure the information we have on the participation of the interpreter in Norwegian forces when that matter comes to consideration. So we need to ensure a good exchange of information related to the actual situation, in order to elucidate that asylum issue. When it comes to whether we are going to make other assessments, we – as I said in the previous answer – have a continuous discussion about how the legislation should be interpreted and I don't think we should be giving new leads from the Stortings pulpit here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e327	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e330	I think this was a quite eye-catching round, because the Prime Minister went a long way in defending the assessment of the foreign agencies, and I think it was a formalistic and insensitive answer. The asylum seeker we are talking about here was not in Italy for random reasons. He was in Italy to testify to a case related to human smuggling, and was constantly ready that the goal was to get to Norway. Of course, it is possible to push the Dublin agreement in front of them, but it is also possible not to – and say that in this case Norway will take moral responsibility as a result of a person being a refugee because he has served Norway with the Norwegian flag on the uniform. That's why I want to ask the government not to hide behind formalities. I want to challenge the Prime Minister for two things. One is the question that Battle Violence Vedum also asked: Has the government been involved in this matter at any earlier time? And the second question is: Will the government – and then we are not talking about the ongoing processes described by the Prime Minister – make a concrete, new assessment of whether the persons in all these cases should be able to assess their protection needs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e341	We're talking about one thing now, aren't we all? – There is one thing that is involved, which has a very special connection with Italy. Saying what the aliens have done is not pushing them in front of them. It is to respect who actually makes the assessments in individual cases in Norway, provided by law. We now have access to instructing something more than before, but I remember that SV was against that extension when I proposed it as a municipal minister, because it was thought to be more independent in the foreign agencies. I think it is important that we respect these boundaries. That means that the state's role will always be to assess whether we should make major regulatory changes in these matters and whether we have a good enough code. And I'm going to go in for us to consider that, also in the light of this case. But we don't want to push in front of the alien authorities. It's actually managing the law and the system that Stortinget has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e350	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e353	North Norway is a fantastic part of the country with a lot of opportunities, but nature is rough, and it's very large distances. This is why we have used different instruments to take the whole country into account. However, the government has systematically drained North Norway for resources that are important for business, for transport and for well-being. In its first budget, the Finnish supplement on child welfare, in the Marine Value Creation Programme, was cut into grants for nutritional measures in fisheries and in the project market work for cod. It also cut the tax relief we gave through the fishing deduction and cut regional development funds. It was a little raid on North Norway in last year's budget. In March, the government announced that it would surrender to the EU and that employers’ fees would be increased for companies in Northern Norway. Fortunately, you have got a little cold feet and said that you should go a new round after getting massive criticism for it. However, there is still considerable uncertainty about the employer’s fees for all companies in North Norway. For an enterprise like Onkøe, it's about 45 million. kr in increased costs from 1 July, if what the government announced in March becomes reality. But not enough with that. The municipal bill now announces that you will take 368 million. kr from the three northernmost counties and move them south. And in the agricultural settlement proposal, there is a direct attack on Arctic agriculture. It's not an agricultural settlement adapted to Nordic conditions at all. In January in Tromsø, the Prime Minister said that there has been a lot of foreign and research focus in the North Region Initiative, and that there are now ringing effects locally that count. How do the ambitions of January correspond to the systematic depletion of the northern regions and the northern part of Norway for funds at any time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e366	A lot of the statistics show that things are going well in North Norway. I'm glad. This means that there is a new, profitable business, not least related to oil and gas activities, which helps to promise the region not to be so dependent on special schemes, so that to a much greater extent in the years to come it will actually be an economic centre of gravity in Norway. This government has the ambition to further develop it. One of the key areas — in addition to oil and gas — is the mineral policy, which for years has never been cut in terms of mineral and mining activities. This government has started that work, despite the fact that the cases have remained for a long time without being dealt with. Now we do that, and we know that we can get more legs to stand on in terms of jobs, not least in Finnmark. I'm a little surprised at two of the themes that are addressed here as an attack on the government. One concerns the question of a differentiated employer’s fee. It is now quite clear – I noted that yesterday’s debate also made it clear – that the Central Party was fully aware that the sector exemptions were there, without it being thought that it was necessary to inform the Stortinget about it. The principle of sectoral derogations was established in June 2013. The Stortinget was never informed of that. Nor was it informed to the people of Northern Norway. That's the biggest challenge we're dealing with right now. And we are unable to find back to any political process between the previous government and the EU related to this – some political meetings or that this has been problematic. We are now trying to make good, compensatory measures and see if we can expand and find ways to prevent this. With regard to the income system of county councils, the previous government announced three times that it would return and make changes to it, because it has been over-mature after many years. It is that all states should have an opportunity to provide equivalent services, and we still have a large extra transfer through the North Norway grant to the three Nordic states, to help them provide even better services than the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e378	The previous government never accepted the fee shop that the current government accepted on 17 March. Fortunately, they have chosen to go a new round after there was a lot of noise here at home. But the main priority of the government before Christmas was tax relief. Let's take property taxes as an example: the change in property taxes served the inhabitants of Snare Island, Nesøya and Jar as much as 141 district municipalities. And with the announced change in the differentiated employer fee, which may now come, on the other hand of 1 billion. kr for Nord-Norway, it becomes a huge tax call. Jan Tore Sanner said in the current NRK on March 18th that if the fee notice comes, it should be compensated for a crown. Is that promise still at hand? Would North Norway be compensated for heads if there were such a fee notice that we would be at risk of getting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e387	That's what we're working on here. We're assuming that North Norway is going to be compensated for by heads. We cannot compensate each company etc., we have to find other means, but we have to return as much money back to North Norway as what disappears as a consequence of a differentiated employer's fee. Then I want to say: Yes, there is more capital on the hands of people living in some municipalities – and especially in South Norway, but it is even more important the places where there is capital in North Norway. The whole discussion of the changes of the Nergård Group was initiated by the fact that, in the event of a sudden death, there was a heavy inheritance tax burden and a high tax burden on wealth. So it helped to make one of the areas where there was Norse capital significantly weakened. This is because District Norway is becoming more weakened by the kind of taxes that property taxes and inheritance taxes have been, and I believe that what we are doing is actually good for District Norway, because that means it is easier to have national and local capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e396	There will be follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e399	‘It is far from this country. Most of it is north." Where I come from, Helgeland, it is considerably shorter to Kristiansand than to the Kirkenes, and it says something about how important it is to transport in a region like North Norway. We are totally dependent on both public transport, for which the county is responsible, which are collective solutions – bus, boat, ferry – and transport companies, which can help us get goods and services across the region. Now we are facing a rather dramatic situation where the NHO Nord-Norway says that due to the differentiated employer’s fee for the sector exemption on transport, two out of three companies are unlikely to survive in the future. Is the Prime Minister able to defend the fact that transport on the public offer in North Norway must be cut so dramatically because the cost key is changed and the employer fee differentiated, and at the same time that it is a region of growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e406	As I answered the previous question, it is our intention to compensate the Nordic states for the changes in the differentiated employer's fee. In the final phase, we are now working on what we can do with adaptations to the EU and ESA, in order to minimise the impact of what has been adopted. However, it is enough that the transport sector will be affected by the changes in the differentiated employer’s tax, and that is the question. how we do this with compensation, and e.g. transferring more money directly to the counties as a compensation scheme may be one of the models. For they can then buy more services and thus contribute to the improvement of public schemes in that area. So I mean, there's full room to do it. With regard to the income system of the counties: the income system is primarily a model for us to be able to provide similar services around the country. And then it depends on how much money is spent on the growth of county councils in the years to come, how much you actually get, and what you have to do for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e415	Lisbeth Berg-Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e418	After the government put the northern regions on the map, we began to believe in North Norway that we have something to contribute, and for the first time in a very long time, we also saw a growth in the population. Unfortunately, the government shift brought with it a lot of uncertainty – uncertainty about the move of GIL to Bodø, about the expansion of the Prom Centre in Tromsø, the Napp and Sommarø fishing port development was stopped, there was uncertainty about the CO2 compensation scheme for industry, the government cancelled with a pen-stroke election ceremony on oil activity outside of Lofoten and the West Sea, and the government threw the cards in Brussels and sent a bill of 1.5 billion. kr to Norwegian business. That is why many wonder: What government council has overall responsibility for the northern regions? We know that the European Minister will turn to the Bodø dialect when he has to. It impresses us who are struggling to speak anything other than dialect, but I'm in doubt if it impresses the head of the Torghatten who gets a bill of 100 million. kr per year. Is the North Region bet cancelled, or is it just the government that doesn't understand North Norway? Or is it we who live in North Norway who have misunderstood the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e430	The North Region bet actually started under Jan Petersen, with the big North Region announcement. I am glad that the government that came after followed up and reinforced. But the criticism of that government was, of course, continuous, that they were most concerned with foreign policy, that they were most concerned with environmental issues, that they were not so good at what caused ringing effects in the northern regions. We've said that we have a different ambition. That is why we are concerned with industrial development, industrial policy, which is why we are putting mineral extraction on the agenda, which can contribute to more jobs in the years to come, and that is why we actually have a different structure on this. So I'm a little surprised that the red-greens have stomachs enough to dry up using a differentiated employer's fee as an attack on the government. It happened on their guard. You should take responsibility for that. So we are not finding any trace of the political dialogue that should have been against the EU to do anything to prevent it. In fact, I think there's a way of rhetoric, a way of disclaiming liability. We are now working on compensation, and we believe that North Norway should cope with the compensation measures we have, but we would like to see a government that had fought a little bit more for Norway's interests last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e437	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e440	I think the people of North Norway are very happy that we have had an increase in traffic patterns over the last few years, and everything suggests that the government will continue the positive trend. But there are two challenges to the structure we're looking at, because we've got a lot of effort on the road through increments before tolls, and we've got a bet on the railroad that's been absolutely necessary, because they have the licenses doctor too low. The point of the structure is that tolls are not the best-suited thing in North Norway, and that the railway operation naturally, with the structure we have today, does not benefit North Norway in a good way. That is why my challenge to the Prime Minister is: does he see the structural challenge with the efforts that we have now had on trade? We've been betting through tolls, we've been putting a lot of money into the railways, but it didn't benefit North Norway. What does she think about that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e449	I think we need to increase road construction in North Norway, and so have we; we have contributed more money to road construction, including for the Nordic states, in the current budget. The other thing I think is important to do is to recognise that air transport in North Norway has a very special role, not least in business. That means it's important to keep that web well up and up. Then there are exciting questions that can arise in the future, including about other types of railway development: the Ofot Railway is important for business and can contribute to large development conditions for Narvik Port, and ring-effects associated with it, if it gets even better. But we have to bear in mind what the representative says, that in areas in North Norway, toll financing may be a worse solution than elsewhere, because it will provide little income. So we've also made some changes to E6 because of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e459	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e462	I'm standing here with an overview, a list, which shows that there's a net cash flow out of the country, and it's just sitting down with the calculator to see it. The employer's fee is mentioned, but there's a series of cuts in North Norway, and together this sums up to over 2 billion. kr. Had it happened to Oslo, one had cut 2 billion. kr in various welfare and business development in Oslo, then the Prime Minister had been swept around Frogner. In the hall here today there is a class from Lofoten. These are the daughters and sons of North Norway. They've seen a part of the country that's had a lot of growth, but the government is now doing everything it can to sabotage development. My question is, what is the Prime Minister's message to young people in the north? What is the Prime Minister’s vision for North Norway – except for clean extractions of minerals and oil?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e473	I think maybe the most important message for young people in the north is that they don't have to listen to neither SV's calculations nor SV's policies if they want to develop in North Norway. Developments in North Norway have been speeding up precisely because we have had oil and gas activities in the north, of which SV have been opponents. We're going to have development in the north because of mineral extraction, of which SV is the opponent. We're going to make sure people in North Norway can stand on their own. We promise knowledge and competence – which we have proposed to do every year in vocational education and training, to raise the youth in the north to be prepared for the future labour market to come. Calculations that say we take 1 billion. Kr away due to a differentiated employer's fee, while I say that we should compensate this krona for kroner, are notional calculations for policy reasons, and they are not correct. I also think SV should take the responsibility – as I have said to other red-green politicians here – since they were in government when the main decision was taken. We don't find any trace of their activity to counteract that decision. You should take a little more responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e486	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e489	I would like to ask the Prime Minister about poverty. It's a challenge for everyone, and there you don't have to talk to contempt about Oslo to get your point out. This is one of the areas where we have long seen the need for action, and we need action that works. I'm especially concerned with the kids. Now we go into a time when many kids won't tell what to do this summer, because they won't do anything, or they won't invite friends home after school, because the home they're going to show is not so nice. Children are incredibly loyal to their parents and are trying to hide. That means we're putting big problems on many small shoulders. Kjell Magne Bondevik said after his prime minister period that it was one of the things he most regretted that he could not do more with. Kristin Halvorsen entered the government and said that poverty should be eliminated with a pen stroke, but she felt sails that it increased by many thousands. Now we should reverse the evolution. In the previous period, the Left presented a list of 35 proposals, where we also challenged others to come forward with proposals for action to reach precisely these groups. My questions to the Prime Minister are: When does that package of measures against poverty come, which we actually agreed to start? What action does the Prime Minister see that we can do to achieve a goal of minimising poverty at all and making a society with the least possible differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e510	I believe that in the strategy against poverty there are two different elements, that is, two different strategies, that have to be able to do at the same time. One strategy is the long-term challenge. We know that some social problems and some poverty problems are unfortunately inherited in Norway. We know that disability can be inherited – not only because some diseases are hereditary, but also because some life patterns can become hereditary. That's why it's incredibly important that we break those chains. We can do that by increasing the amount of money spent on the drugs field – the government is doing that. We can do that by increasing the focus on mental health — the government does. It's also about an active integration policy that gets people out of work and makes people master their lives better. The government is also working on that. The second strategy is the remedies for those in a situation of poverty, in particular children and young people. The four parties that have supported the formation of a government in Norway agreed on a number of concrete measures last year, and I am glad that the red-green government copied them into the budget, because that means that we have a start with funds this year to strengthen areas such as: leave for all and other measures contributing to the relief of the consequences of poverty for children and young people. We have to keep doing that, and we have to work with the targeted measures, which make it easy to access leisure activities, and that there will be offers to get holidays and travel experiences. But the main thing is the first thing I said, we have to break these chains. When the number of children living in poverty has increased in recent years, it is also due to the fact that more asylum seekers and immigrants have come to Norway, which has a lower economic base, and for them it takes longer to enter our society. In fact, we have to do the most in this area and make sure that they get into society faster, and that their parents manage to be active, and that they get role models for the future that make them not inherit the social welfare dependency of their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e523	In the last Nav report that came, you can read a lot of interesting things, including developments in this area. We see that the poverty experienced by children in particular is more structural. It is linked to two main indicators: immigration and solitary care providers. It's sad, but it also gives us a political opportunity, because that means that if we have a real will for redistribution, we can manage to reach exactly those groups that are actually talking about. One of the most important things for kids who grow up in such conditions is to have safe, good adults who can speak, and who can give everyone an equally good start. That's something that the right very much underlined in the constitutional debate, for example. In the budget we actually agreed that we should have measures related to kindergarten and kindergarten prices. It was to be in the revised national budget for 2014, but there were only seven lines. We're disappointed in that. Now I want the Prime Minister to promise that this will come to the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e532	Of course, it is difficult for a Prime Minister to pre-profile all parts of the budget, but I think I can say with a fairly high degree of certainty that Trine Skei Grande will be heard when we present it. It's also an important part of what we have as a government base. We need to find solutions in areas related to poverty, poor children and access in kindergartens for those who are the poorest. I agree that structural challenges need to be addressed, and that parents need to be taught Norwegian early and able to function in our society. It matters not only to poverty, but also too much else. I think, for example, in the fight against extremism, it is very important that parents understand Norwegian society and feel that they can contact Norwegian authorities if they are concerned about their children. There are many positive consequences of ensuring that adults who come to Norway receive qualitatively good and fast Norwegian training.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e539	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e542	This is happening in summer, and this year – as in previous years – we have many poor people coming to Norway. Many of them settle in parks and woods, which is definitely a problem, but which are also heavily regulated and already banned. Instead of addressing this issue, the government has chosen to deal urgently with a proposal for a beg ban — a question of what should be allowed in the public space. Also, in view of the election results of the European Parliament last weekend, how many parties, not only EU-sceptics but also xenophobic and immigration-sceptic, have grown strong, my question is: What responsibility will the Prime Minister take for the debate that is now being held in Norwegian municipalities to be about the rights of individuals in public space – our main democratic arena – and not become a debate for or against individual groups of people?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e553	I would like to say that the debate we have had about begging, and the background to the government's proposal in Stortinget that we should introduce the possibility for the municipalities to impose a beggar ban – we also have a discussion about whether we should have a national beggar ban – have not been primarily justified by the fact that it is shameful, difficult or otherwise, but that there is a link between begging and crime for the rest, which has been problematic and increasing. There have also been issues of beggaring in some cases connected to human trafficking. That it has been possible to beg, and that Norway has been viewed as both an open and very pleasant country with a lot of money, where you can beg, has contributed in total to the fact that we have also had a significant share of crime at the same time. That is why I believe it is right – and no one can be surprised – that a government formed by the Right Party and the Advance Party actually proposes this to the Stortinget. It is among the things that I think are important that we implement; we make it possible to stop begging in some areas, for example. to reduce the burden and crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e563	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e566	There is no doubt that one of the main causes of great poverty is major differences in society. Norway is one of the countries in the world with the least differences in society, where we were previously in competition with our neighbouring country Sweden, which was also among those countries with the least differences. Sweden is now taking part in another competition. It is among those countries where differences are increasing most and increasing more rapidly. When they do, there are several reasons for it. One is wage development. What we have seen in Sweden is a galloping leadership wage development while they lack action against social dumping, which pushes down the low wages. We've seen a tax policy that gives the richest, that gives very little to those who have little, and we've seen some cuts in welfare arrangements. Does the Prime Minister see that the policy that has given rise to increased disparities and increased poverty in Sweden will give rise to increased disparities if it is implemented in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e573	I don't feel a need to discuss what policy has been in Sweden. I would like to discuss the policy of the government. This government has intended to counter major differences, primarily by enabling people to use the opportunities of our society. It's about making sure that we have a better care, that people actually get treatment when they're ready to treat. It's about better mental health protection. It's about people being able to get back to work after they've been out of work, creating a labour market that's capable of doing it, and it's about creating a better integration policy. The greatest differences that create poverty are not a question of fiscal policy. It's a question of whether people are able to get into work, use their resources, and get good help when they need it. I think Anniken Huitfeldt had quite a good idea just before she left as Minister of Labour, namely that the poverty debate in Norway was distorted when only the relative differences were looked at and not at all the other schemes that contribute to the fact that in Norway there were less consequences of income differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e580	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e583	We in the Christian People's Party too are impatient to put in place a package of measures against poverty, and we know that one of the most important keys in the fight against poverty is to get the most out of work. An important key to entering the labour market is education and competence, and then it is very good that the government has an ambition to realise the knowledge society. However, it is a problem that too many people fall from higher education, and these students are at risk of being excluded from the future labour market. If we see who it is that falls from, students who have a low socio-economic background are overrepresented in that statistics, and in that way poverty is often inherited. The government has presented several good bets within school, but we have so far seen little that is directly aimed at equalising social differences in school. My question is simply: what will the government do to balance social differences in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e590	Our school policy is about what all research shows is the most important thing to balance social differences. There's been a lot of research on these issues, and the researchers are very clear and clear about it is that it's the good teacher in the classroom who can counteract your social background. Stanford's research says having a good teacher for five years can erase the background you have, i.e. in your school performance. That's why it's incredibly important to raise the teachers' skills, to raise the teachers' ability to stand in the classroom, to raise the teaching profession as such. Many of the measures taken by this government are precisely concentrated on this. Another thing I think it's important to say, is that there's one group in particular that falls through the school community, and that's child protection. Only one third of child-restraint children in Norway complete secondary education. It has ambitions to do something about, with much closer school follow-up of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e597	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e600	In this area, as in many other areas, something strong is happening. All political parties are against poverty, but more and more people feel poor. So what's happening is different than what's being said. The Prime Minister says that you have to think about both long-term and remedial measures, and I fully agree with that. That's what's important in the long term. And the most important thing about this topic is income from work. The Prime Minister points to the integration of asylum seekers and that is important. But does not the Prime Minister agree that what is happening on the labour market, as a result of free immigration, leads to changes in the conditions of labour force, so that more and more people feel that they are lagging behind in the development of those who are not affected by this competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e607	The biggest social difference in Norway is between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. It shows all the statistics. Those who have the greatest experience of standing outside our society and experiencing differences are those who are out of work. I believe that the biggest challenge we have in terms of differences and poverty is to make sure that more people can be in work, and that more people experience that they are mastering their own everyday lives. That's why I think the main strategy must be to look at those outside, and give them more opportunity to come back, more opportunity to participate, and to master their lives. There is no doubt that very many of the children who live in poverty today, and who are not children of immigrants, do so because their parents do not master their lives. Therefore, mental health protection and drug care are so important. That's why it has a high priority. In fact, I believe that is the most important strategy for combating a society of great differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e614	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e617	There is a very serious human rights situation in China, and there are signs that it is being tightened up against dissidents and human rights activists. This happens in connection with the fact that 4 June is 25 years since the massacre in the place of Heavenly peace, when an unknown but large number of democratic activists were killed when the regime struck down on the protests. It is still the case that political prisoners from that time on are not released, and there are now reports that more people are being arrested in these days to plan markings of the 25th anniversary. We have recently had a discussion about how Norway should deal with the Chinese authorities, and the government has said that one has bowed down to China once in order to get opportunities to criticise later. The Prime Minister is well aware that there is a strategy that we in SV have disagreed with. We believe that yielding has weakened our authority in such a dialogue, but yet the government now has the opportunity to show that it is serious about this. There is a great need to build an international press against Chinese authorities. There is a great need to show those who still dare to stand up for their opinions and for fundamental rights such as freedom of expression that they have international support. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: Will the government contact China's ambassador with demands for the release of the human rights activists who have been arrested in the last few weeks to prepare for marking the 25th anniversary?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e627	I'm recording that the representative Lysbakken refers to a dialogue. I would remind you that dialogue does not exist. It has not existed since 2010. But I want to stress that the violence that took place in Beijing and other Chinese cities on 4 June 1989 is a tragedy both for China and for the people of China. It's very important that we have transparency about those events. The contact between the authorities and the survivors should be better to help heal the wounds. I am also very concerned about the reports that the representative Lysbakken now mentions and mentions – that people who want to mark the 25th anniversary of June 4th seem to be exposed to persecution and some disappearances. The Chinese authorities are responsible for respect for human rights – they have also signed the UN Charter – and for ensuring that all citizens of the country have access to these human rights. We are going to be clear and clear to the Chinese authorities that we believe that respect for human rights must be respected. One of the goals we have to try to normalize relations with China is to be able to address key human rights issues in direct dialogue with the country's authorities. Our perception is that direct dialogue can often be more effective than political demonstrations. It is simply that it is often more difficult for a country’s authorities to bow to political demonstration actions than in direct dialogue to talk about difficult issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e636	My question was precisely adapted to the fact that Norway does not have the same dialogue options that we wish we had. We have one channel, which is open to us, and that is to contact the Chinese ambassador and clarify where Norway stands, and to demand the release of these activists. I read blogs with joy, and one of them I read is the Prime Minister's. At Erna Solberg's blog on June 4, 2009 we read: ‘... at the same time, it is important that we are very clear to China that we believe that systematic human rights violations are unacceptable and that Norwegian authorities communicate this crystal clear.’ She supported a Jan Tore Sanner initiative to address the situation of political prisoners in connection with the fact that it was 20 years since the massacre. I wonder in these days if it is Erna Solberg or China that has changed most since 2009, and why the Prime Minister is so quiet today, when she was so loud five years ago. I would like to repeat my question: Will the government contact China's ambassador in connection with these arrests?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e648	On the part of the government, we have not decided in what form to express our views on China. But I'm not quiet. I stand on the voice of the Storting, which is this country's foremost spokesman, and say that I am deeply concerned about the disappearances and persecutions. I'm very worried about that. I believe that China must respect human rights and the fundamental UN Charter. It's not to be quiet. It is as Prime Minister in Norway to express a clear, clear political stance on behalf of the nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e653	There will be follow-up questions – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e656	Let's be honest with ourselves. I believe that the vast majority of people other than the Prime Minister are ready to admit that Norway's desire for a normalized relationship with China to a large extent, or at least to some extent, has to do with business and industrial interests. The recent debate about this shows it with all due clarity. For example, we all know about the commitment of the Shipowners. I also read blogs. Jan Tore Sanner has in a very good way put words on it in his blog: ‘Why, then, is it so silent about these abuses? The answer is unfortunately brutal: the Western world does not dare to confront Chinese authorities.» [[...]] What the Prime Minister calls political, symbolic markers, the Prime Minister uses himself, for example. against gross human rights violations in Uganda. There's a cool line and cut in money support as the counter. But you pick a completely different line to China. Will the Prime Minister provide a continuous and severe pressure on Chinese authorities to improve the conditions for human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e668	I believe that there is a difference between what kind of reaction patterns we have to countries that we contribute Norwegian taxpayers' money to, and that commit human rights violations, and other countries. I find it difficult as a taxpayer in Norway if my tax money is to be used to maintain regimes that have a downward spiral in this respect. We're going to be clear and clear on human rights issues, to China. We've been and we're going to be. I've just expressed my point of view on June 4. It is such that we look with great concern at the disappearances and persecutions, and we believe that the Chinese authorities have obligations under the human rights to care for all their citizens in this area. Then Snorre Serigstad Valen might say that he believes that everyone but I know what is going on in my head or in our government negotiations. Of course, we are also engaged in business – we have never hidden that. But the main challenge is that China is the second largest economy in the world. There is a veto in the United Nations, and Norway has no relationship or dialogue with the country today. There is also a difficult foreign policy situation for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e675	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e678	Amnesty International portrays the situation in Tibet as very appealing, and Chinese governance is stepping up repression. The government of Solberg wants to normalize the relationship with China and state the position of former governments and gives the Chinese the right to believe that the peace price of a Chinese dissident was a Norwegian political decision. This is how I have seen the statements from both the prime minister and the government. It is perceived that on behalf of the Nobel Committee, what has happened has been regretted. One wants to straighten out the relationship by acting less respectful than before to the spiritual leader of the Tibetans, the Dalai Lama. The centre party disagrees very much with this attitude. My question is this normalisation strategy towards China, will it also apply to other countries which are seriously violating human rights, whether the country internationally is less important economically and politically?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e683	I disagree with all parts of the post that Per Olaf Lundtägen has now made. The Norwegian Government has never stated that it has been a Norwegian political decision to give a peace prize to anyone. The previous government never expressed it either. On the contrary, they were committed to saying that there is an independent committee that gives this prize. Nor have we ever regretted it being given to any dissidents or to any individual. Nor will we ever regret that, because it is completely unnatural that a Norwegian government should regret a decision taken by an independent committee. The Committee is appointed by the Storting, but it takes its decisions independently. I perceive that that position is entirely in line with the foreign policy of the previous government in this area. I would like to stress that there is a difference between being the Nobel Committee and being the Norwegian Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e690	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e693	The situation of Tibetans in China is mentioned here. Similarly, we can mention the Uighur in East Turkey or the Xinjiang province. Both territorial conflicts date back to the early 1950s, and colonization is going on in a great way. Several of the gross human rights violations in China occur in these regions. I want to draw attention to the fact that in the rest of Asia there are 2.7 billion inhabitants – in China there are probably 1.3 billion inhabitants. There are great opportunities in Asia, also commercially. What we can accomplish through trade with Asia elsewhere, I think is an interesting foreign policy and commercial discussion. My question is: does it really serve Norway's long-term interests to bind us so strongly to China in the short term, whether the oil price is very important? [[President clubs]] But in the long run
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e701	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e704	I don't feel that we are strongly committed to China when we try to get out of a situation, as for many years we have had no dialogue with China. That's a completely different question. Clearly, this government is seeing opportunities in Asia. We see great opportunities in many countries. That is exactly why there has been a Crown Prince visit with, among other things. a business delegation in Vietnam. That's why we're working on our relationship with India. We invest a lot in a desire to be able to interact more with India. It is a large and important country, in great economic development. We are not least looking at the establishment of Burma and the development of Burmese society. There are very many of the countries for which it is important that we have a strategy. But there is another question than the question that Norway has no real dialogue on political issues today with one of the world's veto powers in the UN, the second largest economy in the world. In fact, we believe that perhaps we can achieve more for human rights in important areas, such as the situation in Tibet, by being in dialogue rather than standing without any kind of dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e711	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e714	The Prime Minister says that the work on human rights is about dialogue, but also about saying clearly when there is a violation of human rights. When it comes to being clear, this government has not become anything clearer than the previous one, despite the fact that it has had great ambitions in this area. But my question is about political dialogue. The government has said they will have political dialogue and contribute to changes in human rights in several countries. In what areas has the government strengthened this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e719	One of the most important areas will emerge when we present a human rights and assistance message to the Storting, where we will draw up a strategy on how, through our aid policy, we will help to strengthen human rights better, but also set limits, in terms of developments in the country, because when we are going to continue with assistance. I believe we are doing a thorough job on this, and we will put it forward for discussion in the context of aid policy. Then you can always discuss – much or little. I just record that at least the volunteers – or those organisations, NGOs – who work in this sector, clearly informed, after my meeting with Medvedev, that there was more clear speech from a Norwegian government than they had heard for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e726	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e729	Once again, the indigenous population experiences floods and major damage, as in 2013 and 2011. Climate change causes floods to get much closer than before. This represents a large and recurring burden, primarily for the people affected, but it is also difficult to deal with for the municipalities concerned, for county councils with road and other bodies. I know that there is a good cooperation between the NVE and flooded municipalities on the implementation of measures, but the NVE does not have the economy to do everything needed, from one to the other, and the municipalities and county councils are having trouble obtaining the funds that are needed. The revised national budget proposes to allocate 50 million. kr more for work on floods, related to what happened in 2013. Everything helps, but this is far from enough, and now large areas are left under water. What will the Prime Minister do to increase the contribution and efforts of the State towards the communities and regions concerned? And does the Prime Minister think that the state's efforts today are well coordinated in such contexts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e734	I think we can always get better. It's my little moustache as a politician – I always think society can get better. I think we can also improve flood prevention, cooperation and interaction between the various levels. That means that we always have to make sure that we learn from the things that happen. I think we've learned something before. That means we're better rusted now. One important thing it has had for Trysil, for example, is that a plant has been built in view of a 200-year-old flood and thus made sure that the damage is significantly less in Trysil. This means that it is important that we take on board the climate changes that are taking place, which means that several places can be affected by floods in the future, and that we prevent and work. And then we're going to do something that we were told from the Gjørv Commission was incredibly important in all the preparedness work, and it's having learning organisations. That means that we always have to evaluate the work we've done, and then we have to look at how we can do it better. It is a standing instruction for the work we do in preparedness — and it is also a matter of preparedness for floods and other things — that we should learn from the experiences that have been. We're probably going to learn that we did something good and something bad. I think it's a little too early, when the flood is still there, to say if we've met well enough and learned well enough now, but it'll be a post-evaluation of this show. So there's no doubt that it's going to cost more money to do this either. That is why we have also proposed that Stortinget grant 50 million. In the revised national budget, we see that there is a need for it. There will also be a need to look at tighter rules in the years to come for where to build. However, there is no doubt that moving the population somewhere more vulnerable to flooding than others — or exposed to clay or other — will be important in preparing us for more extreme weather, as part of the climate challenges, in the years ahead. But we always have to learn. If we're fully prepared – I'll never say we are. We can always get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e745	It's obvious, given the flood in 2013, that a 50 million mark-up. kr is too small. Then I'd like to raise a point: I was the case rapporteur for the Social Security Communication that was discussed last year by the Justice Committee. In the middle of the treatment came the flood of the East. In that regard, a unanimous committee stressed that: ‘It is a national objective to include flood prevention and mitigation in the recovery of the damage’. Why, then, does the government deduct from standard improvements in national contributions, when this is just about preventing and limiting future floods? When will the Prime Minister follow the objectives of a unanimous increase in this area? This is a question that many hope the Prime Minister will be clear and clear, so that one knows what to do next.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e757	I do not believe it is unnatural that you do not compensate for large standard improvements when you correct for a flood. It's a challenge. If you think that through each replacement or reconstruction scheme you have to build up to a completely different standard than it was before – we cannot admit that. So we're always going to look at where the limit goes for what's necessary standard raising for better flood safety in the future. It's a different theme than a general default highlight on it a recreater.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e762	It opens for one follow-up question – from Tone Merete Sønsterud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e766	Trysil, as the Prime Minister mentioned, is now facing major challenges because of the flood. Many residential, industrial and infrastructure buildings have been hit. In my opinion, the Tyrol community has dealt well with the situation, and the thrushes deserve praise. Then it's important that a society that is so hard hit by nature's challenges gets it helping them to prevent and repair. We have recently heard something about that at least parts of the insurance industry will send the bill to the municipalities. What does the Prime Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e771	In that case, there will be a legal question as to the rights of insurance companies vis-à-vis local authorities. I can't comment on that on the standing foot without going deeper into such a question. But I think it's an important reminder that when we reconstruct a flood, you also have to look at the danger of future floods. As I mentioned in my first answer, it's probably that more municipalities have to think that in some areas you don't rebuild, you have to find replacement areas. It has been done in some cases and makes you feel better rusted the next time the flood arrives. There have probably been some inclinations to build too much on flooded areas. You haven't thought so much that this can actually mean quite major damage and costs for the future. That means we have to work with that policy in a cooperation between the state and the municipality. In some cases, too, the State has helped to contribute to precisely that change in areas, in order to ensure that in the future there will be no reconstruction of a flood site.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e776	The oral question procedure is over, and we move on to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e788	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him. Questions 3 and 4 from the representatives Odd Omland and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås respectively to the Minister for Climate and Environment must be postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e805	This question, from the representative of Janne Sjelmo Nordås to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e808	My question goes to the Minister of Finance: ‘In its mention of a differentiated employer’s fee in the revised national budget, the government writes that it will be appropriate to compensate the transport sector through infrastructure measures. What concrete infrastructure measures is the government considering as compensation for any loss of a differentiated employer fee, what is the status of these projects today, how to finance them, and what concrete cost savings are calculated for the transport companies concerned when implementing the individual project?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e818	As can be seen from the revised budget and from letters to the Presidentship of Storting, the government will make its own proposal on the differentiated employer fee as soon as we have the final clearance with ESA. It is expected to be available in a short time. So the government's aim is to put forward the proposition for the Stortinget on June 6, which we've also suggested in the past. In the bill, the government will propose compensatory measures for the sectors receiving increased employers’ fees. The level of compensatory measures shall correspond to the increase in charges to be paid by the sectors. My preliminary assessment is that the most targeted compensation measures will be de minimis aid, the net pay system for seafarers, the purchase of transport services and infrastructure measures in the affected areas. We are now investigating which infrastructure measures will be the most effective, and will therefore come back to Stortinget with the concrete proposals in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e832	I thank you for your answer. Is it true that we can say for sure that you compensate heads for heads? Has business been closely connected? There are many, not least transport companies, who come out very badly. There are many small and medium-sized enterprises around in these states that have announced that they are coming out very badly with the solution that is now outlined. Have they been involved in the work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e841	As the government has said many times, the changes that Norway is now required to make are such that it is important to fully compensate them for the parts of the country and the industries affected. What the government is now working on is to compensate as accurately as possible. That is why we are now going through both de minimis aid – which will, of course, be very appropriate for the smallest enterprises – and a wide range of infrastructure measures. Of course, we have been in close dialogue with local and regional businesses. We've been in close contact with local and regional politicians, including the big benches, to get a sense of what will be perceived as the most accurate. I think it's important to listen to those who wear the shoes, and try to find out the tools that are best suited.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e848	The infrastructure measures assessed by the government are the measures contained in the transport plan, are the measures contained in the regional transport plans decided by the county councils, or are other measures not outlined in the plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e853	As I said in my first answer, these assessments are now completely in the final phase of the government. So I'd like to ask the representative Sjelmo Nordås to lubricate himself with a little bit of patience. The case will be submitted to the Stortinget on 6 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e862	‘In Dagbladet on 8 May, Parliamentary representative Ib Thomsen of the Progress Party says: ‘It is not certain that the NRK will be so good at orchestras, for example, as they are today with the broadcasting orchestra.’ CORK is the entire orchestra of Norway. The fact that Thomsen asks questions about NRK's operation of the orchestra creates uncertainty about the future of the CORK. Does the State Council share Thomsen's opinion that the NRK should not operate CORK, and what ambitions does the State Council have for the CORK and the orchestras?»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e874	Having a network of orchestras that transmit concerts of high artistic quality to the audience all over the country is important for this government. I also believe it is important that we have orchestras that act as spearheads, orchestras that stand out internationally, and that pave the way for others. Some orchestras may have special assignments or roles that are important for the whole country's cultural life. Today we have two national and four regional orchestras. We have a wind ensemble in Halden. We have an opera orchestra connected to the Norwegian Opera & Ballet. And then we have the Broadcasting Orchestra, the CORK, which is part of the NRK’s business – and which is not least related to the role of the NRK as a public broadcaster and intermediary of Norwegian culture. Through the NRK poster, the NRK is obliged to ‘hold a permanent orchestra covering a wide repertoire from entertainment music to symphonic music’. Until otherwise proposed and decided, the statutes reflect government policy. The NRK poster, also included in the company’s statutes, today sets out the framework for the NRK’s societal tasks. The government has said that in 2015 it will present a wide-ranging NRK growth report. As part of the work on the message, I will shortly post the NRK poster to the general hearing. I want to have an open debate on the NRK's framework and do not want to put any leads ahead on what I think about what the NRK should or should not be involved in. In any case, any proposals for changes to the NRK logo and the statutes will be presented to and debated in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e891	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State points out, the NRK is an important cultural institution. CORK is, in that context, the largest investment in the cultural field. Therefore, it would be a natural danger if an evaluation or policy had a desire to cut the cultural effort of the NRC. I would like to ask a follow-up question that is based on the following: on a scale from 1 to 10, how important is the state council per day that our public broadcaster takes on a cultural responsibility for the whole country, through e.g. CORK?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e900	I think the work done by the NRK is very important. As I said, they are obliged to hold this permanent orchestra, which is to cover a wide repertoire – from entertainment music to symphonic music. We are aware that today there are highly educated people playing in this orchestra. They do a formidable job, of very good quality. I don't think I'm going to take the lead for what's going to be comprehensive for what the NRK is going to do in the future. It is open to a good debate by putting the poster to the hearing. We will have a good opportunity to debate this later in Stortinget. There's no doubt that NRK's orchestra, CORK, keeps very high quality and does a very good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e909	I thank you for your answer and for – far on the way – the assurance regarding the role of the CORK in Culture Norway. Nevertheless, I allow myself to ask the Council of State – in connection with the government’s use of the concept of ‘freedom reform’: Will the freedom reform of the COR and the role of the public broadcaster become a possible sleep – or a drop in free fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e916	I don't think there's any reason to wonder about that. This government's reform of freedom is primarily about the spread of power; we are going to have more diversity. We're going to spread power by getting more private capital into cultural life – which we've had discussions about here in the past. We're going to get a geographical spread of power by getting a qualitatively good offer in music and orchestras around the country. Not least, we're going to spread power by getting a good, wide selection of women and men in different positions, so there's not a concentration of a few people in power in the different cultural institutions. Then I'm very concerned that once we've had a big message and adopted the framework and the content with which the NRK is going to operate, they have a board that's going to take care of the day-to-day operation, along with the administration that's in the NRK. I am concerned with an arm's length distance in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e947	Questions Nos. 3 and 4 are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e954	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘The Government Platform states that the Government will increase the use of bilateral investment agreements [[BITs]] Will the Council of State ensure that proposals for models for BITs are also sent at wide consultation this time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e963	As demonstrated by the Sundvolden platform, the government is committed to increasing the use of bilateral investment agreements, so-called BITs, where appropriate. The main objective of making investment agreements is to protect Norwegian investment abroad, especially in countries where there is a political and economic instability, and to ensure that Norwegian enterprises can compete in line with enterprises from other countries. It is also important that the agreements promote investment in developing countries and contribute to economic development in these countries. Norway has not completed BIT since the mid-1990s. While many attempts have been made to resolve the legal and political problems raised by the agreements, there are strong and mutually-protective interests: the need for investor protection and the right of States to regulate on their own territory. Since 2009, the European Commission has had a mandate to negotiate investment protection on behalf of the Member States. The EU has not drawn up a model agreement but has set out a number of objectives for the content of such agreements. The EU is currently negotiating investment protection with several countries. At the end of March, the EU sent a proposal for provisions on investment protection and investor-state dispute resolution in a future trade and investment agreement with the US, TTIP, at public consultation. The deadline for this consultation expires in July. The Government is working on a new mandate for bilateral investment agreements, based on the model agreement sent at general consultation in January 2008. The overall objective is to arrive at a solution that ensures both the need for protection of business by foreign investment and the right of the host country to legitimate exercise of its powers. We do not yet know how much the new draft mandate will deviate from what was at the hearing in 2008, but this is a topic of great public interest, and it has been a long time since the hearing took place. We therefore believe it is right to give all stakeholders the opportunity to make recordings, and I can confirm that we will ensure that the matter is sent to a wide consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e980	Then I thank you for the answer I wanted to get. Thus, the purpose of this issue has been achieved, namely to reassure those who have approached us with concern that it should not be sent to the hearing. I think they too will be pleased with the Council's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e989	‘16. May I met relatives with children who have great needs for help, based in Grimstad. The stories that they told me, about little user involvement and understanding, lack of offer, threats of sanctions if they said so, are frightening. This is sad, but unfortunately it looks like there are major challenges in this field in a good number of municipalities. What will the Council of State do to ensure a good and equivalent offer, as well as legal certainty and effective user involvement in all municipalities for users and their relatives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e996	Once again, I would like to thank the representative Freddy de Ruiter for addressing an important issue and a situation that is very difficult for many relatives with children who have a lot of help needs. My overall objective, as Minister of Health and Care, is to create patients and users' health and care services. Relatives shall have an important place in this work. They have experience and competence and are often spokespersons for users who need help to care for their interests and needs. User involvement is clearly described in laws and regulations. The Health and Welfare Act requires municipalities to ensure that businesses establish systems for obtaining patients and user experience and views. There are also provisions in the internal control regulation on user and related involvement. The rules allow for the development of new ways of organising interactions with relatives. Ensuring user and dependant influence is a management responsibility. Management must facilitate the hearing of users and relatives and ensure that employees receive training so that they can benefit from the resource represented by active users and relatives. Increased user management is also one of the aims of the bill on the right to user-driven personal assistance, which we promoted for Stortinget in May this year. Following the proposal, persons under 67 years of age with long-standing and high personal assistance needs shall be entitled to user-led personal assistance. The user then has the role of supervisor and organises the personal assistance according to his own needs. The aim of the scheme is to give the user an active and as independent life as possible. For the government, it is also important to improve the lives of the relatives. The right has therefore been extended to include support contacts and relief for families with disabled children. Health and care services shall be developed through real influence from users and relatives. As I said in this room last week, I would like to ask the Health Directorate to gather knowledge and experience from the models that are already in place to improve the interaction between users and relatives and the municipal health and care services, and make concrete proposals for tools. I would also like to ask the Directorate to consider the proposal for permanent representative and user committees, where patients, users and relatives can address issues of common interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1011	I'm very pleased that the Council of State acknowledges that here we have a way of going together, and I'm also very happy that a person points to the competence of relatives and users in their own, their children's and others' lives. What is the challenge, including: in the municipality of Grimstad, which I know very well after working very intensively on this matter, and as a relative and others are very clear, is that there is a lack of competence, especially at management level. The Council of State was also clear that this is a management responsibility. There is simply a lack of leadership competence to make use of the competences of the relatives, and not least to be able to meet relatives and users in an interpersonal and empathetic way. What can the Council of State do to increase this competence in municipalities, and in particular at management level?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1016	I cannot give any concrete assessment of the situation in Grimstad, but I very much agree with the representative's description of the importance of management and competence. We can do something from a national team about rules and laws, including: proposal for the right to personal assistance. However, we also need to contribute more to the competence of municipalities and also have managers who are competent to provide services to this group of users, perhaps among those who are most important for the local authorities to be aware of. In the large picture, the government's proposal for a community reform is about this, because creating large and robust professional environments is also about having competence in the municipal organisation to provide good, highly competent services to smaller groups and not just to the large patient groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1023	I think maybe we should leave the question of municipal reform. The municipality of Grimstad, for example, is a municipality of 20,000 people, who should have both the inhabitants and the volume enough to just solve that problem if in some way it's the logic here. I want to go back a little bit to what the Council of State said that we were responsible for the design of the laws and regulations and the framework of this business, and grab one thing that I think is absolutely crucial to make these services work better in the municipalities, and that is the term of safety, as we have defined in law, and where we have given the municipalities considerable responsibility for designing services. This is probably a concept that some municipalities hide behind, and also a concept that statesmen have different interpretations of when they carry out supervision. Will the Council of State go through and look at how this concept is handled by the municipalities, and how it is used to design offers, and how the county councillors carry out supervision from the same concept, so that one gets a uniform and equivalent service across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1030	As I said, I'm not going to comment on Grimstad in particular, but this is also a general problem. As far as management is concerned, we have launched a model programme from the principal's education at school to have a similar programme for managers in the health and care sectors in the municipalities. I think that can give good results. With regard to the concept of safety, the Storting, when it was established, gave a quite clear and further description than that it should only be sound. In the case of the concept of soundness, one shall not be at the lowest level, for if one is at the lowest level, the risk of a port below the threshold is too high, so that one shall be above the lowest level of soundness. It is important that this thinking is used by the municipalities and by the county councillors. As I said, we have asked the directorate to go through our experiences and look at this. Then we also have to assess an exclamation unit related to going into the cases where things have gone wrong, because we also need to learn more from the cases where things have gone wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1045	«Cystic fibrosis is a serious heritable disease. Medical development provides better diagnosis, treatment and survival. New medicinal products are very expensive. Will the Council consider taking initiatives towards the Storting to provide additional funding for a project that includes the Norwegian children concerned, so that they can obtain the medicine and at the same time we gain more knowledge, and will the Council follow up the work of the previous Minister of Health to establish international and Nordic cooperation with regard to the acceptable prices of the necessary medicinal products?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1052	Cystic fibrosis is a very serious disease that leads to reduced quality of life and lost years of life. Medicinal products used in the treatment of cystic fibrosis may be refunded on blue prescription today, either through a pre-approved refund or on application to HELFO. In 2012, a new medicinal product was introduced for the treatment of this disease. This medicinal product is authorised for the treatment of patients from six years of age who have a specific mutation of this disease. No cost-effectiveness assessment is currently carried out when individual reimbursement applications are considered, but this is currently under assessment in the ministry. That means that everyone who has applied for individual reimbursement, and who has this mutation today, has got this medicine refunded. The medicine should be taken for life in addition to other treatments, costing approximately 2.5 million. kr per patient per year. As part of a discussion on the priorities of rare diseases, national advice on health quality and priorities has assessed the health impact of Kalydeco on costs. The majority concluded that the benefits are disproportionate to the costs. The Council wants the Norheim Committee, which now re-evaluates the priority criteria, to discuss the possible distance between the health benefits of a patient group using the methods and the loss of health of other patient groups. It's too early to say anything about the outcome of their work. Within today's system, we do not have the opportunity to negotiate the price, but I will continue to work as the previous health minister took the initiative, and will discuss the issues with my Nordic colleagues at the Reykjavik Ministerial Council in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1063	As I see it, the solution for those in need of this special drug is to seek HELFO individually in order to obtain funding for a medicine that the Health Director and the National Council for Quality and Priority of Health have opposed. I guess it's about an individual refund scheme. It is so positive that the medicine is being funded for those who need it, but I believe that this matter, instead of being dealt with in this way, should have been presented to the Stortinget, as one might say. have done so in special cases before – for example: in the case of a special anti-femoral medicinal product. In particular, I believe this because the Minister of Health has previously had quite clear opinions about this way of solving it, namely the individual reimbursement. Then it can be the most resource-intensive people who get the medicine, or you can rely on a doctor who has to try out some professional advice to get access to the medicine. I repeat the question: Wouldn't it be better to involve Stortinget through a direct project with your own money, for example. mentioned in the revised national budget or next year's government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1070	No, it will not be necessary for this medicinal product. The patients in need of this medicinal product who have the medical indication or the mutation of this disease that makes them need this specific medicinal product will receive the medicinal product by their doctor applying for the medicinal product. In the case of so-called small patient groups and so-called expensive medicines, where there is such a clear medical indication, this is a system that works. Therefore, there is no reason to promote this as a separate matter for Stortinget. It is also important to say that when the previous Minister of Health presented a case for the Storting related to a specific pectoris medicinal product, there was a situation where no decision-making system was established for new costly methods in the specialist healthcare service. That decision-making system is now in place, and that means that one is in a completely different situation than the unclear situation that one was in last year when one was given different advice, different decisions and really had no decision-making system to introduce new methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1077	I thank you for the answer, but I just have to make sure of the following: can the health minister, since there is created ambiguity about this matter and the availability of these drugs, guarantee that all cystic fibrosis patients, who may have benefited from the medicine, will receive individual reimbursement? How, if necessary, will he communicate this news to all the doctors involved and to HELFO to ensure that they follow the instructions of the Minister of Health in the matter, or guarantee, and not the recommendations or advice that apply as of today? I think almost have to ask if the Minister of Health can guarantee this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1082	I spoke about this matter to TV 2 last week, and then I think I clarified the misunderstandings created by TV 2's newscasts that this was a medicine that was not available to Norwegian patients. I don't understand that this is a real problem as long as not a single patient, who has an indication to get this medicine, has been denied. That means that in the same way as before, it's like the patients who have indications of getting this medicine, and the doctor is applying to get it refunded, have been refunded so far. It does not affect the decision of the Committee of Priorities on the procedure for dealing with these matters. They shall be dealt with in accordance with the same legislation. So the representative Micaelsen knows just as well as I do that it is not the Minister of Health who deals with these individual reimbursements. It will be a medical indication that one has this mutation, that one belongs to the patient group to have this medicine, which will be the basis for a reimbursement. And if one meets those criteria, there are no examples that you haven't received reimbursement, and there's no reason that it's going to change in the future, either.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1100	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1107	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘In examining the last long-term defence plan, it was, among other things: decided to move the Air Force Inspector General to Bodø. The Minister of Defence has informed that this will happen later than foreseen. How does the Council of State assess the status of the implementation of the major and comprehensive change in the Air Force?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1116	I am pleased with the question and for the interest in the enormous change that the Air Force is now entering. The implementation of the long-term plan is as intended, except that we have adjusted the timeline for two actions. It's a conversion that's very complicated. There are many parallel processes and the need for close and extensive coordination. It is, to say it carefully, crucial that the pieces of this great puzzle be placed at the right time and place. One of the first things I asked for after joining as Minister of Defence was to get a comprehensive review of what is now the status of the measures in the long-term plan to be implemented. What we saw quickly was that it was necessary to make some adjustments to the timelines. One was, as the representative Nybakk says in the question, the decision to postpone the transfer of the Air Force Inspector-General from Rygge to Retan until the majority of the transfer was completed in 2020. Actually, the inspector-general was to be moved in two stages – in 2014 and 2016. We thought that it was an unwise decision because the need to have the management element together and not to move the management element at the same time as making the change, became very clear. So we keep this together, we prevent – or at least help prevent – loss of competence, and we strengthen the ability to carry out the conversion itself. Then we've also decided to continue Bodø as an operating base for QRA with two F-16s, as long as F-16s are going to have this role. It's a solution that we collectively consider to be better than to create a QRA on Evenes for a couple of years with F-16, before we cross over to F-35. So the decision about Evenes is completely firm, but we're going straight to F-35 on Evenes instead of going into F-16. Then we have in the investment proposition, which is now in the Stortinget, set aside money for the construction of the squadron building in Ørland, and it is very important that we now start building in Ørland, so that Ørland is ready to accept the first aircraft in 2017. There is an important step in bringing together as much power as possible in the future process in Ørland, and the decisions we have taken, including the start of construction of the squadron building, will help to increase predictability for the staff. It may help to prevent the flow of competence and, in particular, to provide sound management and management of the process. I get both reports and confirmations that the process is well on track, but it is, as I said, a large and demanding process, and that also means that in the course of the process things can appear that we need to adjust or change. But so far, everything indicates that the transition, with the grips we've now done, is going well. It will provide the Defense with a significantly enhanced operational capability when the new fighter planes are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1129	I think it's right that you keep the QRA in Bodø as long as we have the F-16. I also record that the Council of State believes it is important to start the reconstruction process on Ørland. I fully agree with that. I totally agree with all that. I also agree that there are parallel processes here that you have to keep in, and that this is a very, very big conversion. But it's also important that we see it in context, and I would like to stress that the establishment of the Inspector General for Air Force on Retan, i.e. in Bodø, is one piece of the puzzle that the Council of State said, but it's actually an important piece. Because it's clear that having the main base on the Ørland, that also means that Bodø should have the Inspector General, and you have to be sure that everyone implicitly understands that that's how it is. Also for the employees I would like to say that predictability here is necessary, and then I record that a timetable has been set for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1134	First of all, when we made that assessment, our main concern was to prevent the flight of competences and to keep the air defence management together so that we can contribute to the implementation of the transition, and that we can maintain the operational capability. Then it was to postpone the move all we could do. At the same time, we were very concerned, as the representative Nybakk is also in the process of setting a deadline for that. This is in order for all parties to have reasonable predictability, both in terms of the length of time remaining on the Back, and also in terms of when to build on the Retan in order to receive the GIL and the GIL staff. So we've wanted predictability, and we've wanted to strengthen the ability and ability both to implement the conversion and to provide the operational capability through the conversion. It's going to be a demanding task for everyone implicated and for all parts of the Air Force, but we think we've now taken action that at least will help make it easier than it looked into a period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1139	While this is going on, we read in Dagbladet and listen to the NRK that there is concern about the capacity of our Orion aircraft – the surveillance aircraft operating from Andøya – which is important for the situational understanding of the northern regions, with which the Council of State is familiar. I have also seen a look-up with concerns about the operational capability of our F-16 aircraft in Bodø and in Ørland. As the Council of State is involved, the conversion process in the Air Force is demanding. At the same time, it is important to maintain the production of strength while implementing the demanding transformation. What concrete steps will the Council of State take to ensure the operational capacities at the same time as she is in transition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1146	As the representative Nybakk quite rightly says, our MPA capacity is very important. I'm not going to go into the operational assessments of how we're now facilitating that we can continue the flight in a good way with Orion. But it is crucial for us to be able to maintain a capacity in this area – perhaps especially now in view of what is happening in our neighbourhoods. Then both the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister have recently been to Andøya and have spoken with both trustees, employees and management. In the case of F-16, the number of flight hours with F-16 has shown a drop since 2011 and was well below the figure of 9000 flight hours for 2013. The objective of the Air Force Inspector-General, as well as the Chief of Defence, is to return to the standard number of 9000 hours during 2014. However, there has been a considerable decline since 2011, and we have now implemented measures to correct this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1158	‘The size of Norwegian plant production determines the food safety of agricultural food. The size of the agricultural area and crops determines the size of the crop production. Will the Council of State organise financially for the reduction or increase of Norwegian plant production of agricultural food?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1165	The three main prerequisites for food safety in Norway are the continuous production of food, the maintenance of the production base and the proper functioning of the trading system. Norwegian plant production contributes significantly to food safety. The production of grass and fodder grain and pasture pasture resources forms the basis for livestock production in Norway, food grain production forms the basis for Norwegian food meal production, and Norwegian production of potatoes, vegetables, fruit and berries contributes to a large proportion of the demand for these products. The representative Lundtägen claims in the question that Norwegian plant production determines food safety for agricultural food. I do not agree with that. Norwegian plant production is important, but Norway has been and will continue to be dependent on importing important food, inputs, machinery and equipment. Therefore, as I pointed out at the outset, one of the prerequisites for food safety in Norway is the well-functioning trading system. On this issue — as in a question on the same topic last November — the representative linked Lundtigen’s food safety to Norwegian agricultural food alone. I think it's going to be wrong. Norway is in the lucky situation that we also have a large seafood sector. So, along with import opportunities, we have more sources of food supply for the population. Good land productivity is essential in order to increase food production in the years to come. Measures to improve soil quality include: important. Here farmers themselves have to take responsibility, but the advisory service and research also have important tasks. In the country's offer at the year's agricultural settlement, which was sent to Stortinget on Friday last week, we have earmarked significant funds for a focused effort on drainage, consulting and research with the aim of contributing to better agronomy. The government wants Norwegian plant production to continue to play an important role in our food safety work. In the country's offer of this year's farm settlement, we have presented a scheme that provides opportunities for those who want to invest in the future to increase Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1180	The question was reasonably precise. It concerns agricultural food. The questioner is fully aware that one does not live by bread alone; one must also have fish. But this applies to agricultural food. Then I get the answer that one does not agree with the problem, and then I would say that it is not particularly surprising that this year's negotiations broke, because one therefore disagrees with the understanding of food security. There is a question that needs to be settled here as soon as possible. But my supplementary question is about what was my specific question: Will the Council of State organise financially for the reduction or increase of Norwegian plant production of agricultural food? There it is possible to answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1187	When we discuss food safety, I think it's quite natural that we also implement what fish have to do with it, because it's a very big and important industry for Norway. We have submitted an offer that will increase food production in Norway. Let us see, for example: in the case of pig, chicken and egg production, the offer made by the State is better than that required by agriculture because of the unaltered power price. So what's my answer is that food security is about a lot of different terms that we rely on to ensure the Norwegian population the food they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1194	In 1884 parliamentaryism was introduced. It gave state councils the right to meet in Stortinget, and it also meant that they would answer the questions that were asked. I therefore repeat the question for the third time: will the Council of State organise financially for the reduction or increase of Norwegian plant production of agricultural food?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1201	The economy of plant production will also depend on the crop year that has been. One of the reasons we've had a fall in the economy – or had challenges in the production of grain, which I expect the representative is aiming for – is the fact that we've had some bad harvest years. We'll see what it's like this year, but it has a big impact on the self-rescue statistics. To the extent that any country has tried 100 pst. self-sufficiency, if it's a goal, North Korea is the nearest one to come. The result of such a policy speaks for itself. It shows that we rely on international trade to ensure Norwegian consumers the food they depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1212	‘Agricultural budget heading figures show an increase in agricultural incomes from 2006 to 2014 from 162 000 to 305 500 SEK/year. For other groups, income in the same period has increased from NOK 359 700 to NOK 505 300. Does the Council of State believe that a percentage equal income development in the next few years will increase or decrease income differences between agriculture and other groups?»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1219	In all wage and income statements, the trend of income is measured as a percentage. It is clear from both wage statistics and the reports of the Technical Calculation Committee on income statements. If a group of wage recipients makes 80 pst. by a second, and both groups receive the same percentage increase in income over the next few years, the salary of the first group will remain at 80 pst. of the other. In addition, percentage growth with a comparison group would be a leveling. In addition, with regard to the agricultural figures of the budget title, the total calculation is a sector accounting for self-employed persons which cannot be used in the same way as wage statistics. The Stortinget has joined in the treatment of both the agriculture and food reports of the central government in 2000 and the agricultural and food reports of the red-green government in 2012. The representative Pollestad raises the question to compare income levels. The total calculation is not suitable for measuring the level of income in agriculture. The income has been calculated on the basis of recorded sizes and is the result of a number of decisions taken by traders. Agricultural policy can only create a framework and provide income opportunities for farmers themselves. As a private trader, farmers have a significant responsibility for their own income. Governments cannot guarantee the net income as long as the revenue is measured with recorded amounts, without numerical efficiency requirements. My assessment and the government's assessment of this are fully in line with the views of the previous governments: that equal income trends are equal in percentage terms, that additions beyond this are level increases, and that the total agricultural calculation is not suitable for measuring income levels in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1230	I may experience what the representative Lundtigen did when it came to the previous question, namely that it is difficult to get a clear answer. My question was whether income trends in the next few years will increase or decrease income differences. I hope that the Council of State can give an answer to that. In its offer to agriculture, the country adds up to an income increase of 3,5 pst. That means $10,700 for agriculture, and for other groups $17,700. When I have helped the Council of State so well on the way, is there any basis for saying that percentages of the same income will increase or decrease the income of other groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1237	This is how you can claim that you do not answer the question if you do not agree with the answers, and that is what I experience here. The fact is that the total calculation is not suitable for measuring the level of income, but it is an income development. I would quote from the agricultural and food message from the Stoltenberg II government, which the party representing Pollestad was part of: ‘The total calculation gives a reasonably good indication of the difference in relative income development between agriculture and other groups, over time. However, the total calculation is less suitable for several reasons to measure the absolute level of income in agriculture.» And on the other hand, «The consequence of these conditions is that the total calculation cannot be used to measure the level of income in the agricultural sector.» So it's from the message your government sent out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1254	I assume that the Council of State believes that NOK 17700 is more than NOK 10 700, so that the income gap increases. For individuals engaged in food production in Norway, not only the total number is crucial, the distribution is also crucial. Then my question is, because I also believe we agree that the income growth of the state's offer – which is now being negotiated elsewhere in this house, because we can read in the press, while the council stands here – adds up to 3.5 pst. in income development: can the Council of State estimate the proportion of the annual agricultural works that will experience an income growth of more than 3.5 p.p. and the proportion of the annual agricultural works that experience an income growth of less than 3.5 p.p. based on national offers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1261	What I can at least answer is, for example: the average consumption of milk in Norway with 24 cows of income in the coming years. If I don't remember completely wrong, they will have an income development of approximately NOK 16 000. It's because they have two years' work. So there's a bunch of factors that determine if you're able to pick up that money. Do you want to deliver the quotas that you actually have, how do you invest in the farm, and how do you use the resources that you're sitting on? What is important is to stress that farmers are self-employed, and I am concerned that we should treat them like that. I know few self-employed people in our society who work little, who work a year's work, so I believe it is also relevant in the course of looking at the total income and comparing it with other self-employed people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1272	‘In an interview with the NRK, the Council of State states that the government will impose quality requirements on universities and colleges and that this will affect the future structure of the sector. Institutions that either do little research, which have few students on campus or are low in education quality, are encouraged to join others. Does this mean that it is up to the government to merge or deposit universities and colleges with coercion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1279	The government's policy is that the structure should be guided by quality requirements, not vice versa. We have said that we will present a big message on the structure of higher education in the spring of 2015. We are now in the process of setting clear standards for quality in education and research, robustness in professional environments, and cost-effectiveness. Then – in the right order – we have to look at what the landscape must look like in order for our institutions to meet those requirements. There is a lot that is good in the Norwegian higher education sector, and we have a lot to be proud of. But we also have some areas where we need to get better. We clearly see that there are some institutions that score low and have low results on several quality indicators. The question then is whether these institutions provide the quality of education and research that we depend on. The results of the state-of-the-art report on higher education show the need for a thorough review of the structure of universities and higher education institutions, so that we can be sure that study services throughout the country are anchored in robust professional environments and maintain high quality. I am also concerned that the large UH institutions should be resource efficient. A reduction in the number of institutions could facilitate the dimensionalisation of study provision in line with needs, without necessarily being the same as the disappearance of study sites. The notification must discuss the impact of structure on institutions' prerequisites in order to ensure strong and profiled professional environments with international impact and competitiveness, which provide education and conduct research meeting the needs of society as a whole. Government and social and business life have high expectations and ambitions for universities and colleges. The sector has an important social role to play in providing the skills that society needs. Universities and colleges have extensive powers to dimension their study offerings and to establish and complete studies. We are, at the current stage, engaged in good dialogue and anchoring in the university and higher education sectors to create a common understanding of the problems, challenges and opportunities. That's why we add up to dialogue with and input from different stakeholders. The representative of Tingelstad Wøien refers to the launch conference and comments on it – it was at the launch of the Research Barometer and the State Report and in a subsequent interview with the NRK that I was very clear that the institutions must make a thorough self-evaluation of all parts of the business, as part of the forthcoming dialogue on the future university and higher education sector. The review by institutions to identify their strengths and weaknesses is important in order to focus on potential merger partners. Of course, I prefer universities and colleges themselves to take responsibility for consolidating and building more solid disciplines, and that is why it is currently too early to advance the outcome of the forthcoming dialogue. It is therefore also too early to say anything about whether coercion may be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1300	I appreciate that the Council of State says that one should have quality, and that one wants to come up with new quality indicators – as I understand the Council of State at least – before one looks at what kind of structure it will provide. It's also been my intention, that it's the most important thing first. So the state councils mentioned the words ‘robustness’ and ‘robust’ in the trade unions – twice – in their articles. I wonder if the Council of State could now elaborate a little on what he is putting into this with robustness? It is that from the interior we know that Evenstad is a campus under the Hedmark High School, which we know is the world leader in its field. We know that the University of Gjøvik is also the world leader in its field. They are now working together with the University of Lillehammer on NCE at Raufoss. I'm just wondering, what is the Council of State thinking that the two colleges might be able to achieve added value by merging, other than that they lose a principal? I want to hear a little about what the Council of State is adding to quality indicators and robustness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1309	It is true that it is fully possible to merge two good institutions and get a worse institution, and there is no lack of examples of it from public Norway and elsewhere. Nor is it that the largest is always better. I just want to take an example from economic training in Norway. The NHH in Bergen is considered one of our best financial institutions. It's not necessarily our largest financial institution. Nor has it been given that any place in Norway will get a better institution by merging. But then we also have good examples of the opposite. When the University of Finnmark joined the University of Tromsø, it probably raised the quality of the University of Finnmark, and it also gave the University of Tromsø good opportunities. I know evenstad well. Even though it is a very special, quite unique offer in the country. It has long traditions and long roots. It is a very unique offer in the country and is of course good at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1320	I think the council has a good point there -- all colleges and all campuses should be unique within their own. We know that the University of Lillehammer is, especially in film, we know that the Gjøvik University is it in information security, we know that Evenstad is – and also the NHH, as the Council of State said. So I hope that the Council of State will focus on that when he is going to present the new big message – finding out the uniqueness of each institution – because it will be a challenge to balance what is unique, with what is needed in the different regions. Then it's also like when you're going to look at the possibility of shutting down or merging, the old district colleges, as they were before, have a role beyond being just a knowledge institution in the area that they work. We know that many of the students who go to school, who stay behind, also have a great function in the territory that they belong to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1327	There's a lot of good points here. I also want to say that it is important to have a decentralised university and higher education sector, but it does not have to mean that we organise ourselves in exactly the same way as today, both because there are differences between the number of institutions and the number of places of study – that is an important difference – and because it may well be so important for decentralisation that strong regional centres are built up. That's the first one. The second is that I very much agree that you should think, what are our forces? Then, of course – to some extent – you have to have, for example. education and training of health professionals throughout the country. That's an important part of it. But the fact that you think through, for example. how we can focus even more on what we're really good at, which you've been good at indwellings, cultivating it further and maybe prioritizing something else down, I think is a good idea. I think you should also look at in-country states – not least if you want a university – how to cooperate more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1340	Here it wasn't so popular, but I still appreciate the fact that the Council of State accepts the following questions: «In June d.o.b. Sogn and Fjordane counties shall determine the further operation or closure of Sogn Sogn and Hågebrukskule. The school and resource centre in Aurland train agronomists in organic farming from all over Norway and abroad and provide training to farmers and teachers. The Vest Competence Board also has unique projects here. Between 11 and 12 million. kr of the short-term investment need is now lacking in order to be able to continue operations. Will the Council of State take the initiative of a joint investment plan that preserves the school and the unique environment of competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1349	Governments come when Stortinget calls – it should just be missing. Secondly, it is probably not only the quantity but also the quality of those present that are important. It is such that Sogn Agricultural and Horticultural Schools have a landline offer of Vg2 and Vg3 in organic farming. I have also had a meeting with them to discuss this matter. They receive, as a shoreline, State grants for the operation of the landline. Investments in school buildings are the responsibility of the county council, also for country lines. So it's not like the state owns the landlines, it's like the state gives an extra grant because it's open to searching from all over the country. However, school construction is still the responsibility of the county, as is the case with all other school buildings throughout Norway. Therefore, it would be very special if the Ministry of Knowledge went in with funds to one county municipality for investment in school buildings. There would be a very clear discrimination between this one school building, this one county municipality, compared to all other school buildings throughout Norway, including the school buildings of the representative’s own home country. In addition to a number of other activities not covered by the Ministry of Knowledge, the Centre of Competence is run by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I therefore believe that it is not natural for me to take an initiative on a common investment plan for this school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1360	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is encouraging that he has actually engaged himself directly in a dialogue with this school. Now the status is that the county has already guaranteed 26 million. SEK of short-term investment needs, and the municipality of Aurland has guaranteed 5 million. So it's going to be $12 million. kr. This isn't any line. It is a unique line in Norway, and it educates people in a field that clearly has a significant future need. Then, of course, the government has been hurt to propose an agricultural settlement that dramatically cuts the environmental impact of the agricultural agreement, so this kind of comes to the top, if it were to go down on this matter. The question then is: will the Council follow up this matter with the Minister of Agriculture, perhaps the Minister of the Environment, to contribute directly or indirectly to the actual achievement of a solution that maintains this line?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1373	We're constantly discussing issues that go across the different departments, and that's of course also how we're interested in getting recordings and meeting with those who meet us. We have many interested representatives in the government parties on the Stortinget, who also ensure that this happens. But then I think it's important to keep a little bit of order here. It is precisely because this is an important and unique offer that we provide them with state aid. Only the country lines get what they get directly from the state budget. It doesn't get regular high school. So already there is a recognition from the state that this is a special offer that we want to maintain. But the buildings are the responsibility of the county council. I think it'll be a little special and unfair to the others if you suddenly go into one building in one state and make a special grant there, while all the other country lines -- not to mention all the other high schools, where there's also a need for investment -- get zero dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1382	I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1387	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-28.ana.ud621e1400	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
