ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e26	The representative, Mr Andersen Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e29	On behalf of the representatives Line Henriette Hemdal, Rasmus Hansson and myself, I am promoting a Document 8 proposal to ensure that illegally obtained products from sharks are not imported into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e46	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to begin the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e53	There is a need for new health services in the coming years, including: as regards the quality, quantity and upgrade of medical/technical equipment and ICT in hospitals. Before the election, the Workers' Party promised an investment pledge of 12 billion. DKK over four years – for the current ageing period – for hospitals. Right answered an hour, criticised our plan for being too ambitious and promised concretely greater billions growth to the hospitals with the Right than to the Workers' Party. Now we have the fasit. In several areas the government breaks clear promises they gave the voters a few weeks before the election. The hospital budget was initially weak, 1 billion. kr lower than promised, in order to be on track to achieve this investment objective. The government also proposes to include new tasks in the hospital framework, without financial compensation to hospitals. The so-called free choice of treatment, for example, which was promised to be added to the framework, is now to be taken within the framework. That makes the budget even tighter. The budget agreement involves additional efficiency cuts in hospitals of up to 100 million. kr. Now hospitals are making their budgets for 2015, based on these frameworks. I read online. Health South-East refers to the state budget as its growth rate is lower than that of government budgets in recent years, and as ‘less’ than is foreseen for 2015. At UN, they're planning to cut the activity by 170 million. kr in 2015. From other health regions, too, we hear that the budget line actually leads to cuts. The Prime Minister said before and after the elections that tax cuts do not take precedence over government budgets, but that is exactly what it has. How does the Prime Minister feel that hospitals should be able to live up to the expectations that the Right itself has created when they lack so much funding? Is the Prime Minister standing by the promise of at least 12 billion. Does the government intend to follow up these commitments in the future budgets to achieve this objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e66	The budget that has now been adopted implies a growth of about 2 billion. in hospitals. Getting a growth of 2 billion. In the hospitals to become a budget cut, it is well done. This is one of the deciduous highest growth rates we've had. That means over 2 pst. treatment activity next year. Although hospitals will always have to change, change, work more effectively — do it — this will be a budget that will provide considerable room for increased patient treatment next year. We've had higher growth in patient treatment in the two years this government has been sitting, than it had in the last eight, red-green, years. So it's true that we haven't quite reached the goal we set from the right-hand side of the election. Whether we reach that goal, we'll first be able to evaluate at the end of this period. We want a boost both for better quality and for more patient care. A description from the Workers' Party that a budget that gives higher growth in patient treatment than what happened under the Red-Green Government is a cut budget, gets a little far away from reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e79	I didn't call it a cut budget. It's going to be 2 billion. kr more, but the government promised 3 billion. kr. The result in hospitals is cut, including: in investment, ICT and after-sales. So it's like you put into the hospital framework a series of tasks that shouldn't be within the framework, but in addition. I'm talking about 150 million. SEK for free treatment choice, 110 million. kr for pelvic flakes treatment, 20 mill. kr to compensate for the removal of aid for Revmatology medicines and 30 million. kr to the ME centre and the cross-section of boys. In addition, the purchase of 60 million laboratory services is cut in funds. kr and the 100 million additional efficiency cut in the budget agreement. kr. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister in the follow-up to it: if these activities are maintained, the total increase of 2 billion would have to be taken off. kr in the budget, without financial compensation? Is it not something that is at the expense of the patient treatment we are looking for, and all the other investments the hospitals are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e84	People with femoral cords are patients. People with ME are absolutely patients, and we're prioritizing them. It's not that because we're organisationally pointing out some groups that are going to have a better system, there are patients that you're not going to treat, I assume that the Workers' Party within its budgets is going to treat exactly the same groups. I think that the question becomes a little special, when you later think that some groups are not part of the health care system and are going to be treated. When we say there's a growth of over 2 pst. In the treatment of patients, of course, it means that some of the groups who have received too little treatment have not received a good enough focus within the 2 pst. which is to be dealt with by this budget. That we then, organisationally, clearly, say that we should give priority to some groups, I think, is right, because politicians have to take responsibility for the fact that some of the weakest groups in health care are being given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e89	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Micaelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e92	The point, of course, is not that patients are not patients. The point is that the femoral rights patients we're talking about here had a separate post separately funded on the outside of the state budget. Now Erna Solberg, Bent Höie and the rest of the government have put it into the state budget of the hospitals, and then she calls it "growth" in patient treatment. This list of activity growth, that is, how many more patients we're going to treat next year, is clearly unrealistic. We have asked the Ministry of Finance, and if you take away some of the proposals that are obviously not new things, the patient growth is much lower. We now get reports of, as Jonas Gahr Støre was about, that a number of places are now planned for cuts, not increases, based on the weak hospital budget the Prime Minister has presented. I would like to ask – again: can the Prime Minister guarantee, not that it will not be more efficient, but that her budget will lead to better patient treatment in many places? Or are we facing a situation with new cuts and deficits in the hospitals with her budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e99	Next year we will have better patient treatment for many important patient groups. Some of those who have not been properly prioritised are prioritised in this budget by making some of the weakest groups visible. This applies, for example: the needs for the treatment of ME patients. We're making package runs within cancer, which we suggested in the right-hand side of the opposition. We are now carrying out a lot of work internally in all health businesses during this year, which is realized next year, and which means that cancer patients will be better and more systematically treated in Norway. Yeah, it's a budget that means we're treating more patients next year, a budget that's at the top of what's been the increase in health budgets. If we see the two budgetary years together as this government has had, we have a growth in health budgets and treatment that is significant over the red-green period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e106	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e109	The Christian People's Party is and has been concerned that the input-driven funding will be used to prioritize the treatment provided by the hospital, thus increasing the hospital's revenues. There are cases where this has been shown to have resulted in adverse practices. My question to the Prime Minister is: What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that the patient and the patient’s needs are at the centre – not the effort-driven funding, which means that a person prioritises more according to the hospital’s income than according to the patient’s needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e117	The main governance barometer is the patient rights existing, where there are clear and clear priorities between the serious disease and the medically defined limits to be applied to each individual. In addition, we have the golden rule, which we reintroduced, which clearly directs all health businesses to the fact that the growth of drug treatment and mental health protection should be greater than the growth of somatic treatment. It is in itself a clear and clear prioritisation of those with the greatest challenges and who have the most difficulty. And together, these control parameters must help us to ensure that patients with the greatest needs are given priority first. But if you have free capacity to also do simple surgery, you want to use it, because it takes some time to convert and for example. move surgeons to the specialty of the russian. You don't get to do that overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e124	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e127	In 2015, Norwegian hospitals will have an operating cut of more than 700 million. as part of the so-called red tape and efficiency reform of the government. This increased by well 100 million. kr as a result of the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. This operating cut is a cheese match inspired by the Ministry of Finance. If Norwegian hospitals are to deliver more and better quality for the money, a change in organisation and guidance is needed. As you know, the model of driving led to major health bureaucracies. How can the government believe in a patient-friendly outcome of a cheese match without focusing on organisation and rental, where the first measure should be to introduce urban rental in all hospitals, and where the leader is given responsibility for both quality, staff and budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e134	I believe that it is, and it has actually shown us the hospital sector in many places, room for better use of resources. There is a big difference between what individual hospitals get out of about the same type of resources. It is about local organisation. It's about how good you are in local management, about how the structure is. So you can always ask the question, is that if you sit far away, you get to the conversion that gives the good results? Or are they the ones who are close to it? I think they're the ones who're close. This means that management has to meet this locally and produce the results. At the same time, we have brought back more money in base, which means that it's not a cut of 700 million. kr in the health sector but an expectation of an improvement in efficiency. I think that this slightly broad government from the state is better than sitting here and believing that all our different ways of organizing the individual department or sector in a hospital are best to create more efficient local and better treatment. I believe that those who are local are, in fact, with clear management parameters as a requirement for efficiency improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e139	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e142	For the Left, there is no target of maximising hospital growth and of maximising hospital coverage. We are most concerned with preventing and contributing to public health. That's where we might split up a little bit politically from the Right. In the budget agreement, 30 million came in. This is a good way of preventing and creating a better life for the individual patient, so that one can stay at home longer. It can also lead to fewer hospitalisations and relieve hospitals. On the part of the government, a means of welfare technology is distributed to the statesmen. The question is: we already have a large bureaucracy in health – within the Health Directorate and within regional health businesses. Now are we going to build a health bureaucracy of the statesmen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e151	Welfare technology is largely a question of what we do in the care of the elderly, and the community is closer to individual municipalities. This means that they can more easily stimulate the good projects out there. Therefore, the statesmen, with their greater local knowledge, are not a bad idea to use in these kinds of contexts. If we're going to make large applications systems into the Health Directorate, it's going to be quick, because the Health Directorate doesn't have the same local skills, and it's important to remember that local knowledge is more out of the country. Then we have to work with a lot more than $30 million to get the big promise we need in welfare technology in the care of the elderly. There we have to work with the purchasing, with the way we buy, we have to work with the collaboration on technological development with the parts of the industries that work with this, and we have to learn from the good example, because there are lots of good examples out there in the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e158	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e161	There is a big gap between what the government says is most important, and what it shows in practice is most important. Before Erna Solberg was elected Prime Minister, she talked mostly about health and less about tax cuts. As Prime Minister, she spends much more money on tax cuts than she spends on increasing health budgets. We have a financial debate in Stortinget, where there was an alarming reluctance on the part of the government parties to talk about the big tax cuts. It's obvious that the government feels the most comfortable talking about things other than what they give the highest priority. Then I think it's time for the Prime Minister to comment and respond clearly to why she prioritizes as she does. She spends a lot more money on tax cuts than on increasing health budgets. Why is tax cuts more important for Erna Solberg than increased health budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e166	The government increases welfare benefits and the public sector more than the tax cuts made. Overall, there are significantly greater efforts to improve public services and improve public infrastructure than the tax changes made. But there has been no lack of argument as to why we're also making tax changes, because we're facing a society that needs to change just to ensure the well-being of the future. It is possible to close your eyes, pretend that everything is going to be like before, and expect the oil industry to carry us forward. This government doesn't. We know that the health budget of the future, the elderly care of the future and the education system of the future depend on the fact that we are now stimulating the growth of the economy in new industries and new businesses. That's why we're making changes to tax systems, we're spending more money on infrastructure, and we're putting a record high on research and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e171	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e175	Yesterday, Bergen's Official Journal could reveal that the Minister of Justice's clear order not to prioritize the posting of the long-term asylum children never reached those who carry out the work. The letter of assignment from the Ministry of Justice to the Directorate of Police made it very clear that the long-standing asylum children should not be given priority when it comes to posting. But the same message never went further in the letter from the Police Directorate to the State Department and to the Police Foreign Unit. This is very serious, and yesterday we got a clear reason from the Minister of Justice. What's a paradox here is that this has been one of the most mentioned issues in this field just in the last year. And we know that these letters of assignment are the very instructions for use for the etats in the follow-up to the concrete work. Both the Minister of Justice and the Police Director have said that this is a very regrettable error, and so we do not know the consequences and what this could have resulted in. My question to the Prime Minister is: When we have now come to know that there has been a very regrettable error here, is it not right to stop the posting of the long-standing asylum children until we have a permanent solution in place, which we had an agreement on in the Nydalen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e186	The Minister of Justice has been very clear to the police that the instructions given in the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police should be followed up from yesterday by absolute compliance. It's about making a change. Where the previous government in its letter of assignment to the Foreign Affairs Department and the Police Directorate had said that priority should be given to long-term children, we took this priority away. However, it remains a priority for children to be sent out quickly, precisely because it is a burden to be in a situation where broadcasting is not enforced. I believe that the Minister of Justice yesterday was quite clearly sorry, and I think it was a perfectly correct regret to give, because it should not be such that clear political messages given to the police do not go to the external links. Now we're going to do a review, and the Police Directorate is going to do a review of what it's been like in practice, because it's at the same time a governance dialogue. Then you have to see which other steering signals are given in addition to this letter of assignment. Would it be that we should stop all broadcasts? No, we believe that we should deal with what the government has said: not to send out long-term children, as the priority was before, but to ensure that we can enforce the foreign policy for which there is a broad majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e199	The government has shown a strong implementation in those parts of the asylum agreements that have been important to the government party. We have also agreed that there should be a faster return, and it was followed up immediately. The ban on entry, which was a legislative amendment, has already been implemented. Yes, even issues that were not part of the asylum agreement – now the latest requirement – have been implemented by the government. But what is a regulatory change, which provides a lasting solution for the long-standing asylum-seekers, is not followed up. Then my question is to the Prime Minister: Does she feel that – call it – the balance of the cooperation agreement we have at this point has been maintained with the follow-up we have seen so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e204	It is true that there are two parts of the embellishment in that agreement. One is the one-time solution, and it's in place: there are 318 things that are now being treated after this. Several of them are determined by the fact that more children are allowed to become. There are 165 children in that one-off solution – 318 people when taking with adults who are associated with these children’s problems – and they are being treated. That means that the immediate solution that was agreed on, it's being implemented now. Then there's a question: we should have had the change of regulation in place. It's been at the hearing. The challenge was that the hearing bodies thought that what we had in common would not work after the intention. That is why we have a good dialogue, and I hope that we will soon have a legal understanding that will enable us to achieve the intention that lies, namely that there should be some liberalisation in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e209	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir S. Tuskedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e212	The Christian People's Party is concerned that we get clarity in these agreements and clarity in what is happening. Yesterday Stortinget got a complaint from the Minister of Justice in a very serious case, in a serious situation. We're waiting with excitement for what's now going to be the follow-up. To be specific: we follow a little bit in the newspapers, and I was surprised when I discovered that Bergen's Official Journal today quotes the director of the Police Directorate, Odd Reidar Humlegård, who says: ‘There is no reason to put anything to rest. There's nothing to suggest that there's reason to change something now." Then I wonder, in the light of the Minister of Justice's regret, what shall we listen to? Is the Prime Minister behind the Commissioner's statement that there is no reason to change anything now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e224	The Minister of Justice has asked for a review of the issues, the priorities and what has happened in the issue of children, and the background to the fact that the letters of assignment to the Foreign Affairs Department have not been followed up on what was actually the clear political governance signal. I cannot support statements made by the police director, based on the fact that we have asked for this review. Then we have to see whether that review shows that the practice has been in line with the government's signals, that the document has not been followed, or that the document and the letter of assignment have been followed, and that it has therefore not been in line with the clear political governance signals of the government. Before we get it on the table, it is not possible to give an assessment of whether what the police director is now saying is right or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e229	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e232	A year has now passed since the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left signed an agreement on the foreign field, where the parties, among other things, have signed an agreement. agreed that there would be a permanent arrangement for the long-term asylum-seekers. We still do not know what it will mean in practice, and yesterday it was found that the government's announced change in the practice of sending long-term asylum children has not been followed up either. It is the government's responsibility at all times to ensure that the underlying agencies follow up government policy. Then my questions become to the Prime Minister: When did the letter of assignment actually go to the police, how long has it been until now, and what does the government actually do to make sure that the underlying agencies implement the desired changes requested by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e239	In the Norwegian governance community, once the government has given an instruction to an underlying directorate, the directorate is obliged to implement that instruction. Then it is also a prerequisite that the steering signals move on to their underlying stations. It has not happened in this case, and it has the Minister of Justice yesterday lamented. That was a very timely regret, because this is not the way the management system should work in Norway. We are now doing a review – as I said in my answer to previous questions – of what has actually been done, and whether the governance dialogue has underlined what has been the government's priorities, or whether that is how the police's broadcasts have been practiced in violation of what has been the government's clear signal. The Minister of Justice has been quite clear that it is of course his and the government's responsibility to implement the policy, and that means that we need to better control the follow-up of the underlying agencies. But our starting point is actually that they're going to follow what they're told, not that we're going to expect them not to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e248	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e252	It is easy to understand the frustration of the Christian People's Party and the Left over the agreements concluded and the way they are either followed up or not followed up. This has been a much-mentioned issue in the media throughout the year – both in the Stortinget and in the media. According to the Minister of Justice, the letter of allocation was sent in January, and the disposal letter was sent to the underlying offices in March. It's starting to be months ago. And you have to ask yourself – especially when you see it in the light of the police director’s statements in today’s newspapers, where he says that there is no basis for doing anything – whether the government has really not checked the follow-up to the letter of assignment and the order for disposal in such a central political area in the eleven months that have passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e259	The question of whether or not one has followed up is now being reviewed by the police, with a report to the Minister of Justice. It's to see if you've followed up the signals that were clearly given to the Police Directorate, or if there's been another practice. The answer to whether it's been a different practice, we don't get until we get a review of this. Of course, if you're always going to follow up, it's a lesson for the Ministry of Justice that this kind of mistake is happening. The final evaluations must be made once we have received the report from the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e266	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e269	For the past six months, I have spent a lot of time negotiating with the government. I've learned that if we have a deadline, we can agree. Can the Prime Minister give us a deadline for when we are to agree on this, in this Chamber, so that it undertakes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e274	I assume that the representative Skei Grande believes the permanent solution. We have an ongoing dialogue on when we're going to be able to get a formulation that all the four parties agree on will work. We thought we had one, which we sent to the hearing. I have great hopes that this is right around the corner, and that at least it is in place before Christmas. But we have to be sure that we have hit the plank in terms of what was our consensus. And this is hard fun: we're going to put more emphasis on the children's best, but it shouldn't be an open bar door, so everyone is going to be allowed to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e279	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e282	Twice before, a majority of Stortinget has concluded agreements that have allowed a large number of long-term children to remain in Norway. The first time was when the government put Erna Solberg in the last time, it agreed with the Center Party and SV in Stortinget, the second time was when the red-green government made an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Both agreements resulted in many children becoming children. One prerequisite for both agreements was that while waiting for a new legislation, the cases were put to rest, so that families with children who could be affected by new rules were not sent out. Hopefully, what we're going to get now is a third round of such an agreement, but it hasn't been followed up by putting matters at risk. That proposal has been voted down in Stortinget twice this year. So even now the government says you won't. How is it possible, if the intention is for more children to stay, not to stop the broadcasts before a new legislation is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e289	I would like to remind you that there are two different parts of this agreement. One is the one-time solution for long-term children. It is in place, and there was a special vigilance to prevent people from being sent out under it. Now we have all the people who feel that they can search within it. So it was going to sort out some of the things about people who have been here for a very long time. For the permanent solution, which will apply for the years to come, it has never been a prerequisite for us to stop and not have the transport of persons. So the long-term scheme has been a more liberal system to help solve some of the most difficult issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e296	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e299	Health Minister Höie said on Monday at the Political Quarter in the NRK that there are very clear reports from the Health Inspectorate that confirm the failure of the health and care services to the elderly. Health Minister Höie referred to over-medication of the elderly to avoid anxiety. He also said that people are being held in and not coming out because they have to save on staff resources. So there are institutions that use overmedication deliberately and that don't allow users to get out. The reason for the institutions is that they have too little people. Warm hands require employees who have time and profits — and employees cost money. But what happens in the municipalities now? The revenues of the municipalities, which provide care for the elderly, are failing. The last figure of tax losses is 2.8 billion. kr for the current year, i.e. the offer to the elderly of the country is getting worse, not better. Then my question is: does the Prime Minister agree with the description of the Minister of Health? Can the country's caregiver hope for a little fuss now towards Christmas, so as to compensate for the great failure of incomes to the municipalities, precisely those who want to offer a better offer, so that we do not see what is happening now – that it will be cut and not improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e308	I agree with the description that there are examples in our care for the elderly that are neither worthy, acceptable nor that should be so. I believe that several measures need to be taken to contribute to the fact that there is no such thing. These cases occur not only in poorly advised municipalities, but also in better advised municipalities, because this is also a question of knowledge and competence. It is a question of having enough skilled labour compared to those who do not have training. What kind of knowledge you have is quite crucial to not being able to use drugs and for example. uses activity instead. Therefore, one of the priorities of this government is to raise knowledge among those who work in the care of the elderly. That's why we've increased the money for quality development in care, and that's why we make quality criteria and indicators that we can measure the quality of care for the elderly, because we know that it's not just a question of money, it's also a question of money. It is very important to remember that a poor-advised municipality does not necessarily have poor care for the elderly, or that a high-income municipality necessarily has good care for the elderly. Looking at the supervisory reports, the picture is much more complex. Therefore, it is important to say that quality assurance in the care of the elderly is one of the important things we need to work with in the future. It's about having activity at the bottom too much, for example. in the case of dentures. It has to do with the fact that those who work in the sector are simply learning other ways to stimulate working with older people, rather than using medicine to deal with troubled patients. This is why many glacial stories in Norwegian care for the elderly show that this is achieved, even within narrow budgets. It is also about management – and about money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e322	I understand that Prime Minister Solberg does not want to talk about the income deficit in Norwegian municipalities of 2.8 billion. kr – and it gets faster. I understand that it's easier to talk about these projects a little bit on the page. At the bottom, however, to have a well-functioning care service in Norway, it is entirely dependent on having income for municipalities, so they can have employees. In my own county, Hedmark – to take an example – they have now announced that they will cut 39 places in the care of the elderly. Today, in Bergen's Official Journal, it says: Warsler well-being in two of three municipalities in the West. Now well-being around Norway is being warned about because of failing income, due to tax failure. In 2004, when Erna Solberg was a municipal minister, the tax deficit was compensated for, among other things, The party of progress was so busy with it. Why do you not want to compensate for the loss of income now? If you don't, it's going to go down on the caregivers and the elderly around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e331	There has been a tradition in Norway that when you have increased tax revenue over the course of a year, you don't drag them into Christmas, and so you have also had a tradition that the municipalities, when they have less income, have created a buffer that allows you to balance this over the years. If you want to get away from that principle, you really need to put in place a principle that you also draw the profit in the years you get more tax revenue. This may also be the reason why KS has said quite clearly that they prefer the model that is today, namely that when there is more tax revenue, the municipalities keep it, but then they have to be aware that when tax revenue fails, it will be a little less. So it's like next year's budget contains a solid commitment to the free revenues. When we see the difference between the demographic expenditure and the growth in free income, there is a larger amount available this year than it was in 2011, 2012 and 2013. This means that there is actually room in 2015 to give priority to care for the elderly, as well as the earmarked funds that we have on quality promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e338	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e341	First of all, what the Prime Minister draws from the government's municipal economy is not correct. No year in the previous ageing period has seen lower growth than expected this year, and a major reason for this is the tax failure of municipalities. It's the reality of the day we now have to discuss. It is that there are major challenges in the care of the elderly, there is a huge tax failure in the municipalities, and it is a municipal arrangement on the part of the government that is disproportionate to the challenges and the tax failure. Many suggest that tax revenue is also going to fail until next year, and the government's budget for next year does not take into account either. The key to better care for the elderly — whether it is a will or not — is a better community economy. The question remains whether the government will correct the lack of money due to tax failure and allow municipalities to improve the provision of care, or whether one here will implement principles, as the Prime Minister did in his previous reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e348	It's not a matter of principle, it's a question of how to have the system. Is it the case that tax revenue is maintained when it increases, and therefore also has to deal with a situation where tax revenue is reduced, it has to be taken into account within the local economy as well? But for next year's government budget, there is a higher growth in free income than it was, for example. in 2012. It's a bigger room, because the demographics are smaller. That's why it's a very good community arrangement for next year, which gives room for this kind of bet. Then we have submitted our balancing for treatment in Stortinget, and we have not proposed to compensate for the failure this year, in line with what we have understood that KS has agreed, that it is right to have a system where you keep the gain, but also take the loss those years the loss is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e353	Torgeir Mikalsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e356	This system that the Prime Minister is talking about is no more special than that about a year ago the government chose to cut tolls in a budgetary procedure and spend oil money on it. If you can spend money on this kind of action, it is also possible to imagine that in terms of income that goes to the municipalities, who are responsible for following up the elderly of the country, you can do it that way, so I think it became a little special, to use the Prime Minister's favorite expression. What I agree with the Prime Minister is that in the last ten years there have been many major improvements in Norwegian care for the elderly. Quality is increased, tens of thousands are employed, more competent employees, and many are getting much better help. But we in the government felt that it wasn't enough. Even with rusty investment frameworks, although no municipalities that applied for grants were refused to build, and even with a municipal economy that I think many believe is something that stands after the red-green government, which was raw, we didn't get to the goal. The government is now selecting the same instruments. Can the Prime Minister be sure that the means available to her government will give rise in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e363	The first numbers we're looking at are building in the care of the elderly, is that it's slowed down after the new government came, as opposed to how it was under the red-green government, because we increased the subsidies. What we see is that we've been focusing on quality and content in the care of the elderly in a systematic way. I have great hopes that we will do better than what has been done in the past, because it's important not just to count places, but also what quality we have. I have some amazing experiences in Norwegian care for the elderly by just these engaged people, who have received further training, who have learned how to handle it with demente in order to stimulate them and make sure that they do not need heavy medication, because they have been active enough – they have used the body. One of the major challenges we face in the care of the elderly is that very many of those who are in the institution today are demented, and many of them are physically sprawl and need a different offer than the care of the elderly. We're going to have that transition with all the employees, along with the KS, to make sure that we get an older care of quality and knowledge, and that you get an individual better follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e368	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e371	Patients in Norwegian nursing homes have an average of seven different diagnoses. About 60 pst. of those living in our nursing homes suffer from chronic pain — which has often not been diagnosed or mistreated. The medical treatment in Norwegian hospitals is 1 doctor for 1.3 patients. The medical treatment in nursing homes is 1 doctor for 130 patients. The Medical Association has previously stated that this should be ensured in another way, that we need to get a standard for how many doctors we should have per patient in a nursing home. How are we to ensure that the elderly in our nursing homes who have complex disorders and who have complex needs for care receive the necessary follow-up of doctors in our Norwegian nursing home?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e376	It is important to make sure that we have enough medicine available. For this reason, we have been concerned from the citizen's point of view that more doctors may have to be employed in the care of the elderly, and that they are less based on the care system also in the institutions, because a speciality related to home medicine is important. This is what the government is working on, specializing in working with the elderly, because there are other and more complex disease images. It is important to make it attractive to work in the care of the elderly, and it is important that you then have the knowledge to do just that. Many municipalities that have made changes in recent years have hired more people to work only in hospitals, in the care of the elderly. We think it gives significantly better results than connecting to a regular practitioner, who has less time to follow up patients than an employed doctor in a nursing home wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e384	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e387	Undernourishment and illegal use of coercion have been among the examples NRK has documented in recent days on human rights violations in Norwegian care for the elderly. We both know that this is not the main picture of Norwegian care for the elderly, but we also know that this is the reality of many elderly people in need of care. What we see in Norwegian care for the elderly is that everywhere – from relatives, from employees – there is talk about a lack of time, that there are too few jobs to be able to follow up each one well enough. This is a question of local economy, of course, about our ability to get more people to work when the elderly need it. But I have registered that the government in its comments on NRK's matters has been most concerned with competence. Competence is important, but it's not going to get away from the fact that increased ground crew is crucial. That's not what the government's talking about. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister believes that increased basic staffing is important in Norwegian care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e394	First, I would like to stress that I am pleased with what Audun Lysbakken says that we should not draw a picture of these examples as the main picture of Norwegian care for the elderly, because it is not. It's incredibly important that we don't make people afraid to move into a nursing home and get good follow-up there. The danger in many such major cases is that it contributes to a quality deterioration for the elderly, because they are afraid of what will happen if they need good luck and care. So I think it's important to have a good base crew at everyone's home. But I believe that the question of e.g. illicit use of coercion to the same extent is a question of competence and knowledge, for there are other ways of dealing with up-to-date, active, but perhaps demented patients – who are often subject to some form of coercion – through activity, by using the body during the day. This is one of the important things we work with in terms of quality parameters, and in terms of the quality promise in the future, because there is another group of patients who are in hospital today, than it was in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e401	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e404	In the debate on the throne, the Prime Minister said the following in answer to a question from the representative Syversen: ‘One of the things the government did for the current year was to change the allocation letter to the UDI, which in 2013 confirmed that priority was to be given to sending out long-term children, while in 2014 we said that priority should be given to sending out children, but not to focus on those who were long-term, precisely because we have an agreement.’ The day before, the Council of State said Anundsen in reply to a question from me in the same debate: ‘But no government signals have been sent to give priority to a long-term child in order for a person to send them out more quickly in advance of a regulation.’ And he went on to say, ‘I believe that this would also be an unacceptable act in relation to the contractual relationship that the government has with the Left and Christian People’s Party.’ As both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice in this Chamber stressed that there had been a change in priorities, a change in the letter of assignment, my question to the Prime Minister is: Should these changes mean anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e424	Yes, they would mean something. They were supposed to mean that they no longer, as before, focused on the fact that those of the children who had been here for a long time were to be sent out quickly, but that priority should continue to be given to sending out children. This does not mean that no long-term children would be sent out, but that means that the special focus that it had set up in the past was removed. It was in itself a decision that the government and the Minister of Justice made on their own, but we thought it was a right decision because we were going to have a one-off solution in place and a permanent arrangement and a new regulation in place. I believe that if it turns out that the false priority signals sent out by the Police Directorate have actually led to implementation, it is completely contrary to what has been the government's intentions and the government's steering signals out. There was therefore also good reason why the Minister of Justice yesterday regretted what had happened to Stortinget. I believe that there is good reason why the Directorate of Police and the Ministry of Justice are looking well through the routines they now have, to ensure that the clear and clear political signals sent out actually lead to implementation. Whether the error instructions given by the Police Directorate have been the most governing, or whether the governance dialogue between the Police Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department has been given other governance signals, we do not know until we have actually seen the review that they are now required to provide to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e435	I'm glad the Prime Minister is so ready. What made the Left concerned about yesterday's day was that the Minister of Justice's report was lamented from Stortinget's pulpit – one of the clearest regrets I've seen in this room – the police director talks as if this was just a little reading slip from one of the employees. He said to the evening post yesterday: ‘It looks as if there has been a human error. Some better explanation than that I don't have. Now we're going to go into this thoroughly, and see if it's had any consequences." The police director said several times yesterday as if this was just a minor reading error, this was not something that was going to have any political consequences, and he saw no reason to change anything in practice today as to how he exercised his leadership, given that his superior had to stand and complain about a mistake in a letter of assignment earlier in the day. I haven't seen anyone give such a clear reprimand down the system that has gone so little into a police director. So I wonder if the Prime Minister has any comments on the statements made by the police director after the Minister of Justice had been in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e449	I understand that the police director believes that the other dialogue has made the political signals clear. We've asked him to document that, that's the review they're going to have to do, because we believe that the signals that we give politically through the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate are actually going to go into the outer paragraphs. It's a completely natural management instruction, and it's quite natural that this should happen. Then we'll have to wait and see if there's a need for change in practice. However, practice has been made clear by the Minister of Justice to the Directorate of Police; it is the letter of assignment sent, which is to be followed by all parts of the foreign administration from prompt — to put it that way — yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e454	There will be follow-up questions – first André N. Skkelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e457	As regards the letter of award, which has also been mentioned earlier in this debate, Humlegård replied yesterday: ‘It was clarified that this was important. But it's not just this letter of assignment that we're dealing with. There are several ways to obtain information, and we follow the political leaders who come from the government.’ This is interesting precisely as regards what has been a bit of the debate until now, namely that political decisions are clearly being ignored. I then ask the Prime Minister the following questions: are the consequences of this for asylum-seekers quite clear and have emerged in the past, but will this also have consequences for those who have interpreted these decisions in a way that they should not have been interpreted?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e467	I think that in this situation, it's nice to wait until you get the investigation from the police director on the table, who might also explain his own statements to the media about whether or not there is a record of having followed the political guidance signals given. Before that, I think it would be very unnatural to comment, from the Stockholm pulpit, on the implications of actions taken in the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e473	Helga Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e476	A very central theme after the Gjørv Commission was that it does not keep taking political decisions and giving instructions. And a conclusion on which there was a broad political consensus afterwards was that there is a need to develop the culture of governance and implementation of political decisions. In particular, the Prime Minister himself has made ‘implementation and action’ a very central issue. Then my question is: Does the government have governance with underlying agencies in the foreign field, and can we be absolutely sure that other important issues in the field of justice, such as: on standby, do not miss?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e483	We closely follow developments and follow-up that take place in many fields. We follow closely in the field of preparedness, and we closely follow up on how progress is. I believe that it is an example of poor management when one has not managed to take the political guidance signals that have come to a directorate in writing, and carry them on in the pen. This means that they have to go through their routines – and that's what the Police Directorate and the Ministry of Justice have said they will do – to follow up on just this. But I do not think that on the basis of this case there is any reason to assume that you do not have a good overview or good control over, for example. the emergency questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e492	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e495	It is quite right that the representative of Skei Grande mentioned that the undersigned addressed this matter in the debate on the throne. The Prime Minister then assured me that the government was working on a bomb – I think it was the expression that was used – to get a new regulation in place. Then we are told that we have a police director who, at least, is unable to follow in the political debate that we have had on this in several times this autumn. I think that's an ominous signal. And if it's the case that the other governance dialogue supports the fact that it's business as usual, it's also an ominous signal to the Minister of Justice, because then it's given different signals than what was given in the instructions in this case. But we're waiting for this. My question is, since the Prime Minister now said that she wants this regulation in place before Christmas, we in the Christian People's Party interpret it so that we will have an agreement on this regulation within 14 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e502	Consensus within 14 days requires agreement, and the challenge is then to be sure that we have made the plank, as this, as the representative knows, is a difficult legal area to tackle completely. Then we're going to have assurances that we won't come back in the same situation as last time, when we sent a proposal at the hearing and realized that it was going to be a liberalisation, while it was interpreted by others as actually being a tightening, which was contrary to the intention of all four contractors at that time. It's important that we don't get back into that situation. That's where we're in the final job, to make sure that we've put the right leads that make us get a regulation that combines it with making the best of the children clearer. It must be a liberalisation. At the same time, there should not be a barge that allows anyone who prevents, who does not want to cooperate, to speculate on staying in Norway in the future. We're looking for that balance sheet. We have an intention to figure that out together. If we can find it before Christmas, it will be a good Christmas presage for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e509	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e512	Yes, there are some of the kids who had needed the Christmas press, who aren't going to get it, because the government has opposed putting matters at rest. At the latest in the debate on the throne, the Prime Minister showed the sea of these changes in the letter of assignment as a justification for saying no to the SV’s proposal. We had the numbers that showed that only in September there were 130 long-term children who had been sent out to dangerous countries like Afghanistan. Now we have the truth. The police show that they have not followed up or care about the leads in the letter of assignment. But they do take political signals, said the Minister of Justice yesterday and in Political Quarter today. The political signals he's been sending out in the last few days are that he didn't intend to empty the warehouse, that is, an arrogant and degrading mention of the asylum-seekers. It's probably the way that it's full of it, the mouth runs over it. Those signals, I think, are more than the police director who's picked up. Will the Prime Minister complain about the Minister of Justice's use of words?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e521	I would not use the word ‘storage’ about the fact that there are many children who want a new future in Norway but who do not meet the requirements for protection in Norway or have parents who do not meet these requirements. But I would like to say that it is not the case that the governance dialogue between the Minister of Justice and the Police Directorate, which was also mentioned, contained anything other than the written, clear priority. The question we are getting back is whether the practice has been in line with the political signals of the Police Foreign Unit, in relation to what the police director now says in the media that it has been in line with the guidance signals that have come through the letter of assignment. When we have said that we do not put matters at risk, that means that we should also send out children. It is stated in the guidelines, but a smaller proportion of those sent out today are children than the proportion sent out in the years 2011–2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e526	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e529	‘In the coming years, the government will work to strengthen mental health. It's not good enough today. It has to be easier to get help." Those are wise words – fine dialect – but those are not my words. Those are words from the Prime Minister's first New Year's Eve. In the last few weeks and months, I have – and many others on Stortinget, I think – received a flood of letters and enquiries from patients and relatives that show that unfortunately the reality is different. Many of those who are sickest, who labor the most, experience that the aid within psychiatry is being built down. The government chose earlier this year to bless the closure of the trauma unit in Bodø. Other offers should be in place, said the Minister of Health, but now, when the closure is completed, it turns out that this is not the case. Relatives and former patients doubt the situation. In the wake of the closure in Bodø, the closing of the supply of anxiety and coercive diseases at East Marka in Trondheim and by the Russian and Psychiatric posts at UNN in Tromsø is now under discussion. The reasons for these closure proposals are not professional, they are justified by lack of money. I quote trust-chosen for mental health protection at St. Olav's hospital, which says to NRK: ‘This is happening in the context of a lack of economy to continue to maintain the offer that has had a huge success, far beyond our own region.’ What would the Prime Minister say to seriously ill people and relatives who are now in despair that specialised services in the field of psychiatry are being dropped, contrary to the promises of improvement made by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e548	I think we have a mental health protection that is improving. We're looking at the waiting times. For example, during the first eight months of the year, there has been a greater reduction in waiting times for patients in mental health protection and drug treatment compared to, for example, Somatic. It shows that the priority of drugs and mental health protection, as we do through the Golden Rule, works. Annual work on mental health protection for adults decreased from 2011 to 2013. We hope to see that it goes up according to the priorities we do. There are conversions of the offer. There is no doubt that we need to build up a better outpatient offer. We need to have more resources out. Some of the new, really good follow-up offers are those that give more follow-up at home, set up for good luck. But there has to be a balance between these types of offers. To conclude that there is a reduction because it is conversion and change, I think it is very premature, because there are also many new, good projects, for example. in the case of the Åse patient hotel in Ålesund, the number of patients with severe psychiatric illness who have previously received daily treatment after, for example: Suicide attempts, and now an offer is given where a visiting team from the hospital helps them at home. They tell me myself when I meet them as patients, that this is a much better offer than they've been given before. They get better psychiatric help, more frequent interviews with professionals, than they did before. The switch to a better, more home-based offer will mean re-priorities, where some of the old offers will not be continued. This does not mean that the quality of mental health protection is getting worse. On the contrary, it's normalizing mental problems, being able to be the best in the usual environment, very positive and will probably be able to deliver better treatment results than what we have in the psychiatry today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e559	I think the Prime Minister's announcement that the psychiatry is improving will be very badly welcomed by many of the relatives who now feel that their offer is getting worse. Take, for example: a mother who wrote about the situation on East Marka in Dagbladet on Friday. She writes, "My son finally got help. Now the offer is being put down." It is hardly seen as improvement. I agree with the Prime Minister that, of course, it is not that day-to-day treatment itself is better than day-to-day treatment. In many cases, the new daily services can be an improvement. But what is happening in Tromsø and in Trondheim now is the reduction of highly specialised daily services, among other things. to patients who have combinations of intoxication and mental illness, justified in economic terms, not on the grounds that patients should receive a better offer. Then my question is: does the Prime Minister hear the cry now coming from parts of the country that development is going too far, and will she do anything to stop the closures of the important offers in Trondheim and Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e568	We will always follow up on whether what is one of our most important policy areas, namely raising mental health protection, also being a priority within health businesses, is given priority in the way we build interaction between municipalities and health businesses, but not going in and saying that we should review at the professional level what are the best offers. It is certain that all health businesses would have had both the new and the old, but it may be that the new offers are better, and then we have to say that there is a professional judgement in health companies about what is the best combination for the patient groups they have. We know that if 30 pst. by those admitted to 24-hour care had received help earlier, they had released that accommodation. That's why it's a very clear and clear priority for this government to build up both what's happening in the municipalities, and what's happening out of the hospital, and to think new, where one doesn't move everyone who has mental problems out of their everyday lives, but gives the help in their everyday lives. And I think that'll be easier. It'll be easier for families with mental disorders, because helping the whole family is also very important, and it'll be easier if you're in a normal situation than if you're in an institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e573	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e576	No one disagrees that it is necessary to build up better prevention and early responses and to have better follow-up afterwards. The problem here is that some of the most ill people have to wait too long to get into the hospital, and that they are discharged prematurely, so they get sick again and cleaned up. Here the prime minister talks about the family, and of course it's good for those who are not very ill to be able to work in the everyday situation, but the problem here is that this method pushes the responsibility down on the families, down on the neighborhood, where these patients don't get needed help, because they need much more help than they get today. The SINTEF report, published on 11 November, shows, among other things: at 7 pst. outpatients need a 24-hour period. Every fourth stands without delay, and these are people who get very sick. Will the Prime Minister take account of these professional councils and not just the financial ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e583	I assume that health businesses within the framework we have make professional priorities, and the priority they have that manage resources, is that growth should be greater in the field of mental health protection in the specialist health service than in the field of somatic care. With a budget that actually increases the growth of treatment, health enterprises must have the clear governance parameter. Then is the example I mentioned from Åse in Ålesund. I have also sat and talked to relatives who believe that this was much better than the times they had experienced that Dad disappeared for a few weeks and was gone and then came back again, but where there was a continuous follow-up and the family could be united. There's a lot of new developments going on, and we're getting better quality. As I said in the previous answer, we are going to be very alert and watch out for some of the things that are our most important field of action, namely that mental health protection should be upgraded, but conversions professionally must also be possible within the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e590	The Prime Minister talks a lot about the so-called golden rule. It has been practiced in the manner described by the Prime Minister for a number of years. The only argument she has for not being like that is that the number of employees went down one year. It's turning open the doors. But I want to go back to that prime minister now, because I want to look at how the biggest university hospital in North Norway looks at government spending on Russians and psychiatry. That's where they're going to cut $170 million. kr next year. 70 million. kr of it is correct from 2014, but it is 100 million. kr directly related to the budget. The Director writes open on the website: ‘It is given political leadership that psychiatry and intoxication should grow more than the somatic part. A slightly smaller reduction in drug use and psychiatry is therefore planned than in somatic settings. [[2.4 %]] [[2,6 %]] What does the Prime Minister think of such a way of interpreting the golden rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e602	It is that this budget increases activities, so it increases patient treatment, and there is room to increase. How the increases are distributed between different enterprises within the different regional enterprises is the assessment of regional health enterprises. If they choose to spend more of their money on growth, other than a single hospital, it is an assessment that is made in regional health companies as long as we still have that governance model. We know that we have room to give priority to specialist health care, mental health protection, with the budget set before next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e607	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e610	Psychologically ill people who also have a drug problem do not get the help they need in Kommune-Norway. When the specialist health service sends them back to the municipalities, the municipalities often have neither resources, competence nor a suitable home to receive the individual. Establishing housing containers is not a good solution. In that case, patients are actually isolated in their own community. The Christian People's Party is concerned that there should not be these vulnerable groups that become balancing posts in the municipal budgets. Therefore, the Christian People's Party would have liked to have earmarked these means. The government has granted 400 million. D to lowthreshold drug services and psychiatry through the free resources of municipalities. That is good, but how will the government ensure that the offer to this patient group is improved through the efforts that are now in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e617	I believe that the wit is fairly evenly distributed. I believe that our municipal politicians have a warm heart and a desire to give priority to the most disadvantaged. That means I'm not the first one to applaud all the earmarked schemes, because it costs in terms of bureaucracy, control and follow-up related to it. Then we chose not to include the money into the care of the municipalities. We took them out again when this government was established, because we know that the loads are a little skewed between the municipalities, and to ensure some of the measures. But we need to have a balance between some of the broad measures between which the municipalities must make the right priorities, and some of the specialised actions that we have within the earmarked grants. We know that in many municipalities you have to struggle to get housing, you have to struggle to get good enough follow-up. But to deprive them of responsibility for it will be to go wrong. In fact, we have to believe that even someone who has mental illness and psychosis problems at the same time should be part of our usual reality and not be housed in an institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e625	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e628	The centre party has been involved in a change in psychiatry towards more outpatient treatment, and local treatment has agreed on professional and political issues. But now there have been numerous signals that this conversion is going too far, that it is going too fast, and that it is going beyond them in particular with the most serious mental disorders. They're going between two chairs. One is that just before you have built up new offers that can be put into service, you simply build down daily spaces. And the second is that some of these people have so severe mental disorders that they don't have the same benefit of outpatient treatment, they need 24 hours. Special item 4 in the East is an example of this — a sad example. With the commitment that the Prime Minister has invested in psychiatry, the government cannot just push health businesses in front of it. They must also take political responsibility. My question is – still: What will the government do to prevent this closure of the offer in Tromsø and Trondheim? It's urgent. The east is closed from Christmas if nothing happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e635	I think it's important to notice that e.g. Health Mid-Norway is one of the enterprises that now have a clear drop in waiting time to get offers related to the specialist health services for drug and mental health and those areas. This must indicate that they have actually built up a better offer, and that there are offers available to patients, when one sees that there is a clear reduction in waiting time, at least into the second quarter of this year. I do not think that the government should go in and decide on individual proposals and individual cases and institutions within a health company. We have to make the general demands that they have a good, varied offer, and then it has to be a professional question what you think is the most important thing in the varied offer they have. A detailed management of whether to maintain a single department, a single measure, will make the whole management system totally impossible. But the guiding signs of prioritising mental health and drug abuse are very clear from this government towards specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e642	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e645	The left and government parties share the objective of increasing treatment for those who are struggling with alcohol and mental disorders. Then the representative points to something important. Within rear-view protection e.g. it is used today approx. 4 B.C.E. kr in the specialised hospital unit, while the municipalities have approx. 1 billion. kr. It is clear that there is a severe imbalance, and it is challenging when a reduction of specialised institutions takes place while the municipalities are unable to and do not have the capacity to build up in parallel. My own municipality, Gjøvik, now promoted a municipal psychologist position and got zero applicants. It says something about how vulnerable municipalities are in terms of coordinating and building up and receiving patients when they do not have housing, do not have competence in care services to handle this. So that's the rate we're also talking about here in the conversion phase, and I'm going to challenge the prime minister on: how can we do something about that balance ratio?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e650	It is important to take into account the nature of the services offered in municipalities when printing patients to other types of services. I think some of the best solutions we see are the collaboration solutions between municipalities and the specialist health service. An example is the child and youth psychiatry in South Africa, where there is a very good cooperation project between several municipalities, where Mandal has been in charge of a low-threshold admission team, and where resources from the specialist health service are used in primary health services, precisely because you need special skills, and the smallest municipalities might not have it. So they use 50 pst. of their resources in early work, in prevention, in having individual conversations — and the good cooperation solutions have been found. I think it's a very good model of how to work with several cooperation models between the state and the municipality. I think it is a better model than an interaction reform that was about sending payment giroes between municipalities and counties, that, on the contrary, these cooperation platforms are being created where you look a little beyond the administrative level limit and see the patient instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e655	We move on to the next, and last, main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e658	We now see a dramatic situation related to the supplier industry. The worst hit is Rogaland, West Agder and the Prime Minister's home country, Hordaland. To date, some 7 000 employees have lost their jobs, and only 170 have been transferred. All of this indicates that this will affect many more along the coast in the future. The background to the situation is inter alia: falling oil prices, fewer contracts, less maintenance, less oil service and fewer modifications on the Norwegian base. This directly affects the supplier industry and creates unrest throughout the value chain. Politically, the situation requires an active industrial policy — a counter-cyclical policy, which can help to maintain important competences in both the short and long term, which can in turn contribute to value creation in the future. Does the government have a plan to meet this situation with measures that can be targeted and good in order to meet this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e669	In a situation where the oil price has fallen and where 2013 is likely to be the top year for Norwegian oil and gas production in terms of investment, it is clear that it is challenging for the supply industry and many jobs. At the same time, we know that the case we see this year, will not necessarily repeat itself in the future. It'll surface out at a slightly lower level than what we saw in the peaks of 2012 and 2013. This will happen, among other things: because of the Johan Sverdrup field. The question of what the reactions will then be to a long-term lower oil price, if that happens, is open. We will be very alert to see if there are new measures that should be taken to help us to have a good and more stable activity. However, making projects that are not profitable with a low oil price, profitable, requires above all that industry also contributes to a lower level of development costs. But we'll always follow that development and see the effects of it. The important thing we do is what we do in our state budget, which strengthens the competitiveness of the Norwegian economy as a whole, and which facilitates the transition to new and other jobs. With regard to the jobs that are now disappearing, we do not yet see that reflected in high unemployment rates. For the time being, the redundant labour force is being sucked up. It is not certain that it happens beyond spring, but it is currently being sucked up by others who need that labour force. This is, of course, highly skilled labour, so if we have good speed on other parts of the Norwegian economy, ensure that we have framework conditions that will allow us to invest in Norwegian companies, ensure that our investment in research, development, innovation and infrastructure is good, it will contribute to a business life that will need this highly skilled workforce, and reduce the impact of lower oil activity in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e680	The Prime Minister says that there is no plan to meet this now. But I want to point out the financial crisis that struck us in 2007. Then the Stoltenberg government was very clear about bringing action packages that were targeted, and that made an important contribution to keeping the wheels going. Among other things, the yard package was such a concrete measure. I have previously challenged about the law on permitting. LO and NHO are very clear that it is one of the measures that you have to put into the situation you are in, but the Prime Minister has told you to wait and see. How many people have to be told before it's time to do something is uncertain yet. But what about doing something about the warranty side to get more modification and maintenance jobs? Is there a measure with which it could have been appropriate to contribute, or is there no plan to do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e689	I have just said that we are going to follow this closely and look at various measures to help – and ensure – that the lower oil price and the lower oil activity do not create dramatic changes. Comparing the situation we now have, with the financial crisis, I seem to be comparing sizes that are not comparable at all. Although many have been dismissed, this is fortunately so attractive labour force that many of them have been employed so far in other jobs. One of the challenges of permitting legislation is that if people stay in a business and another enterprise lacks labour, it may be that if we make it beneficial to stay in the non-manageable enterprise, the other enterprise will not be able to carry out assignments in Norway, but have to outsource parts of them abroad. As a result, Norwegian jobs are weakened in total. That's why it's important to wait and see if we actually get real effects with higher unemployment, which means that there are not only changes between companies, but that what happens actually also has a total impact on the economy. Actually, we haven't seen that far. This may happen, and then the government is prepared to act, but we must now ensure that we do not move more jobs out of Norway by not getting them because of rigid leave rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e699	It opens up one follow-up question – from Anna Ljunggren.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e702	As the Prime Minister also says, the reality of changes in the legislation on permitting is that the industry will experience an increase in activity in the future. They would then need the employees they are now resigning, who, if the government had changed the law of the permit, could have been in the company and contributed to the increase that we see. The Prime Minister mentions that it is important that less profitable projects become more profitable and standardisation of contracts is referred to as an instrument that can help reduce the cost level of Norwegian capital. It is also important to maintain a high level of activity and take advantage of the current situation, unless pressure is exerted. As the Prime Minister hears, the Labour Party is concerned that something is being done when we see the situation that is now. Every day, employees are affected by cancellations and lay-offs. What more than following the situation carefully will the government do?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e711	As early as February, I had a meeting with the whole industry and the interest groups because we predicted that this was a problem. The competitiveness of the Norwegian supplier industry in relation to the oil industry was poor. It meant that it was necessary to do something. The sum of that meeting, with both the oil companies and the supplier industry, was that there was a need to do something about issues such as standardisation, which help to reduce the cost of development, and that the industry itself has to do so. It's the oil companies that ask what models you should have for development, it's not the public authorities that run it. Then we have to remember that we have been through a situation just in the West where there has been a shortage of labour, where companies have had to hire large amounts of labour from other countries because trade union workers or others have not been able to drive up in Norway. We've been missing engineers, so the missions have gone abroad. Before we see that the change that is taking place now is not just a change of place of work with another, but actually means greater unemployment, we can reinforce the challenges by preventing people from switching from those who do not have a job to those who have a job today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e720	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e732	The President will inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e739	‘In its response to the Patient Rights Directive, the Medical Association writes that they are concerned about the possible consequences of the proposal for the development of antibiotic resistance in Norway. The medical association lacks an assessment of the health and economic consequences of the proposal and indicates that the annual cost of antibiotic resistance in the EU is well over EUR 1.5 billion, and that 25 000 people lose their lives every year due to non-active antibiotics. Will the Council of State inform the Storting about these consequences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e746	We travel more and more, both on vacation and for medical treatment. This is a development that we have to deal with. It is neither desirable nor possible to stop Norwegians who want to travel abroad on vacation or for treatment. The representative refers to the Medical Association’s consultation response to the government’s proposal for the implementation of the Patient Rights Directive. This government wants to give patients increased options. Therefore, it is not proposed to limit patients’ ability to receive reimbursement of healthcare costs in other EEA countries with a requirement for prior authorisation. There is a whole difference between this government’s proposal and the previous government’s proposal to introduce the Patient Rights Directive, which Norway is obliged to introduce. While the previous government's proposal would mean that patients would automatically have been refused and would have had to cover costs that they would otherwise have had the right to do, just because they had not applied in advance, one will have the opportunity to apply afterwards with this government's proposal. But the criteria are exactly the same. For a small country like Norway, it is important, in my view, to have international cooperation on patient treatment. In conditions where there is a limited professional environment in Norway, it will be of great importance for a patient to have the possibility of receiving medical care in other European countries. In Sweden, patients have been free to travel to other EEA countries for hospital treatment since 2005. Experience shows that there are a low number of patients who choose to leave, and many of these travel to neighbouring countries. It is true that there is a slightly higher risk of infection in some EEA countries. Resistant bacteria occur more frequently in most countries than in Norway, and it requires the vigilance of health professionals and good hygiene procedures in our hospitals, regardless of whether the patient has left and received treatment within the EEA territory or outside. The challenges associated with antibiotic resistant bacteria are complex. More travel activities in general lead to major challenges. In addition, many other factors have an impact on the development of antibiotic resistance, such as: the use of antibiotics in patient treatment, including in Norway, and the production of food. Antibiotic resistance is not a problem Norway can solve alone; it is a common international responsibility. Let's do that, for example. actively supporting the development of the World Health Organisation’s Global Action Plan against antibiotic resistance and through the United States Global Health Security Agenda initiative and in Nordic cooperation. The Ministry of Health and Health has just partly financed an international meeting organised by the Institute of Public Health for the World Health Organisation, and in January this year we earmarked 4.6 million. kr for research on antibiotic resistance through the Joint Programme of the Joint Programme on Antimicrobial Resistance. The Institute of Public Health has also increased by 2.6 million. kr for this work, and that is the work I do, except for the fight against ebola in West Africa, which is most important in my international work as Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e766	I thank you for the answer to why the government is introducing the Patient Rights Directive. I asked the government to follow up on what the Medical Association is asking for, simply to get an assessment of the health and economic consequences of introducing the directive. It is not just the Medical Association that expresses concern at the increase in patient mobility that will mean the development of antibiotic resistance in Norway. The Institute of Public Health also demands that it be protected against infectious diseases in the interests of patient safety and the general public. The Health Directorate is asking for it in its opinion — they are asking for specific measures to prevent the development of antibiotic resistance due to increased patient mobility as a consequence of the Directive. So I would like to ask again: would the government come up with an assessment of the health consequences of the implementation of the directive, if it were introduced in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e773	It is affected in the proposition that the Storting has to deal with. With regard to the introduction of the Patient Directive, it is a directive which was also clear to the previous government in Stortinget that one should introduce. So it's not a question of whether we're going to introduce the Patient Directive or one. The question is whether Norwegian patients after they have received treatment abroad, which they have the right to do, will be met with a bureaucratic rule and have a refusal to cover the costs because they were so unfortunate not to apply in advance, or not. The red-green government’s proposal would put bureaucratic links in the wheels to ensure that Norwegian patients were granted the rights they have as citizens of a country that is a member of the EEA. In the case of patients and people travelling more, as they both get holidays and experiences and receive treatment, with the consequences it has in relation to antibiotic resistance, the government has received an expert recommendation in the fight against antibiotic resistance that we are now working to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e782	The government sent out a hearing proposal to change what was adopted on the Patient Rights Directive in Stortinget. The Public Health Institute had a hearing statement, where they said: ‘The safety of patients in medical treatment in hospitals abroad and the protection of the population against infectious diseases are serious grounds for requiring prior approval of reimbursement of costs of hospital treatment outside Norway.’ Nevertheless, the government chooses to bring a case for the Storting where they propose that this pre-approval be removed. What I'm responding to is, first of all, that you don't listen to the hearing statements. The second is that one brings up a case for Stortinget before the hearing period is over. The hearing period expired on 1 October, the case of the Patient Rights Directive was in the State Council on 12 September, 14 days before the hearing period expired. Why doesn't the government belong to the hearing agencies? And how can a person show so little respect for the professional objections that one does not wait for the one time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e794	There's a difference between hearing and doing what others say at any time. If you were to have rounds of hearings where you were to do what everyone who says would think, it would not have been possible to implement policies, because it often cracks in different directions. So there's a difference – and listen, we do. But we also look at the experiences of other countries. Sweden has had this scheme since 2005, and the type of experience that the representative Toppe is trying to create is not experience when it has been tested in practice. I have more faith in trying out policies in practice than in creating scare pictures in advance based on political motives other than what lies in this matter, namely to create a simple, unbureaucratic system for Norwegian patients who want to receive treatment in other countries, and to avoid that one comes in the hopeless situation when one comes home and has the right initially to recover his costs, that one experiences a bureaucratic response: unfortunately, you do not get to cover the costs, because you forgot to apply in advance, which are the consequences of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV's policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e805	‘The civil officer revealed that prisoners on security cells were routinely dressed naked. The Progress Party representative Tybring-Gjedde said that the policy of the Progress Party was to give priority to the victims over the security cell prisoners. Should the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights be broken, it is the policy of the Progress Party that the standard in Norwegian prisons should be reduced to a foreign standard, where human rights do not have equal place, and does the Council agree that priority should be given to the victims?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e812	I would like to thank you for this wonderful question and allow me to answer the following: It is important for me to point out that questions that I answer in the Questionnaire are answered by the Council of State on behalf of the government. The government is concerned that Norway is complying with its human rights obligations in general, of course also in criminal matters. The question raised by the representative on the standard reduction to ‘foreign standards, where human rights do not have the same place’, I find it difficult to comment, because the standard in foreign prisons varies greatly from country to country, and human rights have different places in different systems of countries. Nor is it clear from the question what the questioner is really thinking about. The standard in Norwegian prisons is also very different, but it is of course such that human rights should be properly respected. As the representative is familiar with, a separate unit was established at the Civil Ombudsman’s office for, among others. follow-up to the treatment of persons deprived of freedom following the ratification by Norway of the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Torture, OPCAT. This is a very important task, as an independent follow-up to the management and treatment of persons in a potentially vulnerable situation. A visit was carried out by this unit at Tromsø Prison in the 10th–12th century. September, and a safety cell-use practice was identified after the visit, which they consider to be unfortunate. The report of this visit is for treatment in criminal justice. The government is committed to securing citizens against crime and has made a clear commitment in the 2015 draft budget to the whole chain of criminal proceedings. In addition, prevention is a high priority. Persons who are imprisoned after the sentence have, under human rights – and under Norwegian law – rights to be protected under acquittal. Of course, this also applies to people who are mentally ill. I work closely with the Minister of Health and Welfare to ensure that the offers made to prisoners who are suffering from mental illness or drug dependence are more than currently to be seen in the context after an end of their term of office, in order to improve the link between the offer of compensation and the offer of compensation. There has been a year-long discussion between the two departments, something the Minister of Health and I are now finding solutions to. The government is very concerned about ensuring the victims of crime better than today. This is why we are working on several measures to strengthen victim care and the provision of victims of crime. Among other things, we consider a new compensation scheme, we are going to investigate a separate competence centre for victims and relatives, and we are better coordinating resource use between municipalities and the police and ensuring better follow-up of victims through criminal proceedings – to mention something.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e829	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice is so clear. If he's wondering about my questions, it might be just as important to reflect a little bit on the points of the Progress Party's policy, because this case has two implications. One is the content, the other is the crack in the Progress Party. Is the Progress Party a big progress party and a government promotion party? Back to the contents. Tybring-Gjedde is not the only one who has commented on the policy of the Advance Party in this field. Per Sandberg, Vice President, pronounced in 2013: ‘From the criminal to the offender shall be transferred for compensation in the home Member State, the person shall zone in a separate foreign prison with reduced standards. Of course, no daily allowance, and with a minimum of social benefits.’ The progress party Ulf Leirstein, a judicial spokesman, said the same thing on Twitter in January: reduced offers, reduced content and removed daily allowances. The Minister of Justice is now planning to establish his own prison abroad. Can the Minister of Justice guarantee that this will not be a sneaking-in of reduced standards and that the content and rights of Norwegian judges will not be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e845	For foreign prisons, there is a foreign prison in Norway today, where there is a completely different offer to prisoners than in other prisons. It works very well. The government is considering further developing this scheme. We have looked at different ways to assess day-to-day arrangements and practical arrangements in this respect. But it is also important here that one is bound by the principles of non-discrimination of human rights. In the case of a possible prison in the Netherlands, there is a scheme in which Dutch prisons are to act as a department under a Norwegian prison, where the Norwegian Penal Code will apply to the same extent as if there was a prison located in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e852	It was joyous. Then I can record that the Progress Party at Stortinget has not been able to get through to the Minister to reduce prison content. The second question I have, as a follow-up to this, is that our government was convicted of human rights violations when it came to the use of smooth cells. The majority dealt with a matter on this in June, promoted by the Left. A joint judicial committee expressed concerns about the situation and called for improvements. The Labour Party and the Centre would have taken immediate action, the majority as soon as possible. The budget for 2015 would be the natural place to talk about this and show what the Minister of Justice would actually do. That's not what the minister used. It is almost not mentioned in the budget. Implementation seems to be reaching only to order another plan. 50 million. kr extra is reserved for maintenance. Some of the criticism is about the challenge itself. Has the Minister given instructions that some of these funds should be used to repair the smooth cells, and can he guarantee that the number of fractures will have decreased by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e861	First of all, I have to say that the Progress Party's fraction has thus been implemented in order to ensure that there is a different content in the offer to prisoners as foreign prison zones than to prisoners who are not foreign prison zones. The prisoners of the foreign prison are those who are to be returned after imprisonment, and it is natural that they have different contents in the prison from those of other prisoners. When it comes to the issue of maintenance, it's 50 million. kr the representative Henriksen refers to exceptional maintenance. In addition, it's 80 million. kr for regular maintenance. That means we're betting on exceptional maintenance where we intend to make sure that we don't put down spaces. Because the previous government did not prioritize maintenance of Norwegian prisons, we have a maintenance kit that is gigantic. If we hadn't used this 50 million. kr, we had to reduce the capacity of prisons in 2015. That's what this money is meant to be used for. In the case of smooth cells, at least I can say that the Riksadvokat has created new guidelines for the use of smooth cells, which hopefully makes the situation better now than it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e874	«The NRK recently conducted an interview with a young couple from Kåfjord in Troms who have established themselves as goat farmers with a new house and modern operating building. New geological surveys have shown that the mountains around the farm are rhazardous and that the family must thus move. According to NVE, 80 pst. compensation for the costs of moving the dwelling, but nothing for moving the poultry. Will the Council of State amend the legislation so that the work of the family and the home of the goats are also covered by the migration aid scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e881	The NVE assistance scheme for flood and step protection basically includes physical protection measures against natural damage such as flooding and slippage. The framework for the aid scheme is laid down in the annual budgetary procedures of the Stortinget. In line with the flood and gliding news, which was presented by the Red-Green Government in the previous period, it is necessary to rank and prioritize between the projects. Security measures must have greater socio-economic benefits than the costs of their implementation. Then you take the measures that are most useful, first. It is a principle that has had a very broad uprising, a unanimous uprising, well, in Stortinget – both when today's government parties were in opposition, and now, I have the impression of. This means that NVEs make priorities in relation to these means, and there are cases of high risk of damage of high values and, in particular, of risk to life and health that are prioritised. The NVE may not have the resources or the capacity to meet all the needs for action, but I believe – and so it has had broad support in the Stortinget in the past – that today's system represents what can be called a reasonable regulatory framework. Demolition and relocation of hazardous dwellings may receive funding from the NVE in exceptional cases. This would be disproportionately costly when implementing other security measures compared to the removal of dwellings, or when floods and strides present a special risk of loss of human life. This is – fortunately, I think we get to say – only in a few cases in Norway. There have been a few cases as long as the scheme has existed, and the NVE may have to continue to work on developing this scheme, based on their experience. In the case of the case in Kåfjord, on which the representative is based, the NVE first has to deal with the complaint submitted, and it can then come to the Ministry of Oil and Energy for final decision. Therefore, it is not natural that I comment on this matter now, I must be able to decide at a later stage on the content of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e892	I thank you for your answer. Now it's like the NVE has blacked both this young couple and the five others with floorhouses to move, it's just one operating building. We've seen earlier this year a farm with an operational building located below Mount Man in Rauma, which will probably also come under such arrangements. The NVE has replied that it will not pay for any additional security measures that will allow residents to live there. They recommend moving and believe that it will be the only right thing. The NVE has also said that you can see that the bunkhouses are to be supported, but the subsidy schemes do not cover operating buildings. I believe that they have done so before, even after the flood and escape notification was submitted. So I wonder, have there been any signs from the ministry that operating buildings should not be covered by the grant schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e899	What the Storting has unanimously agreed to is the principle that matters where the risk of damage to high values or – and of course above all – life and health are the most important are the issues to be given priority. Although the extent of the apartment building, or dwelling house more generally, which is in such a situation that there is a high risk of life and health in floods and strides, is limited, the overall extent of the delay in securing floods and escapes is large. I therefore believe that what the Stortinget has agreed to, namely, prioritizing life and health first and foremost, but also great material values, is a right priority, and that is what the administration has been dealing with after the Stortinget dealt with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e904	Thanks for the answer again. I think that in this case and in other cases the place of residence of a large livestock, which is also life, is part of the priorities that have to be taken in. After all, it would be pointless for farmers to move the house and not the poultry, because then you simply won't be able to maintain your work. It would also be dangerous to live in a poultry that is in the rhinoceros region. As you know, farmers are many hours per day 365 days per year in this poultry. I hope the Council of State can see that getting support for the relocation of operational buildings is actually also about life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e909	Let me show that I have a great understanding that it is a great advantage that the apartment building and the operating building are in some reasonable proximity to each other. Then I want to say that it is the NVE that has to make these kinds of priorities, but I am fully behind the way of prioritizing as the Stortinget has intended that one should base one on the work of the NVE, namely that it is to protect great material values and, above all, life and health that must be prioritised. It is a principle that has had a broad disintegration in Stortinget, and which I believe is a reason to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e918	The question is: ‘The extraction of petroleum in Lofoten, Vestreålen and Senja could start around 2040 if the area is opened after the 2017 elections. According to a report presented at the November conference in Narvik, prepared for Norwegian oil and gas by Rystad Energy. With today's emission level, the world will already have used up large parts of the remaining carbon budget in 2040. Should not the Council of State already state that oil and gas extraction in these areas is not relevant?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e927	Oil and gas will continue to cover a central part of the world's energy use for decades to come, including in 2040. Energy use will grow significantly in the period up to 2040, among others. due to population growth and a desired development of wealth. This applies in all the scenarios drawn up by the International Energy Agency, the IEA, also for the two-degree scenario. So in these projections, the world will have a significant demand for petroleum resources, so I believe that the starting point for the representative Hansson does not necessarily represent a correct picture. The major problem for the climate is the strong growth in coal that is burned without CO2 management. Replacing coal use with gas is a rapid and effective measure to limit fossil energy emissions. Otherwise, I also believe that the premise of the question is wrong. The launch of the opening process for the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja will enable production to start much earlier than the Hansson representative’s question. It took, for example, only 13 years from the opening of deep water areas in the Norwegian Sea until the production of Worm Lange. I believe that this time horizon is highly relevant also to the sea areas outside the Western Sea, Senja and Lofoten. So regardless of when production starts, the maritime activity associated with oil and gas exploration will give significant ring-effects in this region already many years before the activity and production actually start up, which we, for example, are. already sees in the Churches in connection with the resources in the Barents Sea south-east, which have not yet been produced and will not do so for many years. Then I want to give the representative Hansson right at one point: the decisions taken today, or not taken, will affect the activity on the base in 5 years, 10 years and 50 years. That's why it's important, as the government does, to pursue an active oil policy to facilitate that we can continue to produce oil and gas in the decades ahead. So it's important to remember when discussing these kinds of questions, that it's not that new resources will necessarily increase oil production. On the contrary, today we produce less than half as much oil as we did in the record year 2001. Even with the new expansions that are now underway, it will be about preventing a fall in energy production on Norwegian soil. It is not about increasing the production of oil and gas on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e945	I would like to remind the Council of State that it is the total emissions over time that play a role in the development of the climate, so it is a poor comfort that oil production will not be increased for years to come. The problem is that it is passed on, from a climate perspective. But it is also true that one of the most important pieces of Norwegian environmental management is the overall marine management plans, and the Norwegian Sea plan, including the areas around Jan Mayen, was last updated in 2009. According to established practice, it was to be updated again earlier this year. The central part of this is, among other things, the question of the edge of the ice. There is a short month left in 2014, and the update has not arrived. Nevertheless, the government has announced that 23rd concession rounds will be completed just over the new year. Can the Council of State today assure the Government that the finalisation of the 23rd concession round is suspended until the management plan is up to date, as it should, in order to ensure that the decision on the areas to be opened is taken on an up-to-date, professional basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e952	I can confirm that the world needs a lot of energy. I remind the representative Hansson – as we are both familiar with – that coal cultivation is increasing every year that goes on. The extent of carbon capture and storage is minimal, which is something I have the impression that we have a common interest in working for it to become more widespread. As for the 23rd concession round, which is my constitutional responsibility, there are mainly resources in the Barents Sea south-east, areas mentioned in the Barents Sea Management Plan, not in the Norwegian Sea. As for the areas outside of Jan Mayen, I think the representative Hansson is fully aware that in the agreement between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party, our cooperation parties, it is clearly stated that there will not be any activity going on outside of Jan Mayen during the current growing-up period. But Jan Mayen is in the Norwegian Sea, and the Barents Sea is south-east, for natural reasons, as the name suggests, in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e961	In this context, the follow-up question of the leadership of the State Council sees that the management plan for the Barents Sea will have to be completed by the 23rd concession round, giving rise to the need for new knowledge in a situation where environmental conditions change very rapidly in the north due to climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e966	I think it's worth remembering that the overall picture of activity in general in the Barents Sea is that the Barents Sea is a robust sea area, and that there has been significant commercial activity there for over 100 years. It is true that during the previous period the Storting dealt with both the management plan for the Barents Sea and the Barents Sea opening message south-east. Of course, the frames the Storting has laid for this type of activity will be followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e973	Then there's case no. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-03.ana.ud105e986	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone ask for a word before meeting? - The meeting's been cancelled.
