ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e49	The representatives Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Mazyar Keshvari, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Bjørn Lødemel and Kenneth Svendsen on leave from 14 October to 16 October – all to participate in the 131st session of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva of the representative of Torgeir Micasen on care leave from 14 October to 27 October These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget from 14 October to 16 October. Other alternates of the Nordland County, Greta Johanne Solfall, have requested an exemption from meeting in Stortinget on Thursday 16 October – both for welfare reasons under the leave of the representative Kenneth Svendsen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For Akershus County: Are Health 14-16. October For Buskerud County: Laila Gustavsen 14-22. October For Nordland County: Greta Johanne Solfall 14-15. October and Tom Cato Karlsen 16 October For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Bjørn Erik Hollevik 14-16. October
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e120	Are Health, Laila Gustavsen, Greta Johanne Solfall and Bjørn Erik Hollevik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e139	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e146	Today, we are going to adopt a historic change in the Code of Protection and the Law on Home Security. These laws are currently to be adapted to an equal rights and obligations of women and men to take part in the defence of Norway. Today, we are going to extend the duty of protection to all citizens regardless of gender. This is a brand day in Norwegian defence history. There has been a brief process within the Committee concerning the examination of this matter. There is a great deal of consensus about the changes in the law that are needed in order for us now to have a real general obligation to protect. I would like to thank the Committee on the Clean Process. The most important task of a State is to protect its citizens. The protection obligation constitutes the pillar of Norway’s defence, and the Constitution establishes the principle of general protection. This provision has always been gender neutral and, in its wording, imposes a general duty of protection on all citizens. However, until today, the Protection Act has indicated that the guardian is a Norwegian male citizen aged between 19 and 44. Initial services for women have been voluntary until today. A better gender balance not only increases diversity, but also reflects Norway’s social values. Norway is now becoming a precursor country. We will be the first country in NATO to give women and men equal rights and obligations to protect their country. It is especially for me to stand here today as the case-rapporteur for this important and historic matter. Last year I was one of many Right-wing members who contributed to the Right-wing National Assembly voting for the introduction of a general duty of protection for women equal to men. In June last year, the Stortinget decided to impose protective obligations on women. Today, we are completing that decision. Ten years before there was a female session proposed by the Defense Chief Sigurd Frisvold. It was then described as spectacular and radical changes. I was a major in the army when the proposal came forward, and I stood up in the locals. I warmly welcomed the new scheme and said: Women often represent a different type of problem solution than men. We have other resources and other ways to solve things. Many women are good, goal-conscious and competent and focused leaders. It was nice to come up with this paper again – and my views have not changed. I am proud that women with today's amendment will now have the right and duty to participate in the defence of Norway. The number to be implemented for the first time is a political assessment of security needs and resources, not an assessment of whether it is women or men who are going to take that job. There is a technical need for authorities to choose the best, based on qualifications and skills. There are still tasks in the defense that involve extreme demands to master, go far and carry heavy. For this, you recruit the most suitable ones. In parallel, it is tasks that impose extreme response and simultaneous capacity requirements. For this, you also recruit the most suitable, regardless of gender. For me, this is about choosing the most suitable and fit for the challenging and demanding tasks of the defense. It is important that we also on the personnel side have the best starting point for the defence to continue and develop its operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e161	Let me first give commendation to the President-in-Office for a very tidy work. Then I have to say that it is gratifying that a very large majority in this Chamber today will support the proposal to amend the protective duty law so that the general duty of protection is changed to include both sexes. That means girls and boys get the same rights and the same obligations. But that also means, as the rapporteur said, that the scope of competence is broadened, and that the defence can recruit the most suitable and the most motivated of young people. Today’s amendment of the law means that women are given real access to Norway’s last human bastion, where an overwhelming majority are still men. Similar Norway is very low in European statistics for women in defence. We really can't live with that. In both the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and in other international assemblies, I have been quite disappointed to discover that the proportion of girls who serve or are employed in the Norwegian defence is, statistically, in fact in the lower half of both Europe and NATO. For colleagues from other countries this is quite incomprehensible because it rhymes very poorly with our image as a country with great female participation, a country where high female employment is seen as a major cause of our growth, value creation and prosperity. The low proportion of women in our defense is also breaking our work on gender roles, how we have been working on the role of girls and boys for decades, part of the values on which the Norwegian model of society is based, of which both we and the outside world are concerned. Defence must also reflect the values of society, the values that they must defend, including equality, equalisation, gender roles and democracy. Girls in Defense can also dampen an old macho culture, a culture well described by Kristin Mile and Mona Hansen-Asp: ‘The human role exposed in the Defence rhymes poorly with the expectations of society, otherwise, towards modern, equal men.’ Then I would like to add that we actually have obligations in relation to UN Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. The resolution deals with four important areas: one is violence against women. The second is that when peace is built, women are to be part of it. The third is that women should be in forums and in political bodies where safety policy decisions are taken. The fourth, not least — the resolution also asks the Member States to bring women into the national defences of the countries, among others. because in UN missions and other international operations only female commands can occasionally communicate with women. We've seen this in refugee camps, and we've seen it in Afghanistan. Higher women's share is also a means of delivering better quality, and I want to emphasise that very strongly. When the Defence can choose equally between girls and boys with protective obligations, we will be much better able to ensure the necessary and relevant competences. The defence shall be a timely, relevant and competent social protector. Gender-neutral protection obligations will increase the diversity of the level of protection obligations and, as the Committee says, ‘contribute to strengthening the duty of protection as a social institution by making it general and representative of the whole population’. Then I would like to encourage the Council of State to provide the framework conditions and the necessary changes to make it possible to be a woman in defence – it is also a very important debate – so that we keep those who enter and that they do not end. There have been few counter-arguments against female protection obligations in recent years, and several political parties, including the Labour Party, have taken unanimous decisions on female protection. Some people have sometimes said that there's not even room for all the boys, and then at least we don't need girls. No good, no good. Would anyone use that argument when it comes to corporate directors, that there are so many men who want to enter that we don't need women? Nope. So congratulations on the day of all the girls and on the defense, and now let's get a timely and even better and more competent defense!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e185	Paragraph 109 of the Constitution states that: «Every citizen of the State is generally equally obliged for a certain period of time to protect his country of origin, without regard to birth or wealth.» The Protective Obligations Act adopted by the Stortinget today ensures compliance with the Constitution. Now, of course, it can be discussed whether the owners in 1814 had both women and men in mind on the basis of which sex they represented themselves, but at least that's what we adopt today, according to the Basic Law, and it took us 200 years. I guess we're not as far ahead as the owners were, but 200 years later we're at least there. In any case, the Progress Party concludes wholeheartedly on the Constitution § 109 and the proposal for gender-neutral protection law. General protection obligations, women's protection obligations, are positive for society, positive for defence, positive for women, positive for men and in line with social development – and a small kick back to our NATO allies. As a little curiosity, I can mention that my daughter was born in 1997 and is in the first litter to go to session. What she thinks about it is a bit interesting – I have not received a response yet to my text message to her. The Progress Party is pleased that the Minister of Defence has set up a selection to explore the professional, defence and social perspectives of the protection obligation, so that it is at all times the defence needs that govern the admission of women and men to the initial service. Such a selection should have the widest possible mandate. The selection should therefore not perceive the needs of defence – only what is operationally necessary – but assess the needs of defence from a societal perspective. For example, it is in the interests of defence, that is, as part of the defence's need, that the defence has strong support in the people, and that such support is maintained through presence, and that many people come into contact with defence differently. This creates national community and identity. If the needs of the defence are to be satisfied in any armed conflict, the defence must play a relevant role for most people also in peacetime. With this as a hindrance, it is important that first-time services not only include women and men with skills beyond what you can expect from average youth, although this, in a narrow sense, must be positive for the defence's fighting ability. The first-time service must not be for the elite alone. You could probably say a lot of negative if six-person or six-woman rooms or six-person/women's rooms, arrangement, fresh-tipped boots, marshalling, joint fermenting and winter practice with accommodation in tents, but that it creates cohesion, is raised above any doubt. The aim should be for more than one in eight young people to serve the first time. The revised protection obligation law, which provides for a general protection obligation, is in all respects positive. However, paragraph 3 is somewhat more difficult to obtain. It reads as follows: «Norwegian nationals shall be entitled to protection on release from 1 January of the year in which they reach the end of the year in which they reach the age of 44. Norwegian nationals who also hold foreign citizenship shall not be subject to protection in this State if the Convention with the foreign State does not prevent it. With the restrictions imposed by the Convention with a foreign country, the King may provide that the protection obligation shall also be imposed on anyone who, without being a Norwegian national, belongs here in the Kingdom. Such a guardian shall be free of military service when the State is at war with the country in which he is, or was last, a national.’;» This is a very unclear paragraph for me, and I hope that this selection that is being reduced can look a little bit closer to that definition. It's okay that the law says this, but you can specify which countries this applies, how many there are, how this is to be done, what is meant by 'the last was a national' or the second last one was a national, etc. That you can be in conflict with Norway without being a citizen is also a somewhat controversial question. So I hope you can problem this a little bit with the sample and work with the department to see how to actually use this paragraph and how it benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e212	I would also like to start by thanking the case spokesman for a good and tidy work. The size was soon six months ago when a female protection obligation was to be imposed in Norway. The decision taken today provides for changes to the laws necessary to implement the decision. There are good reasons why this must take some years, because the decision of the Stortinget in June 2013 was made before the necessary distributions were made. The bill that we are dealing with today also states that several distributions are now in progress to find out how defence and society can be improved when it comes to women's protection obligations and the resulting costs. It's natural that this takes time. The law cannot be implemented until the necessary physical installations are in place. The lack of consistency was a corollary reason why the Christian People’s Party’s national meeting in spring 2013 did not support the introduction of protection obligations for women – and I emphasise the word ‘obligation’. Instead, the country meeting would build on the new mandatory women’s session scheme and further develop women’s information on the opportunities offered by the Defence Service. In short, the line of the Christian People's Party can be summed up as a commitment to positive recruitment measures instead of coercion, combined with systematic work to facilitate women's participation in Defence. I have noticed that both in the debate in 2013 and now in the legislative process it is underlined that it is not a question of coercion, but that the defence should be able to choose between the best and the best and most motivated. If such words are followed up in practice, there may be little difference in the outcome between a strategy based on positive organisation and motivation, and a strategy based on the duty of protection for the most motivated. Although the Christian People's Party cannot vote in favour of today's legislative changes on the basis of its national decision-making, we are strongly committed to making the defence of a workplace where both women and men can better find their way. This applies to those who do first-time services, to those who are in rehearsal exercises, and to those who have chosen to bet on a career as assigned to the Defence. The defence, regardless of today’s decision, must develop training, work, housing and work environment so that girls and boys are known to be valued and respected. In that case, the percentage of women in the defence will increase, for the benefit of both the civil service and the defence. Summer up: Christian People's Party does not want the word "defense", but we want opportunities for women in Defence. At an incursion we are in the setting, but the Christian People's Party will vote against the setting today. Based on the signals given, we do it with easier hearts than we actually did in the spring of 2013, because we feel that the strategy that has been established, in many ways the Christian People's Party has come a long way to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e231	First, thank you to the case spokesman for the work that has been done. Norway has a land area of size with Italy, but with a tenth of the population. We're going to defend a sea area closest to the size of the Mediterranean Sea. It's a big and important challenge. The principle of universal protection is also enshrined in the Constitution — then, of course, only for men, it was unmistakable that women should enter the Army or other defence branches at that time. But it makes today a brand day when the Storting makes changes to the protection laws and thus makes the protection obligations universal, with equal rights and obligations for women and men. The centre party wants a popular defense – a defense of the people, of the people. The defence of the people is an important guarantee of democracy; a defence of broad masses of the people will be very difficult to put in place against the same people. By providing protection, we ensure a broadest possible recruitment to the Defence Force. This has a highly inclusive effect. A common defence must be composed of all the people, and of course it is also necessary to recruit enough women. For this reason, the Central Party has programmed the objective of gender-neutral protection. There's a lot of talk in Norway today about the dishes for each of us. We must not forget that society is built up of both duties and rights. The fact that we all have a responsibility to take care of the country, including by defending it, is to give us an awareness of the community of Norway. Mutual trust between the people and the Defense is decisive. This is just getting us through a popular defense composed of all the groups of society. The defence is given a broad and sound basis for recruitment by means of the protection obligation. The best-qualified and most motivated can then choose to continue their military careers after the forced duty of protection. To defend the whole country, we depend on it to carry people all over the country. They must have the competence to defend us if necessary. That's the background of the Center Party's strong commitment to Homeland Protection. Norway has a coastline rich in energy resources and fish. Resource-rich areas are traditionally more exposed to conflict. Norway must be aware of this and have a clear strategy for it. On a visit to the OECD in Paris last Friday, the Committee got to the right how far Norway has come in terms of equality, compared to many OECD countries. It was just enough devoted to industrial and managerial work. Here at home is a current debate on whether we need decisions in political bodies to come even further into real equality. Today's decision shows that political decisions are still needed. Afterwards, girls and boys shall have the same rights and obligations to defend Norway. It's a long step forward for real equality. In the future, it is important for the Minister of Defence to follow up and ensure that equality becomes a reality. This means that the content of the laws is to be made gender neutral, but it also means that physical infrastructure is facilitated, and that a work in which one in the Defence and Homeland Protection secures the culture and stature of female soldiers as men's concubines is set in motion. There's been a tendency to notice that these clips aren't good enough today. It is important that the Minister of Defense also secures it, and that all those who have their work in this important sector ensure that those who come in, regardless of gender and background, are well received and have the opportunity to do their best in the defence of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e256	What principles are used to recruit key social institutions actually help to influence how the authority of these institutions develops, how respect for these institutions is and how these institutions develop. The first time I thought about it was when my father told me that he was in the first German brigade sent to Germany after the war. Then Norwegian soldiers were told that if they took prisoners of war, they would handle them sea and not hand them over to the British or American defenses, because they had a corporate defense and treated prisoners of war badly. There were modest Norwegian soldiers. There was a difference between a protective defense and a recruited defense, because you recruited a slightly different type of people. I remember my father telling me about this. When it comes to having a duty to protect Norway — seas if we choose it, both those who want to do it and those who have the skills to do it — the idea is that we should all contribute, an important principle at the bottom of the building up of our defence. Similarly, I believe that today we are taking an important step towards maintaining the authority of defence among people, saying that everyone should enter into this compulsory protection system – everyone should have the idea that they must contribute to the community in that way. So we all know that all of us who have visited clean women's jobs and clean people's jobs, that no matter how much you work to cope with, don't let it affect the workplace, it always characterizes the workplace. All of us who have been with and put together teams know that putting together good teams to work often works better if it consists of a bit of each, often gets to quality in a different way and often affects the negative things – both what we ladies can cultivate in clean women's environments, and what men can cultivate in clean human environments. Then I believe that it is an important principle in any democracy that it must be widely recruited for any profession to hold authority. I believe that in Norway today we have three main professions which have that authority and which are to have that authority. It's our police, it's our defense, and it's our teachers. I think there are three types of authoritarian workers in a society where it is important to recruit widely, and where it is important to make sure that there is no one with a particular economic background or a particular social background who holds these jobs – or other criteria at the bottom. In order to have authority in a democracy, which these three professions must have, a recruiter must be broad. It must not be that one should be able to enter a first-class school and think about who it is that becomes teachers, policemen or highly ranked military. It shall be based on abilities, possibilities and potential, and that is how they retain the authority that allows them to do it on behalf of all of us. So I think, as many people have said here, that this is going to increase quality, because there's more to choose from. And to say it this way: I know a lot of ladies who can go far and carry heavy, and I know a lot of men who can't. So a little comment on being in conflict with Norway and having other citizenship, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde promised at the end. This is a well-known issue. For example, Norway chose: not to protest against the United States during World War I when very many Norwegians with Norwegian citizenship and relatively short periods of residence in the United States were drafted to fight in the trenches of Europe on behalf of America. My grandmother's uncle died in the trenches as a Norwegian citizen issued by the U.S. authorities. We've done this at all times, but it's clear that in terms of the security risk to a nation, it makes sense that, for security reasons, you may not want to print out people who have citizenship of the country you're fighting. I had an Argentine friend who had a son in Defense. Then he was invited to a reception with the Argentine president. He thought it was an amazing roughness from Norway that he could in Norwegian uniform feel both Argentine and Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e278	Today is a great and a proud day. We know that the will and ability are not linked to gender, and today the gates are opened to women in the Defence for serious reasons. Almost ten years ago, as a leader of Socialist Youth, I took part in a debate on gender-neutral protection in Oslo Military Society. Then it was mentioned in the debate that if women and men took part in a conflict, men would end up protecting women rather than fighting against their enemies. Then I said, "Shall women take responsibility for men's being found useless in strife?" We can't have that kind of defense. Much has moved since then – not least the debate on gender neutral protection has moved. SV fights for an equal society. Then there is also a need for an equal defence. Linking different expectations to girls and boys, to women and men, helps to accentuate gender roles instead of breaking them down. Today we see that important barriers are being broken. In addition, it is an important democratic principle that women as men should be involved in shaping their defences by taking part in it. So, as many have mentioned, there are some challenges related to gender, and they are right to raise and take on the greatest seriousness in a day like this. Sexual harassment is one of them. Sexual harassment is undesirable attention to gender, body or sexuality, and the speech of the figures is clear: in 2012, 23 pst were reported. by women who served the duty of protection, that they had experienced sexual harassment. There are serious numbers, and there are serious numbers that it is absolutely necessary to come up today and be discussed, because only in that way can we do something about that situation. It has not been given that other jobs or institutions would have come out better if one went to work as thoroughly to listen to women's experience, for sexual harassment is a serious social problem. But when we have the numbers on the table, when we have the knowledge, and when women carry that experience, we also have the opportunity to take the necessary steps to combat sexual harassment in defense. It's a great and proud day, and it's not primarily because women's contribution is to give a softer face in foreign affairs – it's not SV's position in the debate – but because a barrier is broken, a human bastion has opened its doors, and a very important step is being taken in building a real defence of the people, in expanding democracy and in strengthening equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e293	I will first take the opportunity as a very proud defence minister to greet the war school cadets and the TMO, who are sitting in the gallery. There is a historic decision The Stortinget must do today. I think the committee's attitude is good, and the rapporteur has done a very good job. The obligation of protection is an important principle of the social contract between citizens and the state. But it is only after the decision has been taken today that we can seriously say that both the female and the male members of the public are fully involved in this contract. The introduction of a real general duty of protection is a milestone not only for the defence but for the whole community. Not least, the Storting here today underlines the important principle of equal rights, equal obligations and equal responsibilities. This is also new crime. We're the first NATO country to do this, and I'm absolutely sure there's going to be a lot of positive comments and attention from my colleagues in NATO. The obligation of protection is a concrete expression of our common obligation to contribute to the security of citizens, society and the state. The defence of the territory and interests of the nation is a common social task. Protective obligations reserved only to men do not reflect the basic value of Norwegian society’s independence from gender. Better gender balance and greater diversity in background, experience and competence will make Defence more representative and ensure that the duty of protection remains in line with our societal values. The principle of compulsory protection is laid down in the Constitution § 119. At the heart of the duty to protect is the principle of equality. The extension of the protection obligation is introduced in order to enable the defence to recruit the most appropriate and competent and motivated persons in the whole population irrespective of gender. It will in the long term contribute to better operational capability. We ensure that we have the right skills in place and meet the defence's competence needs. And not least, we have a lot of capable women in Defense today, but we need more. The Government has proposed that the protection requirement should apply to Norwegian women born on or after 1 January 1997. This means that the first sheltered women will meet at the service in the summer of 2016. The introduction of a general protection obligation will not require all to serve first-time services. The defence needs are unchanged in today's situation and with today's structure. In other words, we don't need more servants than we need today. The defence is well in the process of facilitating the acceptance of the 97-coal: liners are being prepared, new uniforms and new equipment adapted to women are being ordered, and attitudes are being actively pursued, with which several representatives have been involved. Fortunately, we now see positive signs on the curves of those who experience unwanted sexual attention. I am pleased that the attitude that has been carried out over a long period of time seems to produce results. The ambition is to increase the proportion of women in the long term. The main means of achieving this is to make the first-time service as attractive as possible, so that as many women as possible themselves want to serve in the Defense Service, and we have to show that the first-time service is a merit service. The introduction of a general duty of protection shall contribute to the building of a forward-looking defence which is well anchored in the population and reflects the society it is set to protect. Over time, a higher number of women in first-time employment will increase the likelihood that some of these women will choose a career in Defence. It will also, in the long term, create a better organisation of competences, which is a prerequisite for modern and high-tech defences with a new operating pattern. The purpose of the government is to modernise and develop the protection regime in line with the needs of the defence. General protection must be seen in this context. I have therefore appointed a selection of members, among others. sits here in the Chamber to assess the professional, defence and social perspectives of the protection obligation and to recommend a future regime based on the needs of the defence. This also confirms some of the comments made by the Christian People's Party in the setting. Together with the Chief of Defense's professional military council, the recommendations of the selection will be a very important input into the new long-term defence plan. The protection obligation system shall cover the need for the defence to be manned and ensure the proper recruitment of qualified personnel. And not least, with the proper balance of personnel employed, the protection obligation will increase operational capability. This is in line with the principle of equal rights and equal obligations. It is an important step forward in creating a defence for a new era and new challenges. The changes in the laws adopted by the Stortinget today are historic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e329	I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a very good contribution. General protection is important to ensure the quality of our soldiers, and the defense can now choose among the best and most motivated. My question is how much emphasis the Minister of Defence puts on this with motivation, or whether the Minister of Defence thinks we should recruit women who are a little less motivated, to achieve a higher percentage. The proposal adopted today raises the level of ambition, but it does not change all positions. So my question to the Minister of Defence is, how important is this with attitudes? Should they be the same when it comes to motivation, for women and men? And: What is the Minister of Defence's ambition – for example. 30 pst. Or 40 pst? What level of ambition does the Minister of Defence have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e338	We're in the lucky situation that there's now a lot going on to get in and earn first-time service. That is, we have a lot of motivated women and men who want to do their first duty. We've been very conscious not to operate on percentages. It's been trying for a lot of years. The percentages haven't been reached, and then you've just set an even higher number. For us, the most important thing is to make sure that the initial service is experienced as a meritorious, as an incentive for a further career in Defence, and not least that we now have the opportunity to select among the most motivated and most suitable of both sexes. After the session part 2 became mandatory for women, we see that there are several women applying for defence. It's gradually moving forward, there's no rapid revolution, and it's not going to be now either, but it's a foundation that's laid for more women to get into the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e347	I expect the Minister of Defence to come up at a later level of ambition. I think that is important, because motivation is also about how to be encouraged by the Defence. We see from a number of colleges that have worked systematically with motivation, that it is important to get a higher proportion of women. My question is: to achieve a more even percentage, will the Minister of Defense look at this differently with motivation among women and men? There are obviously very many men who are motivated today, and there are several women who are, but perhaps not enough to achieve a uniform gender distribution today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e354	We're going to focus on the content of the service. Last morning I had with me a young girl who is now serving in Garden, on TV 2 to talk about her motivation for being in Defense. She was very clear that it's the content, the challenge of herself, the having a mastery feeling that's her reason to earn first-time service and not least to assess a further career in Defense. That's the way it is for the vast majority of guys and men in the defense, and that's the way it is for the girls and the women in the defense. That, I think, is the most important contribution we can make to increasing the proportion of women in the long term. That means that percentages are really quite uninteresting to discuss. That means that some years may be many, second years may be fewer. The most important thing is that they experience a meaningful service that is motivating and encourages a further career in Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e361	First, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Defence and all of us with the day. I thought it was an opportunity to do it today. I want to go a little further on what the previous replicator was about, because the minister said in his statement that the ambition is that the number of women should increase in the long term, and that may not be so ambitious, it's a little undercommittal. Once women have access to different parts of society since then, it has not come about by itself. Women may not have come by themselves into the different institutions of society either, but one had put forth extra effort to recruit, to motivate, to show that there is an exciting and meaningful work to be in that social institution. So what will the Minister of Defense do to get more women to realize that this is an exciting part of the world of work that one should search for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e366	I will also be allowed to return the congratulations and congratulate you on the day to the representative Navarsete. We've decided to look at this for a little bit of a review of how we're recruiting. Now, for many years, we've tried the measure in percent. They haven't been reached, and we haven't got any more women in Defense for that reason. We have only experienced that every time a goal is not reached, we set one that is even a little bit higher, and that is also not achieved. We have chosen to concentrate efforts on content, that it should be meritorious, that it should be experienced meaningfully and masterfully. I still experience in my conversations with many women in Defense that they are very concerned that they will have the opportunity to show them what they can – and they can do a great deal. Not to be demeaned by any of the men in Defense, but many women can do things as well if not better than the men in Defense can, and that's because they now want to show that it's part of Defense, choosing a career in Defense, it's meritorious, it's reasonable, and it gives them a mastery feeling that I think will be the most important recruitment action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e373	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e378	14 June 2013 was a brand day, and it is today as well. There are many good reasons for adopting gender-neutral protection obligations. Perhaps the most important thing is that the defence must and must develop in line with new skills needs and societal developments in general. The Workers' Party supports those who say that the Defense doesn't necessarily need more people, but a greater diversity to recruit from. We know that quality is becoming more important than before in our ability to defend ourselves. Therefore, the defence needs competence in more areas than in the past. It is also recognised that the defence must increasingly compete for the best minds in a labour market. Recruiting from all over the population is therefore important in order to ensure the most suitable and motivated candidates to maintain the operational capability of the defence. Another important thing is that defence is the strongest instrument of democracy. It is subject to democratic control and obtains strong legitimacy through the duty of protection. I believe that most people will agree that when you double the basis for the duty of protection, you also increase legitimacy. It's a very important part of Norwegian defence. At a time when many countries are shutting down their institutions of protection, Norway is strengthening its own. Thirdly, it's a very fundamental argument: everyone should, of course, have equal rights and obligations, regardless of gender. It should say itself, but it took 100 years for us to have the right to vote for everyone, and thus become a democracy, until today we also give the same obligations to everyone. As others have said, the introduction of gender-neutral protection obligations is a victory for equality in general and for Defence in particular. It is a fundamental value in Norwegian society that duties and rights are independent of gender. Gender-based protection obligations are one of the most recent social systems that distinguish between men and women. Even on a day like this, I feel that it is necessary to get into a topic that unfortunately must have a place in today's debate. It is not possible to conceal that many, both other representatives and I, have registered that many are angry and reported about unfortunate incidents involving girls who have served in the Defense Department. Both bullying and sexual harassment are totally unacceptable, regardless of the area of society. I also fully agree with what the representative Bergstø said in his statement on the same topic. I also know that the defense is working hard to achieve a vision in this area. I think the defense, which itself has been such a strong driver of gender neutral protection duty, deserves praise for having put this and corresponding issues on the agenda. I am proud to say that Norway, as one of a few countries – and the first NATO country to which the Minister of Defence was attached – has an equal defence. In this context, it is nice to remind all of us that the message in the defence slogan – «For everything we have. And everything we are” – today, October 14, 2014, gets a new content, that everyone is included in “we are”.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e395	I am pleased with the broad consensus that is in the Chamber on this matter. I think the case rapporteur has done a good job. For my own part, I must be allowed to say that I am delighted to meet in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly next month and boast that Norway is the first NATO country to give men and women equal rights and obligations to protect their country. The obligation of protection has long traditions in our country and is an important foundation both for defence and for other parts of the emergency sector. The obligation to protect ensures that the defence always has the necessary resources and personnel to perform its tasks. The needs shift over time, and the duty of protection has been a fixed point in the defence of Norway because it has been constantly adapted throughout history to the needs of time. As the rapporteur said, therefore, today is a milestone in the history of the duty of protection, and indeed in the history of our defence. Today, when we further develop the duty of protection of a general duty for all Norwegian citizens, it is important that it be dynamic and always used in a way that best serves Norway’s security. Schemes put in place on the basis of the obligation to protect must always be a means of safeguarding Norway’s interests and values and must never become an objective in itself. A general duty of protection shall now apply to all nationals of the country and shall not be limited to sex, fortunately. The primary function of the protection obligation is to anchor and legitimise the defence of the Norwegian community and to ensure the recruitment of a larger number of soldiers in the event of changes in security policy threats. Rights and obligations must be shared equally between the citizens of the State and in a defence designed to become a closely integrated part of Norwegian society. Then it is quite natural that the duty of protection strikes women and men alike. Historically, protection obligations have been practised in different ways and different practical arrangements have been implemented on the basis of the existing structure and needs of the protection obligation. For the Right, it is important that future safeguards are based on the fundamental principles of protection and the needs of the future, and not on historical responses to the needs of the past. The main feature that distinguishes the duty of protection from other common societal tasks is the possibility of recruiting personnel for military service against their own will. Thus, many associate the duty of protection with a one - year military education. It is essential that the personnel required to serve in operational departments are adequately trained and basic soldier training.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e408	Although exile government in 1942 imposed a duty to protect women, today we are writing both defence history and gender history. These are essentially three main arguments. The first is the obligation of protection itself. The duty of protection is the baseboard of our defense and binds the people and the defense together. An equal duty and right for women and men to defend the country is fair, and my claim is that it will strengthen the commitment to the protection itself. The second argument is the defence's need for competence. The defense needs the best, regardless of gender. Too many women have not seen the defense as a natural career path. As a result, the defense misses valuable competence. The defence must now be able to choose the best, regardless of gender. The third argument is the equality argument. The defense has great opportunities, which many women today are missing. In 2010 it was only 8.3 pst. by those who completed the initial service, women. Thus, the introduction of the mandatory session of women has not been enough to increase the proportion of women, either in the initial service or in the defence. I would say that it is sad that the Minister of Defence is now turning down expectations and the level of ambition by scrapping percentages as targets. I think it's a signal that can be interpreted as, in fact, you don't dare to concrete the target through a percentage, because you're afraid to rip the list along the way instead of skipping. It wasn't the defense that had to be convinced, it wasn't the trustee system that had to be convinced, it wasn't the trade union movement or the political youth organizations that had to be convinced, nor were we defence politicians on the Stortinget who had to be persuaded. It was the political parties at their national meetings that had to be persuaded. It was nice to be a defense politician last year. First, the national meetings of the SV and the Central Party said yes, then the Left, before we in the Workers' Party adopted the principle in April. I believe this is also one of the explanations why the Right Party and the Advance Party finally said yes, and why almost cross-political Norway, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, finally said yes. In the debate we have met many arguments: building masses, the biological principle, that the defence has enough people to choose from to meet its needs. But one does not need to know if the building mass is suitable for women to take a stand in a case of principle. This is a fundamental issue: either you are for women and men to have equal rights and obligations, or you are not. Because we already had the report of competence for treatment in Stortinget, we in the Workers' Party took an initiative to achieve the widest possible political settlement. I am very happy that we have succeeded. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Defence for having had the opportunity to resolve this matter in Stortinget today. The defense is the state's all, the most powerful means of power, and it's not what sex you have that determines whether you become a good or a bad soldier, but what you carry in your head, in your heart and in your hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e430	It really is a historic day today when, with a broad political majority, we adopt a new law of universal protection, both of which give equal rights, obligations and responsibilities to participate in the defence of our country. It is particularly great that this is happening today in the presence of both trusted and young cadets from the War School. The decision and change reflect general social developments. It will provide the defence with a broader recruitment basis and motivate more women to choose the defence as a career path, for there is no doubt that more women will provide the defence with significant qualities. It is also an important perspective that Norway thus becomes a leading country in the NATO context. As the Council of State has pointed out, there is still work to be done to adapt and design tomorrow’s duty of protection and first-time service — in terms of selection, attitude and practical adaptations in defence itself to the organisation of the service for women’s guardians. In this case, it is referred to the strong position of Defence in the Norwegian people and the deep anchoring of the protection obligation and first-time service in society. Now this anchoring must be extended and reinforced. For many of the young girls this applies, those directly affected, there is something new to relate to, a change that will take effect in a relatively short time, and that will shape an important period in their lives. As the representative of Tybring-Gjedde, I also have a daughter who was born in 1997 and who is the first year coal to be covered by the new compulsory protection scheme and who will soon be called to the post office for a session. I know that for her and for many of her friends there are many thoughts and unanswered questions, a combination of uncertainty, excitement and expectation associated with something new and unknown. It is therefore important that the need for good communication on the overall aspects of the protection obligation, as well as the practicality of the content of the service and the unique opportunities offered by the defence, is properly addressed, and that the message of why it is both right and important for the social contract to apply to both sexes when they are called in order to serve, if any, initial service is well communicated, and not least that we have a framework that provides women's guardians with a good and meaningful service where they feel well cared for. There has been an important job ahead of them in the extension of today's decision when Storting's decision is to be implemented. I feel confident that this is something both to the political management and to the defence of which the organisation is engaged, and will do its utmost to ensure that it is well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e441	I'm afraid I have to open the door to disappoint Gustavsen's representative a little bit. It was neither the representative of Gustavsen, the Workers' Party nor any other party that contributed to the decision of Hørre at the national meeting, but a rather hard work, among other things. from the Young Right and from men and women in the Party, far beyond those who were interested in defence, because we thought it was time for us to go ahead in Norway and introduce a general duty of protection. The fact that our decision was made late has the simple explanation – which the representative Gustavsen is well aware of – that our national meeting has been added late in the spring. That's why our decision came later than the Workers' Party. I am very concerned to stress that what is important for us now when we introduce a general duty of protection is to ensure that girls are motivated to do first-time service. The most important thing we can do for that motivation is to facilitate a meaningful service. This applies to both boys and girls in Defense, but in order for more girls to choose to enter and not least make a career in Defense, the content must be appropriate, it must be mastery, and there must be meaningful service and career opportunities. So just as in all other areas of life, it's not percentages that ensure recruitment, it's content and meaningful service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e448	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e469	I have read the national budget's reference to developments in the labour market and how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs refers to the labour market in its budget proposal as well as to the labour market under the Labour Inspectorate in Prop. 1 S for 2014–2015 from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Our labour market is being produced as well. This is also true when compared with the situation in most other European countries' labour markets. Nevertheless: Suffering if we have low unemployment and it goes well for the majority, we have growing problems in Norwegian working life, as I see it. This creates uncertainty and problems for more and more and is the basis for partly negative economic consequences for the government's finances in the long term. This is the background of my interpellation today. I don't have the whole overview. On the other hand, it is my job as an elected representative, how many of my constituents voted for me because they expect me to defend the interests of their professional groups in a labour market where more and more people experience a downward pressure on their hard-hit working and pay terms, to take it up. These developments have been taking place for several years but have been speeding up the enlargement of the European Union in 2004. Some years earlier, in 2000, the Storting had also adopted the EU adaptation, with the liberalisation of the Employment Act – more precisely: the Labour Market Services Act – which opened up the scope of temporary workers in Norwegian working life. This was a follow-up to the Blaalid selection. Social dumping, i.e. going away from Norwegian pay and working conditions, is an old fact, but is now up-to-date on the internal market in the EEA Agreement, with free movement of workers. Today, large parts of the EU are characterised by a deep economic crisis and high unemployment, and the trade movement in several countries is almost shattered. The free flow in the EU and EEA areas of explosive labour immigration to countries such as Norway leads to a serious wage competition exploited by cynical employers. This is a major problem for enterprises and employers following Norwegian pay and working conditions. Many workers are being exploited roughly. In Norway, we now experience that the dam is about to burst. The Norwegian model, with regular employment and an organised working life, has been put to a serious test in recent years. The manning industry has grown a lot at the expense of ordinary enterprises with orderly conditions. Many companies in the manning industry operate on the edge of and next to Norwegian laws and regulations. Smutholes are exploited, often at the most severe and at the expense of individuals. The start of the real debate on what will happen in Norwegian working life was in a TV debate at NRK in 1994: – Here is Anne Enger Lahnstein and says that we want to weaken professional rights. It's in the economic guidelines, Prime Minister. - It's wrong, it doesn't matter. This was the well-known exchange of lines between the then Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland and the former Head of the Central Party Anne Enger Lahnstein when the party leaders met for the final EU debate in the NRK Television three days before the EU vote on 28 November 1994. We didn't join. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, Many are grateful. But now we have an EU in crisis, an EU that has a systemic flaw because it is an economic union – not a political union. ILO Chief Guy Ryder in Geneva is deeply concerned. He represents the oldest organization in the United Nations, established in 1919, and points to the vital importance of working life for a safe society. The alternative has historically given rise to social and political unrest, with fascist movements increasing. It's very serious. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway is directly affected by the four freedoms of market forces, including: free movement of labour. More and more professionals in the labour market are experiencing increasing uncertainty and poorer pay and employment conditions. Differences are increasing. Difference Norway is in progress – in progress at the expense of the Society Norway of the Centre Party. This will be an important social debate – a social struggle, to use a mild variant of former Party Secretary Martin Kolberg’s use of language in the persuasion debate. The government wants more temporary employment in the world of work. More temporary employment is not the answer. The centre party is pleased with the massive resistance to government proposals, but the most unsafe and worst developments in working life take place through the large scale and large growth of the number of people employed by manning companies. It was the so-called Blaalid Committee in NOU 1998:15 on employment services and labour hiring/renting, which presented proposals for private temporary employment agencies, which were actually recruitment companies. The LO was represented in the sample and gave a clear signal to open up to private staff companies – and therefore for temporary employment. Reference was made to the EU competition rules, which established what the EEA Agreement requires. The least we can now demand is that the Norwegian authorities at any time have an overview of which companies with which employees carry out work in Norwegian soil or marine areas. Action plans against social dumping in the labour market are important. It is important to call on the Working Environment Act to protect permanent employment. However, it is also important to have a debate on the fact that it is the EEA Agreement that now decides – that we have lost the overall, national, popular control of the development of labour in the temperate, Norwegian society. There should be a cross-thinking for all in this room who are engaged in a well-organised and temperate Norwegian labour market/working life. In 2000, the Employment Act, now the 2004 Labour Market Services Act, was liberalised. With the eastward enlargement of the EU and the free flow of labour from the new EU countries in Eastern Europe to Norway, the recruitment industry has increased dramatically at the expense of ordinary enterprises with fixed employment and apprenticeship contracts. The manning industry, with the help of the NHO, does not practise remuneration between the various tasks, which are, as it were, undermining employment protection and permanent employment for workers and fair conditions of competition for the enterprises with permanent employees. The Working Environment Act is largely broken in terms of working time and job protection, without risk of penalties such as fines and penalties. The assumption of rentals from crew companies is a collective agreement. Here, trustees in the trade union movement say that the law is being broken on a large scale. The Temporary Agency Directive also needs to be re-examined as it leads to a competitive advantage for temporary agency companies at the expense of ordinary enterprises. Opposition to the temporary agency directive was based on confidence-selection so that they were losing control. This just keeps going. It is extremely difficult to organise the employees and not least to have them elected to employment agencies because they are, in fact, at risk of losing their jobs and jobs. Yes, many would say they will lose the job and the job. These are the realities, as I see it. The majority and we elected to the People's Party have had good and safe working conditions – it should be lacking – but what is the situation for many others? Employees in staffing companies are often not trade unionised and have no other – with the exception of parts of the trade movement – to ensure that their interests are safeguarded. They often work on very short contracts and often do not know how much they will have to live for the next month. They may be permanently employed, but their salary depends on whether or not they are given a job. Their contracts will be shorter and shorter. They often don't pay between the contracts. They often do not get contracts that go over festivals such as Christmas and Easter. If they correct criticism, they will not be asked to work the next time. This is the reality in Norway anno 2014, which we must take an active stand on in this Chamber. Do we want our working life to continue to evolve like this, or do we want to take our own steps to counteract the ever-increasing extent of the unemployment society that we now see emerging more and more, and that we didn't think many years ago we had been rid of once and for all? I ask that we, who make up the National Assembly, take an active stand if we want this brutalisation of Norwegian working life. A few weeks ago, the Landsorganisationen, LO, published by the Social Policy Department, the note ‘A new type of labour market’. The note has received a lot of mention in some media and newspapers, among others. ABC Nyheter and Finanzavisen have published an interview with a chief executive in LO, Stein Reegård. In the Finanzavisen on 3 October 2014, Reegård said that the two main hazards of Norwegian working life are the very large volume of foreign labour coming to Norway to work, and the lower level of organisation among workers in Norwegian working life. If the employment rate in Norway continues to fall for years to come, despite the fact that many immigrants in Norway are often young and in working-age conditions, fewer people should bear our share in the future. It can't happen. Therefore, it is not necessarily the case that the statement ‘work immigration pays off’ is, if many say so. Similarly, we need to be honest that labour immigration, which brings benefits to Norway, also brings costs. It is important that we see this in an overall context, not least in the work of the Labour and Social Committee, in order to ensure that those with a partial working capacity are employed. It's going to be very hard to make sure of that situation. The majority must decide and debate the matter. I'm glad we got the interpellation up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e509	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for putting an important debate on the agenda, a matter that is discussed in this Chamber many times, and that will be discussed in this Chamber also many times in the future. Let me underline that the Norwegian working life in general is serious. Nine out of ten who get up every morning and go to work are happy. They feel that they have a good job to do, and that it's good, serious relationships. I do not think we should forget that in this debate either. It's important for me to stress it. It is true that the EEA extension has led to more labour from the EEA into Norway. We need more labour. In a number of areas, it has not been possible to get enough labour after taking on the tasks to be carried out. Let me just point to something in some sectors. Employment immigration from the EEA has contributed to regional development — contributing to the existence of competitive businesses and good jobs in rural areas. Let me point out that in some regions this has been important and necessary labour force in agriculture, fisheries and industry. I'm glad that as human beings, we have the freedom to move between countries and offer our workforce in a good way. It is positive for Norway, and it is positive for the individual. Just to mention some facts about numbers: in the last ten years, we — as the representative Lundtägen was involved — have had a serious working life, high employment and low unemployment. There is nothing in the overall picture that suggests that labour immigration has led to a more unprofessional working life. 70 pst. short-term workers and immigrants come through labour immigration. We also see them in other professions, such as carpenters, carpenters, painters, and in the construction industry. I think the representative, Mr Lundteigen, raises a very important question. If we don't see unprofessionalism in the whole picture, we see in some industries an increase in the rate of crime at work. There's something this government is taking on the deepest seriousness. I and the government believe that it is important to have a decent working life, with rules of play that are the same for everyone. Working life with the same rules and a level playing field gives productivity and growth, and it gives the individual the joy of getting an income to live on. Therefore, we should never accept either persons or businesses trying to enter and outrun serious businesses by being unprofessional. That's why I, and the government, have said clearly: we want it to be easier to be serious and harder to be a bitch. That is why we have now tripled the efforts made in relation to the previous government in terms of coordinated, coordinated and unannounced supervision, where the tax administration, the Labour Inspectorate and the police join forces. The government continues to work to put in place an action plan with a new, clear grip to take the unprofessional ones by the end of the year. Furthermore, it is also important to look at what the representative asks about: How are we going to include several of our own outsiders in the workplace? In a short time, the government will present a communication in which we will make a number of good, concrete suggestions on how to include more people in the world of work. I want more people to experience freedom by being self-contained, having their own labour income. It's one of the greatest freedoms we can give a human being – whether it comes from Verdal, or it comes from Oslo, Sweden, or Poland. I record that we want – and need – labour immigration in the future as well. We have to be able to deal with two things. One: We need more labour. Then it is important that we gain skilled labour within a serious working life, where everyone, regardless of where in the EEA territory they come from, is treated equally, and where there are clear methods and clear steps to take those unprofessional, take the cellars, and support them seriously. I also see another picture, in addition to the fact that we need more labour: in 2025 – if you bring forward that vision of the future – you will find that you have 200,000 people who are unskilled. At the same time, we will need 90,000 more skilled people than we can produce. It tells me that we have to get a lot better at inclusion policy. We need to be better – and more ambitious than the former governments have had – in qualifying people for the jobs society needs in the future. At the same time, we need to use the skills we need to further develop and secure Norwegian jobs in the future. We need both, not either-or. Many Norwegian enterprises depend entirely on highly skilled technological workforce. We can mention the SINTEF environment in Trondheim. We can mention the clusters in Bergen that live in a global world – which competes globally – where high quality, right quality at the right time and high skills are important. Then it's important that we do two things: both to train within the skills we ourselves need, and to make it easier for those who can offer from abroad the skills that we sorely need and that we cannot provide ourselves. That is why I am pleased that this government has set up a service office for foreign labour in Bergen. We have it in Oslo – with great success – and we have it in Stavanger. It's important to be able to see the whole picture to be able to have multiple thoughts in your head at the same time. I don't want to move into what the representative is talking about, about unemployment or not. For me, it becomes a history description that is completely wrong – if you go back and read the story. Nor is it right what the representative says, that those who are temporarily employed have the greatest difficulty in notifying of cases at their place of work that are not good. Let's take the construction industry, where there's been the most supervision of unprofessional things. There it is 4.2 pst. of the temporary staff. In the health and social sectors and in the education sector, there are more than 11 pst respectively. and 13 pst. who are temporarily employed. Which of the sectors is the most frequently notified? Well, it's in the health and social sector and in the school sector, where it's the most temporary. So that thesis is also not right. I think that's an image you also have to include in the debate. I think it is important to nuance the debate. It is important to base the debate on the facts and recognise that we need two things: we need to further develop a labour policy that hangs on the serious and makes it easy to be serious, but also makes it possible to obtain the labour force that businesses need at all times to be competitive, to strengthen jobs, to further develop their workforce and to create more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e535	I would like to thank you for your answer. And I would like to thank you for what was said about the concept of «freedom». That Council of State said that the greatest form of freedom is when a person is a sea mountain with his own income, is very well said. What is central then is that one should be a sea mountain with its own income when one lives and works in Norway, and then one must have a income that is proportionate to our cost level, and a housing situation and a life situation that is benign. - Very good. Furthermore, it's clear that we need work immigrants, so we're not talking about either-or. But what I invite you to a debate on is the concept of ‘freest possible immigration of labour’ versus ‘controlled immigration of labour’, based on the fact that it is the nation state of Norway that ultimately has responsibility for whether or not the freedom to which I have now referred becomes reality for people. I fully agree that there is a lot of temporaryity among employees in the school and health sector who should not have been there when they are public employees. I fully agree that there is an omission that has been passed on also under the red-green government, and that is something that I hope the Council of State can address. But then the Council of State says that labour immigration has not led to ‘a more unprofessional working life’. We have a different sense of reality of what is developing. The Council of State is talking about ‘adequate’, talking about ‘like rules’, talking about ‘unfair’ and talking about becoming ‘challenge’. Kjeltringer is someone who does something illegal. As it evolves today, very much of what happens on the labour market is not illegal, but on the contrary legal. Therefore, I said that social dumping is when one goes away from Norwegian pay and working conditions. There's a lot of negative things that happen before there's any work-life crime. That's the worst thing, and we agree that it has to be cleaned up. But there are questions about what is legal, and what is not legal – what we add up to. And we have to get the facts out, so that we can at least discuss in the future based on a common sense of reality. Crew companies – who are they, and how many people are working in these companies at all times? What is a work immigrant? Is there a person working for earnings or labour income in Norway who pays taxes and levies from the first day, as others? Only the Council of State could answer the last question, what an immigrant is, and maybe we got a little bit further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e548	Let me clarify some things. Even after the EEA enlargement in 2004, which means that more immigrants have come to Norway, the picture is that we have a serious working life in Norway. It's important to underline. I'm not saying it's trouble-free, I also said in my post, but we see an increase in a more brutal working life in some sectors. Therefore, a more targeted policy towards the unprofessionals is important in order to unlock them. That's what the government is doing. Therefore, it is important that we go through the tools used in the three Action Plans delivered to the Stortinget, so that we find out what works and what does not work, and so that in the future we do more of what works, to take the unprofessional, and do less of what seriously imposes on them an increased bureaucracy, and that does not work. What is a work immigrant? Yes, it is one who comes to Norway and offers his/her labour force under the pay and working conditions applicable to Norway, which are laid down in our labour legislation. I expect you to follow Norwegian labour law. I expect that Norwegian wage and working life policies will be followed. So we know that someone is trying to avoid it. This is why more coordinated supervision is important, and more coordinated supervision is important, with stronger and more concrete instruments in relation to the industries, those groupings, in order to take them out. I agree with interpellant Lundtegen that it is important to make sure that we have a decent working life. It is important that those coming to Norway should all deal with the wage and working conditions in force in this country, regardless of the sector in which they offer their labour. That is something we have to establish, but also something we have to follow up with political action every day to prevent anyone from violating those rules. That's what this government is doing, and it's a policy the government is taking the deepest seriousness. We see unprofessional trends in parts of the world of work, but once again, the big picture is that we have a serious working life. Then we have to take those who are unprofessional, within the industries where the unprofessional have grown.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e557	Thanks to the interpellant, which is based on the EEA Agreement. We may not need a crystal ball to predict that the EEA agreement has come to be – it is at least going to live another while. However, the question from the interpellant was what the Council of State will do to ensure that Norwegian pay and working conditions continue to apply in Norway – or in other words, what will the Council of State do to counteract negative pressure on pay and working conditions in several professions in Norway? I think the answer from the Council of State can simply be summed up in one word: nothing – at least very little. Governments and governments have so far shown that they want to move in the opposite direction, by weakening the position of workers in Norway in general. The Council of State said in its statement that there are good, serious conditions for nine out of ten in Norwegian working life. Then I believe that the Council of State should think a little bit about why it is. It's because we have the rules we have today, which protect Norwegian workers, and which are worked out by the trade union movement itself, in cooperation with the authorities. A strong trade union movement, in tripartite cooperation with the authorities and employers, is unique. It's the Norwegian model, and I guess that's not what the Council of State chose to call "bureaucracies" in the field of working life. But it is a model that is now under strong pressure. The Stoltenberg Government therefore promoted three action plans against social dumping, with the emphasis on measures in vulnerable sectors, such as cleaning, construction and construction, agriculture and transport, to name a few. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the new blue government has said that they will continue to work against social dumping: ‘Although Norwegian working life is largely characterised by neat and orderly conditions, some industries are characterised by social dumping and unacceptable pay and working conditions. This is unacceptable, both for the workers affected and for competing companies that comply with the law. The Government will therefore continue its efforts to combat social dumping.’ But so far we haven't seen much about what that bet is going to be – on the contrary. When we have promoted representative proposals to combat social dumping, for example. in the transport sector, government parties have voted against, even though we know what kind of conditions exist in parts of that industry. In line with Action Plan No. 3 we set up tripartite sectoral programmes for joint efforts between authorities, workers and serious employers, but in its first full blue budget, this government responds by removing almost the entire allocation of these programmes. Of almost 11 million. I'm just going to have $2.7 million. So let's add another cent. The rest has been transferred to the Labour Inspectorate. It is positive that the government strengthens the Labour Inspectorate, but it should have been done with money other than those set aside to cooperate with the social partners. Labour supervision can be more effective, yes, but it can never be as effective to reveal social dumping and labour crime as 60,000 schooled trustees in all industries across the country. The Council of State said that an action plan comes before the end of 2014 – so it takes one and a half years to get it out – and the more incomprehensible it is that the first bullet point under the theme of working life in the government statement is about attacking and weakening the employment environment law and thus weakening the position of workers in Norway in general. It went at a record speed. After that, people have to be employed more on a temporary basis. Permitting legislation is weakened, despite warnings from employers. Both parts allow for an increase in the level of rental, and for fewer fixed-term employment an increase in the level of rental. Fewer permanent employment leads to a weakening of the trade union movement and thus to a weakening of the serious part of the labour market. It is incomprehensible that a government saying that it will further develop the labour force, as the Council of State just said, goes for just increased temporaryity, longer working days without overtime, less assistance from trade unions, more Sunday work and – last but not least – that trade unions will no longer be allowed to sue on behalf of members. Government weakens the role of trade union movement at a time when it needs to be strengthened, also in the interests of serious enterprises. The government weakens the ability of employers to maintain their own permanent employees, by weakening the legislation on permitting. The fight against social dumping is at the seventh and last of all about protecting the Norwegian welfare society. Norway has one major advantage over many other countries, in the fight against social dumping and for the welfare community, and there is a strong trade movement in committed tripartite cooperation. The government is now under attack because – as right-wing politicians and forward-looking party politicians answer in surveys – the workers in Norway have too much power. It's completely incomprehensible to everyone else. When we need 90,000 more skilled workers, they can't just be imported. We must also tempt Norwegian youth, and then we must have tidy working conditions in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e588	SV shares Eriksson's view that most people experience working life as well. That is also why we are actively working for a policy that will make the future's working life safe and sound. Respect for and development of tripartite cooperation is at the root of this. But there are also other crucial things: a work environment law that is a clear protection law, a regulated working life and not least a strong trade movement, where a high proportion of the population is organised. Although most people experience working life as well, we see serious developments. That is why I would like to thank the representative, Mr Lundteg, for raising this necessary debate. For what do we see? Well, we see a growing manning industry, that social dumping is becoming increasingly serious, that slave-like contracts are being uncovered, and that there is a great fear culture, especially among foreign workers in Norway. We also see serious crime at work, which is being recruited from desperate people in a Europe in crisis. That is why I am pleased that the trade union movement has taken hold. In order to prevent social dumping and erosion of working life, Oslo Building Workers' Association was early off to hire people who could speak for themselves, for example. Polish. The road to a safe working life lies in organised workers. That is why I am also pleased that we, who were in the Red-Green Government, presented action plans against social dumping, with measures that we know have an effect, if they are allowed to work and continue. That is why we in SV were also clear that we would reject the EU agency directive, and we are clear that developments in Norwegian working life should be decided in this room and in good tripartite cooperation – not by the EU and the EEA. I am very pleased with Eriksson's clarity about the serious crime of working life. I am also pleased that the Council of State is so clear that we need to secure Norwegian jobs and combat unfortunate and serious cases in the workplace. There are in particular two measures I think are necessary to realise it. One is about publicising collective agreements, but in order to do so, we need to do something about the documentation requirement. We need a simplification. The second measure is not only about strengthening the Labour Inspectorate through increased resources, but it is also about empowering the supervisory authority to respond. I would like to hear the thoughts of the Council of State Eriksson about precisely these matters: simplifying the requirement for documentation to generalise collective agreements and the ability of the Labour Inspectorate to respond, as well as increasing resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e607	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for an important debate. I think it's important to remember how little we have to earn from this debate being polarized. In this context, I would also like to remind you of the importance of those who are going to work on these things – i.e. those who are going to practice the campaign against labour-life crime, such as. social dumping is a consequence of – emphasising that we actually agree on the challenge and agree on what we should go after. I think we are, but so in this debate, the Workers' Party and SV are able to do the trick of making points, like that. when the representative Lise Christoffersen refers to one of the very few proposals the Labour Party has made in the field of working life, and then speaks of nothing being seen in the government's initiative. But in all days, is a separate action plan against economic crime the same as nothing? Or triple the efforts for more co-ordinated supervision of taxation, labour supervision and the police, is there nothing? No, rather on the contrary, there are important measures. I also want to underline the consensus and consensus that has actually advised on this issue. That is why both the position and the opposition in the previous two periods agreed on a very large number of measures. I don't expect us to agree on everything, but we have to, at least, when we talk about this question, discuss this question, somehow acknowledge the relevance of our moving together in the same direction. I know that the opposition is critical to some of the changes proposed in the Working Environment Act. I expect the opposition to agree on the level of penalties for breaches of the Working Environment Act. There's something this government wants to provide. But I think it's very important to remember that when we want to get more into it as a whole is a good, decent and serious working life, then it's important to be able to lower the thresholds to that working life. So you have to disagree with the fact that lower thresholds into working life are important, but to bring it in as if we don't take the crime of working life and social dumping seriously, I just don't have anything to do with it. I can respect the fact that the opposition disagrees with us that local agreements between local trust-elected and local employers should be respected more, as we believe, but I think it is strange to say in the next breath that you now have a government that does not respect trust-elects in the trade movement. I also think it's funny that it's being brought into a debate on work crime and social dumping. Finally, I would like to say a little about the role of the trade union movement. Just what I'm going to address right now is not something you can solve with political decisions, but it's a debate that deserves to be lifted. It's about what you could read from the previous YS work barometer, which says there's fewer people who want to be trusted. Recruitment of trustees in the trade union movement is a challenge. At least I don't think you're helping the trade union movement to do such recruitment by telling people that being trusted doesn't want anything to say under this government because it's proposing changes to the Working Environment Act, when we actually want to give local trustees more power. I think we should stick to the theme we're discussing. I think we should do what we can to move in the same direction, recognize what we agree on, in order to recognise the importance of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e631	According to De Factor's report No. 4/2014, labour costs in the EEA range from EUR 5 to EUR 40, i.e. between EUR 40 and DKK 320 per hour, and unemployment varies from almost nothing to EUR 25. At the end of 2002, 139 007 residents and employed immigrants were registered in Norway. In 2013, the number 358 was 421, so plus 220 000 and in total, the population in Bergen. The whole employment growth in Norway during that period has come through this immigration labour force. In addition, there are at least 90 000 short-term employees. The vast majority come from the new EU countries of old Eastern Europe. There were 7 000 in 2002, while there were 90,000 in 2013. This shows what we're actually facing. The council says he wants to do something about the unprofessional. The discussion then becomes what's unprofessional; what's allowed, and what's not allowed. That's what we're discussing here. What the representative Lise Christoffersen said about cooperating with the trustees in the workplace, should be a seaworthy thing for the government to do, for it is wise, positive, reasonable and in all our tradition that one does. It is a little sad that the government did not support the red-green government's proposal on transparency and collective redress, which the trade union movement wanted to improve. It may be produced in such a way that only the left-hand side of Norwegian policy is concerned with these questions, but the central part does not belong to any left-hand side or any right-hand side. We belong to the serious working life. Yesterday's newspaper said that the construction industry fears liberalisation. The construction industry, i.e. NHO, and also Kripos, is «anxious for the liberalisation of the labour market». They believe that ‘workplaces with permanent employees are an instrument against crime’. There's a common understanding out in real life that one here has to do something. What is central is that the Council of State addresses the major and growing problems created by the scale of the enormous supply of labour from the EU area for Norwegian labour. Norwegian authorities are currently unable to control this easily because the apparatus is not dimensioned and organised for it. This has to be recognized. Finally, I would like to say that it is quite special that in such an important debate one does not use the time given at the disposal. It's also special that no more parties here in this Chamber choose to take part in the debate. It makes me very concerned, and there is a need to deal with the matter appropriately further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e649	This is, as the representative Lundtigen says, an important debate, and one would have liked it to have been a larger and wider debate, with several views from the other parties as well. Let me first clarify: the general rule in Norwegian working life will also be regular employment under this government, so let's not discuss it as if it were not the general rule in the future. The representative Lise Christoffersen says that this government has done very little or nothing to meet the challenges. Let me repeat: first, we are working with an action plan to combat financial crime, where we see that labour-life crime is also an important part. Secondly, we have tripled the efforts of coordinated supervision between the Tax Agency, the police and the Labour Inspectorate – the means of action that everyone now says is the most effective means of taking the basements, while at the same time helping the established companies to be serious. We have an important tool that works. Thirdly, we are in the process of implementing industrial programmes in two important sectors, both the outreach and transport sectors, where unreality has been and is a phenomenon. These industry programmes are being launched. I remember that this government has not yet sat for one year – there are still two days left – and it is not a year and a half we have spent on this, as Lise Christoffersen points out. Let me also remind you that the red-green government delivered its first action plan on social dumping in 2006, i.e. the year after they joined. We come with our action plan the year after we joined. In 2008, Action Plan No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Why – we can ask questions back to Lise Christoffersen if – would it take three years before action plan No. 2 came? And why would it take another five years before action plan No. 3 came? Was it because one had managed to stop the development? And have those action plans stopped development? Was it worse in 2005 than it is today? No, those who are criminals and unprofessionals are jumping faster than us, no matter which political party we belong to, and therefore we have to jump faster. That must be the clear message. In addition, we have increased the penalties for serious violations of the Public Service Act — one can risk prison sentences of up to two years, before there were only fines. Serious breaches of the Labour Environment Act may result in prison sentences of up to three years, before it was a maximum of one year. We are more grateful to take the unprofessional ones in that area as well. If these grips are nothing, I strongly disagree with those who claim it. It is massive, concrete instruments that work well and that have come quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e670	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e686	In 1998, a book was published that received a lot of attention and recognition. It was about the women and men who shaped and modernised Norway from the 1800s until the end of the last century. The book was entitled ‘The National Streets’ and was written by Rune Slagstad. The 470-page work deals with technology, economics, politics, religion and culture, church, business, sport and language struggle, road development, architecture and school. One of the mentioned and striking strategists in post-war Norway was Jens Christian Hauge. He and many others in the resistance movement had seen the significance of research for the British during World War II. The modernisation of the defense in the post-war period was to be based on technological research, and the establishment of the Defence Research Institute was adopted in the spring of 1946 in Stortinget. Technological development was essential to improve defence capabilities. In addition, Hauge saw a large industrial potential in this area. He had other things with him, Finn Song. He was a long-time director of the FFI. He died on Sunday, 98 years old. Hauge and Song are two of many striking figures that have shaped our society. The story of them, as we can read in the book of Schlagstad, can inspire us today as well. Maybe it can inspire us away from the details, so we look for solutions along the big lines. The aim of this interpellation is to raise the research perspective to an area where the research tradition is weak and where the appropriations are very low, despite much attention. The rug we know well. In the last three years, social security and preparedness have received a completely different focus than before. There is thorough evidence that the preparedness for major events related to social security is not as good as expected. There are significant challenges to the organisation of resources and the interaction between the resources we have. How much money is allocated each year is essential. Building the environments of competence is essential. But in the end, it is about the rapid use of new knowledge by those responsible. The level of research resources is not the main element of this article – although it is tempting to note that the government has not been able to increase the funding for this type of research in the next year’s budget, as far as I have been able to see, and that the FFI receives 45 million. kr i cut off its strategic research resources. In any case, we can establish the following: the research appropriations for the justice and preparedness area have historically been lower than for other departments, although there have been positive developments in recent years. Not least, the SAMRISK and SAMRISK II programmes are good, and they get my full support. My claim is that the main challenge in this field is that it is fragmented and missing a glue that binds across the sectors. Let me substantiate this: different sectors have different traditions of research. Technological and medical environments are traditionally strong in research-based activities. Nursing and police are vocational training courses with more experience-based and practical training, which underpins the fact that the Police College first became a university in 1995. Their main focus has been the education of a profession, not research. This is about to change. Norwegian police research is on the rise and has been allocated funds from the SAMRISK programme earlier this year. But the environment is young – it is small and vulnerable. In addition, the close links between police and researchers are questioned. Danish researcher Lars Holberg recently published an article on Nordic police research – challenges and opportunities. He points out that a general challenge in all Nordic countries is the willingness of police management to have direct influence on research and its results, as well as on close links between the researchers and the police. But preparedness and social security are more than police. Another recognised research environment has grown up at the University of Stavanger. Seros is a centre for research into risk management and social security. They graduate many doctoral candidates, and have a lot of scientific publication to refer to. They work in particular with problems related to petroleum activities. Gjøvik University is equally good at cyber and information security, and NTNU SIMLab works with design engineering and explosion safety, which should also be opened up for the week. We also have many other research institutes in Norway, whether in welfare research, energy, international policy or environmental research, to mention something. Some of these institutes work in areas of social security and preparedness. The FFI has an environment in terrorist research – mainly funded by its own resources. PRIO and NUPI have some activity related to the same type of issues. At the University of Oslo and Akershu, people who are up-to-date on Muslim terrorism work, but they do not have a large research environment on the subject. The picture that emerges is that there is no institution with social security and preparedness as its core task. A lot of people are working on their problem area. There are no environments that choose to sit with the whole picture. So what does this mean in practice? We are facing major challenges in the police. In the police analysis, it says: ‘The longer-term efforts to develop the knowledge front within the police’s core tasks are spectacularly low.’ [[...]] Lack of research-based knowledge is striking and documented. Unfortunately, there is therefore a risk of making mistakes now that the police are to be reorganised. That gives cause for concern. The main problem, as I see it, is that we have few, vulnerable and fragmented environments. It is particularly demanding when security and preparedness affect so many sectors, includes many disciplines and involves interdisciplinary research. The international perspective must be present, and both basic research and applied research are needed in parallel. Within the research used, it is necessary to work closely against both the public and private sectors. In addition, defence and civil society must cooperate. Lots of this we know are demanding barriers in areas that are already researching strengths. This is particularly challenging in areas that are partially research weak, which lack broad, established environments built over time and which have robust funding. There is little doubt that the challenges in this area are also growing – climate challenges and terrorism, globalisation and the revolution in information technology. In the wake of all this, we find a new type of crime, new forms of terrorism and new natural disasters. Threats that were once local have become global. Ebola is a good example of that. In my work on this interpellation, I have tried to explore the picture of the current situation in the field. It is fragmented and inconclusive, and I have been strengthened in my belief that we must lift our eyes and think again. The time has come to build a bigger environment, with solid and predictable funding. How this is going to be done, I have less bastant perceptions about. It could be, for example, the creation of a new institute with basic appropriations from the Ministry of Justice and Defence, or, alternatively, the inclusion of the same department on the owner’s side, for example. The JRC, with a strengthened basic allocation and an extension of its mandate. Other environments may also be relevant. Unless it is a completely new institution, the type of funds should probably be released. By the end of the year, the Minister shall present a research plan for the justice sector. I have hopes for it and that one who describes a strategy for a long-term boost for research on preparedness and social security. But I fear that it may quickly be an upsurge of environments around the country that do a good job, but that work with their little bit of this area, and that are struggling with the construction of robust environments because they are too small and because the funding becomes too weak and unpredictable. I'm afraid that's not good enough. We all agree that social security and preparedness need to be improved. Then we have to raise our heads and think about long-term and strategic research in this area, as the national strategists did many years ago. It will provide us with better decision-making bases to make the right decisions and make the research available to the police in their practical work, but also to other institutions, such as the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, the Defence, Civil Protection, the State and Municipalities, to mention some of the important ones. Putting new research into practice is proving to be challenging in many areas. This, of course, must be done on the teaching side, through initial training at universities and higher education institutions, but also through systematic continuing training. Not least, this is important to get the police in place. I know the minister is concerned about research and education. I'm excited to hear how he sees the future for research on justice and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e733	Let me first thank you for a good interpellation and a good and interesting post from the interpellant. Of course, one can easily fall for the political temptation to say — when the introduction goes back to a book published in 1998 — that the Aasen Party has had eight years of visionary thinking, including in security and preparedness research. But I agree with the interpellant that it is important that we have a somewhat general perspective on that discussion. It is essential that research-based knowledge and competences are available to strengthen police and preparedness. It is absolutely essential that practical work be more focused. This is therefore a very important topic, and for 2014 it is allocated about 45 million. kr to various research and development projects under the own budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. This is approx. Five million. kr more than in 2013. Of the total appropriations in 2014, 23.2 million were committed. D allocated to free research projects in the field of justice and preparedness and to more concrete follow-up of monitoring reports or public investigations, as well as evaluations and other knowledge acquisition. Furthermore, 22.1 million is set aside. kr to long-term knowledge building within the department's sector, where the Norwegian Research Council is the Programme Management Board. In addition, research carried out under the auspices of the higher education institutions of the justice sector, at the College of Police and the Educational Centre of Criminal Affairs, will be operational grants to specific research institutes charged with various professional chapters, as well as research and development tasks under the direction of the underlying activities and sectors. This in many ways underpins the image that the interpellant takes up, that this looks fragmented. At the same time, it is a counterpart of what the representative refers to as a possible vision for the future, namely a research institute of its own. The width of the social security and preparedness side is so large that it is difficult to imagine a single level, or single institute, that can solve all the research tasks of social security and preparedness. It's a thought for which I have great sympathy, but one has to assess this in a more comprehensive perspective. In the case of projects financed by the Ministry of Justice and Defence directly to research and development environments, we are currently in the middle of the tree compared to other departments. On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has relatively low appropriations for applied programmes under the auspices of the Norwegian Research Council. For 2015, the government has proposed a budget of 53.5 million. for research. This is an increase in both the 2013 budget and the 2014 red-green budget proposal. I agree that there is clearly a need for more knowledge in the justice and preparedness sector. The Ministry is therefore now in the final phase with its own overall strategy for research and development. This is the first time that the Ministry has created its own research and development strategy. It's been possible to do the same thing in the past. The aim, of course, is to contribute to more knowledge-based and targeted activities in its own sector. It is an ambition to strengthen the long-term building of competences in the research environments of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. In the context of the research strategy, we have more systematically than in the past identified the knowledge needs in the justice and preparedness sectors, both from the point of view of the department and from the point of view of the enterprises. This survey shows that there is a high level of knowledge needs and that in some areas there is a low level of competence in the research communities within the department’s responsibilities. An important component of the strategy and its follow-up will be to improve the capacity of departments and businesses to benefit from research as a basis for policy and management development. A challenge for the justice and preparedness sector is that many research themes are of a cross-sectoral nature. This also calls for special attention to be paid to cooperation with other ministries on projects and programmes. I would like to highlight a number of areas where R & D has been set aside within the framework of the funds provided by the Ministry, and initiatives have been taken to increase efforts in 2014. In June 2014, the government launched an action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism. Knowledge and competence are one of the priority areas of the action plan. The need for research in the field is emphasised. In the field of justice, two research projects have already been announced and allocated in 2014 as a follow-up to action in the action plan: a project on preventing radicalisation and violent extremism in municipalities and a project on radicalisation processes and motivational factors related to foreign fighters. Research efforts in the field of violence in close relations are strengthened by the publication and establishment of a dedicated research programme in 2014. This is a five-year research programme and the overall cost framework is 25 million. kr. The mission has been assigned to the Norwegian Institute for Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing, NOVA. The research programme shall contribute to the strengthening and development of multidisciplinary efforts and the development of theory in this area, and to an increased understanding of what violence in close relations is all about. Knowledge of the extent, causes, character and consequences of violence is essential for good quality in the relief services. In addition to establishing a new research programme on violence in close relations with NOVA, the government is increasing the funding of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, by 5 million. kr annually over five years from 2014, for research on violence in close relationships. In 2014, there has also been a strengthening of research in the field of ICT security. In total, it's set at $4 million. kr for this purpose. This appropriation is used to strengthen the academic environment for ICT security at the University of Gjøvik. Research on ICT security is a priority area in the future. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is also involved in the financing of the cross-sectoral research programme SAMRISK II. The programme started in 2013 and will go over a period of five years. The total annual allocation is 20 million. kr, and the Ministry of Justice and Defence spends 13 million. kr. The aim of the programme is to increase knowledge of threats, hazards and vulnerabilities. Attention will be paid, inter alia, to: against the prevention of terrorism and other deliberate acts with high potential for harm. This is long-term knowledge building, and more projects are under way in the autumn, including: on issues related to radicalisation, increased risk of digitisation and organisation of security and crisis management. The newly launched research programme Horizon 2020 under the auspices of the EU will also be of great importance for the justice and preparedness field. Here it's important that we are active on the track. Priority will be given to instruments for the building of competences in the research communities that may increase the likelihood of Norwegian researchers winning in competition for funding from this programme. The current areas of the Horizon 2020 research programme for the justice and preparedness sector are social security, crime prevention and migration. We have experience from the past with a relatively high allocation from the EU's previous programme, the Security Programme. The work being done on the organisation of the police is also important in view of the police’s ability to take advantage of research-based knowledge. With fewer and larger police districts, it will be easier to see business as a whole and to attract exchanges of both research-based and other knowledge. I see stronger professional environments around the country as a tool to ensure a higher professional standard of police services across the country. At the same time, we need a close-up police force to ensure good local knowledge, including: through systematic dialogue with municipalities and other partners. Both research-based knowledge and local knowledge are key building blocks for the police of the future. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again the importance of knowledge as a basis for the work done in the entire justice sector. This means that we need to focus on the construction and dissemination of knowledge. Facilitating a clear research strategy is a very important piece of this work. It is about ensuring that knowledge is disseminated in its own sector, and that it is put into practice, and thus helps us to prioritise properly, so that efforts are put in place where there is a greater need and where they bring the greatest benefit. The ability to develop and acquire new knowledge is essential to ensure an efficient and future-oriented justice sector. I would also like to thank the interpellant for an article that helps raise the eye – which was really the main purpose of the interpellant, as I understood – because it is necessary to think a little bit new and different. We are now working on our first research strategy precisely to ensure a more knowledge-based response sector. There is no doubt that over time there has been too little focus on research in this field. That, I think, is a relatively broad consensus on purely realistic. For us, it is important that we focus on the relevant research in the future in order to ensure that we are better able to deal with the kind of situations that we face from time to time unfortunately. In the back of your mind, the Construction Commission, among others. pointed out that, for example: the police had not evolved to be a learning organisation, it also shows that this is not just about research, but about how to get the results of the research into the management that is actually going to take place in the agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e773	I would first like to thank the Minister of Justice for a good answer, which was both well prepared and able to meet the challenges that came to my contribution. I really appreciate that. I am also very positive and have expectations for a research strategy of my own in this field, because I think that is absolutely necessary. But I will also point out something and take up the thread in the post of Minister Anundsen. A survey of the need for knowledge has revealed that there are significant gaps, it was said. Then I would like to have a response in the research report on how to seal those holes. Experience from research policy in general is that the Research Council cannot disclose or expect to draw significant funds from Horizon 2020 if it does not already have an established environment. That's what's a little bit of a problem here. There are, as both the Minister and I can ram up, many scientists in the field of preparedness, justice and social security who are very good and do a lot of good, but the environments are too small, you interact too little, and the knowledge doesn't get out, and then you get too low. That's exactly why the government, with our support, has also gone in for us to have a structural debate on higher education and research, where we look at the whole field in general. In fact, it is too small for small environments, they are too robust for research in general, and then this environment designates itself especially in an area where there is simply a significant need for coordination. Then I fully agree that social security and preparedness embrace so far and so wide that it covers most areas of research – there can be no ambition – in the same way that those who set up the Defence Research Institute to defend the country may also have a very broad approach to it. They don't definitely cover 100 pst, either. But bringing together the main areas and the large selected areas in this field within one institution I think could be a way to improve the quality and build an environment on which the Research Council will next be able to shed funds and get good applications. In the second round, Horizon 2020 will also provide even better coverage. And with all due respect for Norwegian research environments: we still have a little bit left to pick up there in relation to how much money we spend on it. I am delighted to hear both the debate now between the various parties on Stortinget and to continue with what we are doing together. I think that if we can get a little bit out of the box of traditional political wrangling, we might find some solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e786	I would really like to thank the interpellant for the feedback on the article. She herself points to what is really the main challenge as well as the lack of research in this area, namely that the large preparedness and vulnerability picture is very fragmented. It's about the police, it's about health, it's about fire, it's about municipalities, county councils and county councillors, and there's a lot of people who have shares in this subject. It also complicates getting a professional community to have expertise in this field, but you might help to stimulate some environments to get a kind of overall look at research in which areas we have the most demanding vulnerability, and how we can better solve it. So it should also be said that there is a lot of good work done in this area today. For example, although the trade unions are quite small, they are ICT security research at Gjøvik is an important contribution. They also cooperate closely with, for example: NorSIS, which has its own professional environment on ICT, which is important. So I think we should stress that even though we have some small trade unions and we should have researched more, it does a lot of good work. What has been a little demanding is actually to experience that in many ways you have thought that research has not been so important in this area. This has probably led to the absence of a tradition of good research in the field of social security and preparedness. Building this up – not from the bottom, but not so far away, either – is a demanding task. The first one has to get in place, is a strategy for how you want to think in the future. I think it's important then to think both in the short term and in the long term. The short-term solution is to secure research in the areas where we know there are established knowledge gaps, and where we know that as a society we depend on having more concrete knowledge before implementing changes. In the longer term, efforts can then be made to ensure more robust professional environments nationally. But it is also important to bear in mind that there are good international trade unions in some of these areas. Some of the challenges have been that even the research initially available has not been used sufficiently as a basis for the actions to be carried out in the field of social security and preparedness. There this government has really taken up the glove, just to make sure we're going to be knowledge-based in that approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e797	First, I would like to thank the representative of Aasen for addressing a very important challenge to society as such. Justice is, I shouldn't say the most important, but it's an important pillar of our civilised society. It is therefore incredibly important that, as politicians and as a society, we are concerned that what is happening in the field of justice is in line with what we otherwise believe is right, and with the knowledge we otherwise have. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has signalled – and he has done so in the class struggle before – that he sees both the holes in the field of research and is willing to go in and see how he can find solutions to this. In the field of justice, the Minister has explained well in this draft budget, and the Ministry of Justice has also reduced the objectives for the field of justice. I think that might be good, and that might be difficult. In any case, it is essential that the objectives pursued are followed up with knowledge of how best to achieve them and what results actually drive the whole service towards those objectives. Then you have to have good development cycles. One must have environments that see the benefits of researching our practices, and that there is a formation of theory on what is the basis of our practice. I think that both the representative of Aasen and the Minister of Justice gave a good account of the fragmented institutions that are currently researching all that is involved in the field of justice. It may be a good point to gather more of that research activity, but I also think that some of the things that are important in building that culture in these institutions are looking at the attitudes that form the basis for letting research into their own systems. The justice field as such is a pretty closed field, prisons are probably the last totalitarian system we have left in our society. That is why – and precisely because of this – it is incredibly important that we have critical research into what is happening within prison walls and within the service, also in order to create confidence in the population in view of what is actually happening, so that we can be sure that it is within the limits we otherwise want in our field of justice. Inger Louise Valle was a Minister of Justice who really took hold of what was of old attitudes — one can call it prejudice or views on a criminal policy — and took some action on the basis of the actual knowledge of society around and the new research that was then available that humaneness in the field of justice would also apply, for example. in criminal custody. In the class struggle we can also read that the Minister of Justice agrees with what both the Research Council and the Head of Police College say there is a great need for research in the sector. He signals long-termity, and I think that's good. On the one hand, one might think that long-termity means that it takes a long time before there is money – that is not good. The other way of thinking is that the field of research should have predictability, that there should be certainty that research should be carried out over time on important issues in the field of justice. When the Minister of Justice now signals to Stortinget that he is coming up with a strategy, a research strategy, I take it to heart that in this strategy both the two conditions lie – there is money on the table, and there are long-term strategies for improving the field of research in the field of justice. And then, finally, I want to draw some parallels to health, which I know best from my professional practice. In some research areas, there is very close cooperation between users, user organisations, including theoretical research, and I would like to hear if the Minister of Justice can give some signals as to whether this perspective is also part of the research strategy that comes to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e814	The interpellant's questions are interesting first and foremost because they put searchlights on a topic that should concern us, but also because it forces us to reflect on the very premise of the question. It is enough, as the Council of State said, to agree widely on the need for research funding for this sector, but it is also not possible to look completely blindly at the figures pointed out by the inter-pellant. Indeed, there is so much research that is relevant to the police and the justice sector, but that may not be shown again in their budgetary data or statistics. How, for example, to do this. categorize all the important research done on criminal law issues? How do you categorize all the research done on criminology, on legal sociology – or on police law research? In fact, the main research breakthroughs for the police can come in completely different fields. It may be through the Swedish Defence Research Institute or through the Institute for Defence Studies. It might as well be something that comes through business, where R & D funds in some post have led to a completely breakthrough in technology that the police can use in their daily lives. I am not saying this to minimize the completely legitimate and relevant points from the interpellant that police work and methods must have the best possible research evidence. I think it's absolutely vital that we raise our eyes and look at society's total research effort, because there's every reason to be optimistic. It is positive that the government budget that has been presented has an increase of 2.1 billion. kr at the top of an already comprehensive research budget. This is a political priority that we know is well received in research environments. I am absolutely sure that this is an effort that will benefit the justice sector and the police. The real challenge is to move the research we now get, out of academic circles, out of the bookshelves, out of the meeting rooms and into the police's everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e823	First, I will also be allowed to thank and praise the interpellant for addressing an important topic. Especially happy is the fact that politicians who are engaged in research or who are in this committee are also involved in other fields. We appreciate that. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. As others have stressed, it is very good work that is already in progress. I want to draw out a little bit the same thing as the previous speakers. For the police analysis, the need for more research is underlined, and perhaps not least so is also part of the consultation responses, and the pressure must continue. But what we also need to be concerned about is that one teacher of each other, learns from mistakes, learns from the research that has come, and contributes to knowledge-raising. I see that in the 2015 state budget, which I have carefully started to read, it comes, for example. to the extent that the higher prosecution authority is concerned about the quality of police investigations — without any concrete plan, or objectives, of how to increase the quality of investigations, such as: are in criminal custody and in the field of social security and preparedness. Another example: police lawyers say in their consultation response to the Police Analysis that they perceive that there is little room for further development as a prosecution lawyer. I think that's an interesting topic, also seen in the light of previous speeches, because we all agree that we need to increase our skills, and we need to help you get, for example. further training. The police lawyers suggested in their hearing opinion that this should be made mandatory. If you look at the Police College, there are few applicants for the offers to prosecutors, and as the police lawyers also point out, it is enough because the pressure is too high that you do not have time to do so, that the employer does not provide support for it, or that you do not receive approval from managers. Here is a quote from the hearing opinion: ‘Both training in the field of functional investigation management and the continuing training of prosecutors must be made compulsory for prosecutors, for example by the transition from being a police agent to becoming a police lawyer.’ This is an example that I think it's important to get along with. Increasing the skills needed must be done on the basis of research. I would like to include another example: the Action Plan against violence in close relations shows that, with funding from the Nordic Council of Ministers, there is a project cooperation between the different Nordic countries to share experience with security planning and risk assessment tools on issues related to violence in close relations. It's very good, and on the basis of this has, among other things, Sweden and Norway made use of the risk assessment tool SARA as a measure to target the fight against violence in close relations better than in the past. This should have been implemented in all police districts during 2013. So JURK came with a report in the fall that revealed that there was only one in 27 police districts that had started the implementation of SARA in the first half of 2014. Then I think that when we can't implement these types of tools, which one agrees that one needs, then there's still a big job to do on that piece too. Crime is becoming more complicated, it is becoming more advanced, and therefore there is a need for research. But in many areas, we have a long way to go to get the experience, the knowledge, the learning that already exists, and get it out, so we succeed even better in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e845	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate. It follows from the government's proposals to the government budget that the government is working on social security and preparedness as a whole. From a chain perspective, it is important to have sufficient knowledge and understanding of risks and vulnerabilities, to pursue effective and targeted prevention, to have adequate preparedness and crisis management capabilities, to restore functions through destruction, and to learn from experience and events. This puts words in key areas where skills need to be enhanced. But words in a staging proposition are not enough, you also have to put this into action in the organisations. A debate on competence in the sector is therefore important, and it is good that the Minister of Justice and Security now signals that he is in the process of developing his own strategy. In the case of the emergency unit, interdisciplinary competence and opportunities for continuing training are central. In this context, I would like to refer to an inter-pelling debate in Stortinget this spring, attended by the representative Jenny Klinge, on the establishment of a joint follow-up training course for the emergency units. I hope the Minister of Justice will follow up this initiative in the preparation of his strategy plan. Further training must be possible, as pointed out by the representative Ropstad. The responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Defence extends over a wide range of emergency units. The similarity is that they run until when crises occur and that they have an important function in preventing their occurrence. Research into why crime occurs, why fires occur, and how to interact when crises occur, or before they occur, is necessary. The answers are not only in experience learning but also in research into future developments. The area of preparedness is a sector in which the consequences of making mistakes can be extra large. It is important that there are no situations where individual police districts or fire services refrain from sending participants for measures of competence, having regard to the economy. In this respect, the Ministry of Justice has an important coordinating role in ensuring a wide range of skills across the sector. The development of the future police, fire and rescue services is more than discussing the number of police districts, the number of fire districts or the number of ambulance areas. It is through increased knowledge that we create the good professional environments and the good emergency services that can make the good strategic decisions. To use the police as an example: it is important that they do not lag behind the criminals. The police must have the best knowledge. They are the ones who are supposed to be in front of those who commit criminal acts, not the opposite, and are dependent on plans and strategies, but also on research-based knowledge to achieve these goals. The new organisation map is not an answer. Since I am from Uppland, and Gjøvik has already been brought forward, I also have to highlight the work that is there. It is a multidisciplinary work started at the University of Gjøvik, Center for Cyber and Information Security. This centre shall be a world-class research and training centre for information and cybersecurity with a core group of 25 researchers. The initiative comes from the University of Gjøvik and is interdisciplinary. Defence and civil society, both private and public, such as telecommunications, banking and energy, are also strongly involved. I hope they get a lot of excitement and support in the future, so that they can contribute to increased awareness and knowledge of online crime. This is also an environment that attracts international attention, and that's why we can't establish that only things are big enough, that's good. I also think the representative Frølich earlier described the complexity in a very good way. The word 'robust' has become a find word for the government: Robust has become the word 'big'. The Minister of Justice said that with fewer and larger police districts it will be easier to deal with such questions, and then I really want to put the question back to the Minister of Justice: does he have proper cover to say that? I want to refer to a chronicle by former police director Hanne Kristin Rohde, who warns against such a drawing in the police, and I guess it's also good for fire and rescue. There is no evidence that a centralisation of police forces is revitalising the police. It just creates bigger police bureaucracy. In the opinion of the Centre Party, research-based knowledge in the justice and preparedness sector is therefore important. But there is no guarantee for good research to be co-located.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e866	The interpellant addresses a very important issue. However, if research efforts are to be discussed first in the field of justice, it is important not to have too narrow an approach. Indeed, there is a great deal of research in other social disciplines, of which the field of justice is of absolute benefit. The representative Frølich mentioned legal sociology and criminology. It may be timely to remind you of Eilert Sundt, who started Oslo Working Society in its time and is considered the country's first sociologist. His analysis of poverty is very good today, and we know that there is a link between poverty and crime. The implementation of penalties today is based on traditions, but it also has scientific evidence in research carried out in this area. The future criminal execution needs more knowledge about the risk of relapse for convicted offenders — what works and what does not work. But today, there is very good research material on what causes some to become criminals and others not. It is an over-representation of people with growth problems, drug problems, mental distress, unemployment, inadequate schooling and education. This is research-driven, which we can use in the development of criminal services today. As I said, we need more knowledge, and we're getting more and more knowledge. In 2014, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress presented a report that shows that violence in close relationships is far more widespread than what we first had reason to assume. The Ministry of Justice continues to fund the Research Council's programme for well-being, work and migration, which is a very important research programme in the field of immigration policy. In the field of social security, 4 million are mentioned. kr with which the University of Gjøvik was strengthened in 2014 in the field of ICT, and NOVA was strengthened by 10 million in 2014. kr for their research work, a five-year project, on violence in close relationships. We are also so lucky that we have a police high school that has the ambition to be the leading research community in the Nordic region in terms of police science research. They include: two interesting projects on which they are now researching – the police organisation, formal and informal structures, and police interaction with other community institutions. In the bill on the state budget, the government also reports that the defence and police are now looking at the overall civil protection situation, in order, if possible, to make proposals for co-location in order to address this important area of justice policy in a more comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e881	Thank you to everyone for a good debate. I think this has been interesting, and I think it's exciting to hear different perspectives on this issue, which I really feel there has been a need to discuss here. I agree with a lot of what has been said, not least what the representatives Frölich and Elvenes mentioned, that there is a lot of relevant research in other areas. Of course, there's a lot of good research from the institution a little further up the street here, the legal faculty, in many different subjects. But it has led us to believe that we have research that covers the whole field covered by the police and social and emergency work, and I think that might have been the sleeping cushion. In the field of preparedness, there has been no equivalent research. That's where the defense has been doing its job. We have a cross-sectoral problem there, to put it that way, where we have been careful to use the resources of defence in civil society for historical reasons and in particular for good reasons. Then we are at a point that I think is quite important to come up with, and that is that Norway is very sectored and follows the sector principle in all areas through the departments. That's something I support, and that I think is good. This also leads to a major coordination problem in Norway. These included: one of the major findings of the July 22 report, that coordination and cooperation are far too poor. I am almost absolutely certain that we have enough resources gathered on the emergency page in Norway, in terms of fire, police, civil defence, defence, etc., as several have mentioned. But they don't work research-based enough, and they don't work together enough. That's where we have great challenges. Is that really being researched? No, I don't think it does, at least not in a way that makes it come to those who make decisions, and then we're at another point that more people have raised, namely, using the research. It's hard to deal with in all sectors, not just this. Then there's one word that can be used about it, and that's knowledge competence, using knowledge, training people so that they're always able to adopt new knowledge that comes. Today, it's not like if you're educated at a college or a university, you're trained and you can work with what you've learned every year. No, you have to be competent, and that means you have to have the ability to acquire research, for example, even in areas where you are not an expert. I think this has been a good debate. I hope the Minister of Justice has got good ideas and been inspired to make a very good strategy that we all look forward to reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e893	The size always inspires me, and so has it this time. I would like to thank what has gradually evolved into a fairly broad thematic debate with many different approaches to the issue. I would just like to make a brief reference to the fact that the Ministry of Knowledge overview of the overall R & D effort in the Ministry of Justice and Defence now shows that it is 75 million. kr, which is a nominal increase from last year. It's more than what's shown in the budget when you look at the whole line collectively. So I also believe that the debate has made what in many ways is the challenge in this field, namely that it is not just a fragmented research environment, but it is a fragmented issue very often also. There is a need to ensure an increase in skills in some small areas, but it does not have to be at the expense of the large research perspective. After all, the government has also put itself in one area, for example. a new ICT security vulnerability selection, which is itself a solid area of preparedness and security, in which a lot of international research has been done, but in which we have not been very specific in the Norwegian context in relation to revealing the vulnerabilities we have. I've got a lot of good and interesting ideas for what's going to be the Ministry of Justice and Defence's research strategy. So I have not – and I would like to clarify this in relation to what perhaps was expected by the representative Henriksen – been concerned that this should be a matter for the Stortinget, but it is our way of dealing with our future research focus within the framework we have. It's also a challenge. Because the overall approach has not been taken in the past, research appropriations have also followed different policy priorities in a perhaps a little too unsystematic way. Having a strategy that shows what are the most important areas of activity, and how to prioritise this in the future, I think, is very important. Then there was a discussion related to robustness and research environments and professional evidence to claim that robustness has any significance for research. I think one might find a lot of research on how important it is that not small, isolated disciplines are just concerned with their little ones, but that they look and are part of something larger. It is also crucial that we succeed in researching social security and preparedness and in the justice sector, that we also rely on research done by other countries, by other robust professional environments, also outside Norway. I would argue that having some robustness in handling, whether it is the handling of research materials or the implementation of the knowledge you have based on research, is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e906	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e922	Legal certainty, the legal protection against arbitrary conviction, is one of the very pillars of democracy. It is one of the basic pillars for us to have respect for the decisions and the authority to be held in national institutions. The decisions we're talking about here are not minor decisions. These are decisions that can have to do with life and death, or that are very big in any human life. We have had many debates in this Chamber on how to apply the principles of the rule of law. It's important that we have a rule of law that is both law-enforceable, effective and also fair. The question raised after the Legal Affairs Committee's procedural group presented the report on the findings presented by the President in the Interpellation text is: do we have a system here that is legal, effective and fair? Then I believe that it is our job as politicians to raise that debate and measure our principles against the practice and reality. Can we measure this against the laws adopted in this Chamber and the political decisions taken in this Chamber? The list of speakers to date is not impressive and great in relation to the view of legal security debates in this room, but I am not losing heart for that reason. We who work in this field have received long-standing feedback from both lawyers, people who work in receptions of asylum – and others – that sometimes they perceive the decisions as a lottery of life and death, where dishonesty sometimes pays off, and where they are not properly presented. Based on that, and based on the report available, I have some questions for the Council of State. This report was submitted by the Norwegian Legal Association as early as August, and it shed light on the principal aspects of our entire foreign field. Here you got help from the leading lawyers in this area not only to look at individual matters, but to look at the principal parts of this. So my first question is whether the Council of State has a view of the report that has already been presented. Just to say a little bit about the background: the law firm's procedural group went not only through a few cases; they went through 1,755 cases, where all the documents were read. From that review, there were some weaknesses that would be tested for the judicial system. This isn't about 74 cases isolated, it's about 74 cases that represent the weaknesses found after a review of 1,755 cases. They then found reason to raise some of the issues in principle and to look at both weaknesses in the proceedings and wrong decisions in the light of the laws and regulations adopted in this case. The group has demonstrated a major weakness that I believe the Council of State is probably aware of, namely that the Foreign Affairs Department has increasingly evolved into a state in the country by the fact that an overwhelming majority of asylum cases are made by the principal — which was not meant when these cases were adopted in the Stortinget — that UNE does not act as a ‘court-like body’, which is a politically used concept here, and as it was originally intended, and that wrong decisions are taken without any legal review and that UNE lacks child-care competence. What's startled me a little bit, when you present a report like that, is what the attitude of criticism has been met. I believe it is good that some tests and controls the state and the state's work. We have the National Audit Office, but we also have the professional groups that are going to do it. This is a background I and the Council of State had in previous years as members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. But when such serious criticism is promoted, I am quite disappointed – yes, also a little shocked – by the way UNE has met this, calling the whole report misleading. On the home page they say that it ‘does not provide a comprehensive description of reality’. And on the other hand, ‘The report is characterised by too strong conclusions on a spin-off basis, a bias in the presentation of previous UN evaluations, and the omission of relevant information.’ The ‘spink basis’ is in itself easy to prove when we see that there are over 1750 issues at the bottom. What I am perhaps most disappointed and amazed at is that UNE refers to this as a ‘savory and a loss for UNE’. It's not government institutions that win over people. The fact that state institutions talk about sea – when they are going to manage a regulation, adopted in this case – as winning over other institutions, I think, is petty. I also think that when the group we're talking about also receives the legal security price from the Legal Association for the job they've done, you might want to be a little bit more curious and have a little better dialogue on how we can do things better in the future. The denominator should admit that we actually have some challenges in this field, and that it's good that someone puts it in focus and shows that we have problems. I know that the Council of State has also had similar positions when we were put together in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. So my second question is, what does the Council of State think about the weaknesses that the procedural group has shown? This isn't a crazy foundation. This shows constant weaknesses, and it's not like anyone wins over individuals, or someone wins in the game. It says something about a position in a state institution that I also think the Council of State should include a settlement. It is also said that UNE has turned around in many of the cases, and that it proves that when the law firm's procedural group took it up, it would probably have changed anyway. If you look at these matters, they are converted after the application notice was sent and a case has been opened, and some have actually been converted after the main negotiations have been completed, but before the decision has been taken. Saying that it is not the court that has amended the decision, I believe that it is wrong. We in the Left also want to challenge the Council of State on some of the conclusions of the report. It says that the foreign student should not have had a new appeal board for asylum policy, or that UNE should perhaps have been replaced by others, including a court. I know this is debates that have also taken place in the Party of Governments, and this is probably true of most other parties on the Stortinget, but it is clear that here we have an improvement potential. My question is: does the UN Council share the view of the report, and should we also look at other ways to organise it, or is everything perfect like today? The last thing I want to address – for the need for legal aid that has been commented on in the report, the representative Nybø will address – is the need for countermeasures, i.e. the need to have the opportunity to present his case. In the state of law in Norway, this is very strong — it says so strongly that you are exposed to prison, we have a procedure related to the possibility of meeting in person and presenting their case. It often doesn't take long. Prison meetings over here in the street often last only 15 minutes, so people have their case. Meeting face to face and being allowed to present their case not only through legal documents written by others, is actually an important part of our entire rule of law. There are often questions about whether our system, which is so paper-based, is correct in terms of the group we are dealing with here. So my third question is whether the Council of State sees that we have challenges with regard to opposition and with regard to the need for the parties to face up to themselves and present their case, and that it could have increased legal certainty in the process without increasing bureaucracy, and without increasing the time it takes to deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e964	It is important to ensure the legal certainty of citizens and it is important to ensure the legal certainty of persons seeking protection in Norway. I therefore think this is an important and correct topic for the representative, Trine Skei Grande, and I also believe – to confirm it quickly – that it is good that the Legal Affairs Committee and other independent organisations look at the foreign administration's handling of matters with critical eyes. This applies in general. And my fundamental view of administration is: that, regardless of what kind of commitment or intention should be at the root, some people go into and look at how the authorities exercise their authority, is a crucial part of our democracy. In addition, this specific report, like most other reports, provides a basis for bringing together some learning points, and the report is, of course, taken seriously. That being said, it is also important to ensure that criticism is based as objectively as possible. UNE has carried out a review of the report of the Procedural Group, which refers to the inclusion of 57 cases of asylum from the sample of the Procedural Group. Across half of these ended up in judgment. The cases referred to by the representative Skei Grande were converted by UN on their own initiative because they felt that the facts had changed along the way – not because the original decision was wrong. So you can evaluate it with the look you want to assess it. It is also common for UNE to make decisions, and that happens in quite a large number. Then there are a number of examples of cases in which UNE has converted its own decisions after the state has been given jurisdiction, and that the Procedural Group also considers it to be a support for the foreigner, which is correct as a final result, but not as a result of a judgment in the court. In my opinion, it can be interpreted in two ways. On the one hand, one can take the starting point that Trine Skei Grande had, where it was kind of viewed as a problem, because the conversion came after the verdict was passed, even if the judgment did not go in the favour of the foreigner. On the other hand, it can also be interpreted as an input into the debate on taking a case’s status seriously, regardless of where in the proceedings it is. So these are some examples where the state has ‘winned’ in court, but subsequently converted for the benefit of the foreigner. It's like a good set of legal certainty eyes. Less than half of the cases that ended with the final judgment of the proceedings group ended in UNE's disfavor. From a broad perspective, it means that the stranger won the court in less than 1 pst. of all the matters dealt with by the procedural group. I would also like to emphasise in this context that according to the report, the procedural group used strict practice of the requirement for a case of principle and procedure when they chose matters. This may mean that cases may not necessarily be a representative sample of UNE’s cases in general. A total of up to 250 cases of asylum have been decided by law in the courts since 2011. At UNE, the State received some 75 pst. of these matters. Therefore, it can be claimed that assessing legal certainty in the light of the claim that a conversion rate of 65 is somewhat unhealthy if you look at the history of the cases that have been dealt with earlier by the courts. I would also like to point out that I think it is difficult to argue strongly because it is in itself a legal security problem that cases are being converted into court. I believe it bears witness to the fact that we have a legal state that works, and that it works in a satisfactory way. On the other hand, you can ask whether the fact that there are so few cases that end up in court is itself a legal security problem. Here too, if you look at the outcome of the cases that have been dealt with in court, UNE has been supported in two thirds of the cases that have been raised since 2011. It's often the cases in which there are initially complicated balances, which end up in the court. It has therefore not been given that legal certainty in itself is improved by the fact that several cases are brought before the courts. I think it is important to assess the use of society's resources against any benefits of having more cases in court. In addition, there is an opportunity to bring an action before the court after there has been a two-institutional administrative procedure. In my view, this means that there are not enough points of view to claim that, as such, the management of foreigners does not ensure the legal certainty of asylum seekers in a good way. Previous reviews have also been externally related to the activities of the UN. Nor do they give any indication that UNE does not adequately ensure the legal certainty of the complainants. As Trine Skei Grande pointed out in both the interpellation and his intervention, a majority of the cases were decided by the Procedural Group to settle, cases decided by UNE and the Court of Justice, decided by a denominator, but without the personal presence of the members of the panel. In general, it is a rather important perspective to have in mind when discussing legal certainty and the possibility and ability of attendance. It also needs to be seen in the light of the other arrangements in the country of law, and the possibility and right of personal attendance to process your own case in the course of the procedure. Under the law, these matters can be decided by a facilitator if the case does not raise significant questions of doubt. The fact that a decision is subsequently converted does not necessarily mean that there was not a proper assessment initially without the involvement of playwrights in the first place. Some of these cases are amended because there are new facts that have emerged after the original decision has been taken. It is important that legal certainty is well safeguarded also in the cases decided by the facilitator alone. In order to contribute to this, these cases shall be investigated by a professional secretariat, such as: balances its assessments on practical notes, comprehensive information from the country information of the foreign manager, etc. Although I believe that one today cannot say that there is any reason to be concerned about the legal security of asylum seekers in UNE proceedings and complaints, I would like to stress that we are always concerned about having the best possible foreign administration overall. The work we are now doing to assess how the complaint will be in the future is important. The Government is working on the follow-up to the Cooperation Agreement between the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left through an investigation into a system of administrative courts in the field of foreign affairs. We believe it is important to establish a solid, professional basis for deciding on such a future complaint. And regardless of what it will be like in the future, I believe that we have reason to believe collectively that legal certainty is adequately ensured by UNE today, both the safeguarding of the legal security of asylum seekers and the enforcement of the legislation that will ensure us against the abuse of the asylum institution. So the representative Skei Grande asked a question at the end about whether everything is perfect. I can cancel that. Everything's not perfect. I don't think you'll ever get into any administrative treatment in a situation where everything is perfect. These are important decisions, and it is important that proper decisions are taken. That is also why we are now going through the complaint procedure and looking at other ways of organising it that will strengthen the follow-up both to legal certainty and to the decisions taken in this Chamber, in order to ensure that we make the right decisions when asylum matters are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e992	It is a piece from the chairman of the control committee in the previous period to the Minister of Justice today. I understand that a Minister of Justice will defend his units, and I understand that a Minister of Justice cannot declare that there is no legal certainty in Norway in such an important field. But it would have been interesting to know if there was a shadow of doubt that might see across the face of the Minister of Justice when he read the report – if there was any sense that there might have been ‘something rat in the state of Norway’. There are 1,755 things you could have done in court if you wanted to do it, and not least had resources and so many volunteers who would have been willing to use the time, as it has been to make this report. It's not a goal to have the most possible cases in our legal system. But I think there's a reason why the council has to take a lot more seriously, when we see that there's things that there's obviously doubt about when you travel them, which is still decided by the head of the denominator alone. This is a field where those who are going to be in Norway first meet the rule of law. These are the decisions they take in Norway as a legal State. This is where we set examples of what kind of ideals we have in our country – what we build our rule of law on. Then you notice that there is one person to sit alone, and you should be able to trust the authority of that person when you come from corrupt regimes, when you come from legal states that don't work – and then this is how we show Norway as a legal state. That's what I think. It should have been the pearl of our legal system, what really showed a non-corrupt, an open and democratic society with a great rule of law. It should have been what people met only when they met Norway as a legal state. These are the things that were principled, which of course were lifted. When so many of them have changed, I think it's strange to compare it with how many things were really changed in court cases. For who is bringing cases before the court today? Well, it's usually good neighbors and friends who collect money to do it. There are socially engaged people around who bring cases to justice now, not an assessment of the legal around it, or an assessment by a trade union, like what we have in this report. What I think is positive in what the Council of State says is that he works in relation to the administrative court. It would have been interesting to know if the Council shares my view, that this should have been one of the fields where we had really shown ourselves at best, when we were going to make important decisions for someone who was going to be possible new Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1005	In general, I believe that we should strive to be at our best at all times, including in these kinds of matters. But when the representative Trine Skei Grande thought that there was a certain difference between me and my time as head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the Stortinget and until now, as Minister of Justice, I think it's actually a little wrong, because in my role as head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, there were two things that were absolutely crucial to me. One was that one should have facts on the table – one should be sure of what was actually the case. The second was that one does not draw conclusions until one actually has it on the table. The work of the Task Force is an important work that everyone is involved in further thinking about this. But at the same time, I think it is important to see that there are some nuances in the factual description that the procedure group is trying to obtain – among others. by looking at what has been the case and the outcome of legal proceedings since 2011. One must also watch, among other things. in view of the fact that the representative of Skei Grande himself deals with trust in the authorities, etc., that these are issues that often develop gradually. Often this means that the information available at the time of the first appeal procedure is too poor, and that there is new evidence in the case, which means that the case should have been dealt with in another way. Then, of course, a few questions can be asked about whether to improve the possibility of presenting the case in the best possible way during the first round of treatment, which will, of course, strengthen the legal certainty of the applicant and, not least, improve the effectiveness of the proceedings in both UDI and UNE. So, in my opinion, it's probably a slightly more nuanced image than the image of the interpellation and the report of the procedural group. But that does not mean, of course, that we do not have the content of the evaluations and recommendations of the procedure group in the work to be done in the future. Then I am concerned that we should have a complaint procedure that is legal, effective and takes care of the concerns and needs that this Chamber believes should be met in addition to that. That is why we intend to follow up the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left to consider any changes to the complaint and to consider the administrative court as an alternative. This also includes the fact that UNE operates in many ways as a kind of administrative court today. And then we'll see how we could possibly do things even better than that. In general, however, I have no reason to say that one should not be satisfied with the job done by UNE – rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1018	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue for debate in the main hall. Legal certainty in general, and especially in relation to vulnerable young people, is fundamental. All administrative bodies deserve to be seen in the cards. The foreign authorities, who manage great power and authority, need to be kept under constant review. We politicians have to correct the course of legislative changes or clarifications when we see that it develops an unfortunate practice. We politicians need to pay particular attention to all the issues that do not have the media's searchlight. The issues that involve single-husbands who don't have muscles to take the fight, who don't have support groups around them – what about them? That's what legal certainty is all about. The Legal Affairs Committee’s review of cases over the period 2007-2014, including cases brought before the courts during that period, has highlighted the need for stricter control also with administrative practices. The Procedural Group has brought some fundamental cases before the judiciary and has contributed to the necessary legal clearance in some areas. The Association of Lawyers therefore deserves tribute for thorough work and for important clarifications. The field of alienation is complex, with all kinds of cases, from those who obviously do not have the right to stay to more complex cases where the degree of discretion is significant. In the most demanding cases, there are many considerations to consider and one must ensure individual treatment. In the foreign field, one is also dependent on an effective procedure, both for the benefit of the applicant himself and for the sake of the State. However, it must never be at the expense of information and legal certainty for individuals. Things involving kids are always demanding. Young people sometimes get harmed by their parents’ unwise decisions and choices. The feelings are strong, and some issues get media attention. We at Stortinget must facilitate equal treatment for all, regardless of whether they have the media searchlight on them or not. That's what's legal certainty. The Legal Affairs Committee further points out in its report that the few applicants for asylum have the opportunity to bring legal proceedings against the State. They point to shortcomings in existing legislation on free movement of goods. Applicants are cut off from financial assistance to legal proceedings, having regard to the fact that their legal certainty has been ensured through the administrative process of the case. I think it might be time to review the practice of the different legislation relating to these kinds of issues. But perhaps the most important thing we can do is to give clear leadership to the foreign agencies on how to practice legislation, as was done in the treatment of the child-breathing notification, as the red-green government presented in 2012. The government presented the notification because it considered that there was a need to clarify how the provision on the relationship of children with Norway should be understood. The aim was to ensure equal treatment and a practice that took into account the best interests of children, in line with the Storting intention. This communication led to changes in UNE’s practice and was used as a legal source. Preliminary surveys the following year showed that UNE converted the decision into 40 p.m. of the cases following the Storing Message. We are totally dependent on the trust in the management track in the foreign field and on ensuring non-discrimination. I don't think the solution is that everyone should be able to try their case in the courthouse with free trial, but we have to make sure that non-discrimination takes place. The Legal Affairs Association’s procedural group also points to weaknesses in the practice of the Foreign Affairs Department as to which cases the head of staff decides alone and which issues should be addressed at the hearing. It's pointed out that practice here is cracking. Then you have to ask yourself whether we from a political point of view have to make some adjustments. If the institution of asylum is to stand over time, we are dependent on the trust of the system. We rely on a non-discrimination of cases and that legal certainty is strong. It should be our common supports, regardless of what kind of immigration policy you want, a strict or liberal. It is people — adults and children — who put their destiny in our hands. In Norway, everyone should be confident that they will receive fair treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1041	This group of lawyers, which has been discussed by many, also reveals a great need for legal assistance and much – let's say – less good legal work being done in these cases. Some reason is that the price of this type of job is low. If you want to get into all the material that lies in these matters and do a good job, it takes longer than what you get paid for. Only today have I received several e-mails from lawyers who say that they are concerned about the legal security of the most vulnerable in our society because they refuse to take these assignments, because those who do such a job must choose either to do a bad job or to work for free on these matters. When the Association of Lawyers and Single Lawyers is so clear that this is a legal security problem, I want to ask the Council of State whether this is known to him and whether he agrees that the need for legal assistance is greater than what is being covered today. Now the government budget, after I understand it, adds up to an increase in the salary of 5 kroner. According to the feedback we receive, it will not cover the salary increase, and is thus a very small increase in the salary rate and will in no way solve the problem we face in these matters. I'm worried when we get such feedback from those out there who say that they can't do a good enough job, that this goes beyond the legal certainty of those who are the weakest in our society. Then, as politicians, we have to think: is it okay that you either get poor legal certainty or that you are dependent on getting a lawyer who is willing to work for free for their case? Is it such that the Council of State expects lawyers to work free of charge for this group in order to maintain a good level of legal certainty? The asylum seekers who come have very different backgrounds and come from very different countries. Many of these have rather poor legal certainty where they come from, they come from societies with low trust in the police, to the judiciary, to authorities for the rest, and that also gives us an extra challenge in terms of ensuring their legal certainty. We in the Left think that it is an independent point that we have in addition to having authorities and lawyers that ensure the legal security of each asylum seeker, we also have non-governmental organisations, such as non-governmental organisations. NOAS, who is also working against these issues and these people. Is the Council of State interested in looking at and discussing legal aid schemes for non-residents and increasing the price of the piece that is currently being given to lawyers working on these matters? And the Council of State is interested in strengthening others who are involved in legal aid, for example. voluntary organisations such as NOAS?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1056	Let me start by saying thank you to the interpellant to address this matter. This is a matter that is close to my heart, and is one of the things that I see as the most problematic in our overall justice today, namely the lack of legal certainty for people who are seeking to deal with their affairs in the foreign administration. Let me start with that. The second is that I would like to thank all the lawyers and the law firms who have set up in recent years to point out this significant defect and the significant weakness of the Norwegian court. Let me, as the third point, stress the following: I am glad that the Minister of Justice says that he is working on assessing a more administrative structure, which is what they have in Sweden. I can stress to the Minister of Justice that when the Progress Party, SV and the rest of the Municipal Committee were visiting Sweden to look at this, there was a broad consensus between the representatives of the Progress Party and the SV that this was a better system – not necessarily because more people are allowed to stay, but because of two important things: it strengthens the legal certainty of the individuals who are being treated and strengthens the legitimacy of the decisions taken. Both parts are essential if we are concerned with good legal certainty. I should have liked to have an answer from the Minister of Justice when he realizes that he has completed this assessment, because we need to know when to deal with how we proceed with this matter. But let me say it like this: the Rosen to the Minister of Justice is stopping there, and I think it's right to be clear on a couple of things: I think the Minister of Justice is taking too easy on a few things, and I think he's using statistics in a wrong way. Let me start with what this is about: this is about what I thought was one of the pronounced nuclear forces of the Progress Party, the little man against the state. In these matters, we see that the little man is being overrun by the state. In the case of 70 cases that have been dealt with, there are barely 50 cases in which the state changes its perception of what is the right decision, at least the Minister of Justice should be clear enough to admit the following: In these barely 50 cases, individuals have experienced legal security weaknesses in the Norwegian system. The Minister of Justice should admit that. These people would not have their legal certainty guaranteed if it had not been for law firms to volunteer and free help these people. Just the fact that so many cases from the group that were picked out reached when they were treated in court, should in itself mean that you were more concerned than you were. To mention that 1 pst. I took note of their cases as a perverted use of statistics, because there was only a small sample of the cases that were involved, and it is clear that here it is about which issues can be tested. It's true that it's probably the best cases, but here we're talking about testing legality, because the court has said that there's a lot of administrative discretion here. That's why I think it's right to underline it. The other thing that I think it is important to say, and that worries me about the follow-up to legal certainty in this matter, is that the Minister of Justice, in his foreign budgets, has focused on broadcasting and transport, but has not set up legal certainty and strengthening legal certainty as an independent point. I think that is a weakness, and I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice how he responds to the criticism I am now making. The third thing that I want to stress, and which is important to be told, is the following: the significant difference between how the foreign student deals with matters and how a court deals with matters, is that one has a bipartite system in the court, where both parties get to give their input and a judge concludes. In foreign affairs, it is the same agency that both prepares and concludes the cases, and then you do not have sufficient legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1077	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this interpellant on a very important topic. It's about legal certainty in the foreign administration, which many of us have been concerned about for a long, long time. Reference is made to the Legal Affairs Committee's procedural group, which has undergone a wide range of cases, and where weaknesses have been found that, in my view, are very serious. Some of the criticisms have been that UNE has become a state of its own, that an overwhelming majority of asylum cases are decided by the denominator alone, that UNE does not act as a judicial body, as it was supposed to be, that wrong decisions are taken without legal review, and that UNE lacks child-care competence. This is a serious finding, which I hope the Council of State and the majority here on the Grand Council take seriously and get to do something about it. I fully agree with the representative, Heidi Greni, who is concerned that it is not just the issues that get media attention, which should in some way be indicative. But at the same time, I would like to point out that very many of these issues have received the media searchlight precisely because they point to weaknesses in our management of them. Then it's our job as politicians to use these issues to make changes to the law and regulation, so that we get better equipped to deal with such matters in the future. So it's also pointed to this with free legal aid. I have to say that when you cut appropriations to organisations that give free legal aid in these matters, that is not the way to go. But now it's not to be said that it's this government that started it. The previous government, where the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party ruled, began to cut in e.g. appropriations for NOAS, which used some of the appropriations to provide legal aid and legal assistance to asylum seekers. So this is something you started earlier. It is alarming that we choose to cut appropriations for organisations that are helping to strengthen legal certainty. I hope we can do something about that. I hope that the message in this interpellation is something that the Council of State takes with it, because we all have to be concerned that we have a secure and safe handling of asylum matters. I would like to point out in particular that so many cases are decided by the principal alone, without giving the opportunity for personal presence, for example. That may require more resources, but I think that only this one point is something you should look at. I hope that the dialogue between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left will be good in this area in the future. We're all well served that we have a system that makes people feel secure that they've both been heard and have been properly evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1092	First of all, I would like to thank all those who took part in the debate, but I think it is quite serious that when such a serious report on legal certainty is presented in Norway, the two largest parties choose not to participate. That neither the Labour Party nor the Right does there seem to be any matter to discuss, I think is quite serious and worrying. This is not about immigration policy. This is not about who will be. This is about the rules that we adopt in this room, actually being properly practiced, that the international conventions that we have signed and agreed to are properly enforced. I have to say that there are other parts of Norwegian administration that are being subjected to dramatic much less criticism, which achieves incredibly much more noise. It amazes me greatly. So I just want to say that making good legal solutions sometimes can be expensive, but it can also be cheaper. Having a good system linked to the institution of asylum, letting people have the opportunity to present their cases, can be very economical in relation to the system we are now using – with an infinite number of anchors and with a system where lawyers with the most harsh use of words in their letters are preferred. Or you switch lawyers a lot of times, you don't understand the system, or you don't get good information about which explanation to give the first time. And then I come to two of my main points and challenges to the Council of State at the end of today. I think we should show our rule of law at the best in this area. The important thing is that we have a legal state that works. But when people come from corrupt regimes, they should have an opportunity to get objective information that does not come from the state, and that volunteers here may be able to contribute in a much better and cheaper way than what you can through state roads. That's how we can save money, but we can also make our system more secure. The second question I ask the Council of State is the same as Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – here, I think, really, the extremes of Norwegian asylum policy are more agreeable than much of the ‘mainstream’, namely that we must have a new system – if the Council of State can say anything about progress in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1104	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it is important to stress what the interpellant himself stressed in his last speech, namely that this is primarily about the framework within which policy should be pursued, not about policy. We need to ensure that we have a legal framework in this area as in all other areas. That is why I am also very enthusiastic about the commitment shown in the matter, because it is – I believe – quite a broad political agreement that a person should ensure legal certainty for asylum seekers in the course of an asylum process. One has to ensure it in the best possible way, but then one should also be aware of what is the overall picture of the facts, not only relate to the report of the procedural group, but also look at other external evaluations of this system, and look at what practices from the cases that have been in the court have shown. Then you have to use it into the job that's to be done now, to see if it's going to change. There is no doubt that there are more people who have wanted to increase the use of administrative courts, not least in the foreign field, and that is why we are now working on the work that is following the cooperation agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties. I do not dare to give any end date, but the work is started. It's a pretty big and complicated challenge, and it's a completely different direction from the ordinary governance that we have today. It also means that we need to have a good foundation to add up to any changes in it. I also agree with the representative of Skei Grande that an even greater degree of information is being provided to asylum seekers through non-governmental organisations than today – one already does today. There is no reason why a person should not contribute to stimulating non-governmental organisations to do this job to an even greater extent than is the case today, but they are already used as a precursor for information provided to asylum seekers coming to Norway. I want to stress, and it should really be unnecessary, that the government is very concerned about ensuring legal certainty in general, including in this area, but I also think it is important that some examples themselves do not help us to assume that legal certainty is not ensured. I still believe that UNE will ensure the legal certainty of asylum seekers in a satisfactory way, while at the same time I believe it is important and proper to have progress in the follow-up work we are going to do under the cooperation agreement between the four parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1111	Case No. So 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1117	We are then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1713	The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1726	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has reason to believe that the Christian People's Party is voting against here too. The vote boards showed that there were 89 votes in favour of the law title and the law in its entirety and 6 votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1733	President, I pressed the button, but nothing came up here. I'm very much for this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1738	The President knows that. We'll have a new vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1750	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 2–4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-14.ana.ud318e1828	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
