ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e55	The grand meeting is legally set. We then resume yesterday's meeting, because we have to carry out yesterday's voting, as some of the representatives' screens did not function satisfactorily yesterday. For voting in cases No. 11–16 see final report of 8 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e60	As a result, yesterday's map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e63	The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Line Kisses Vennesland, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of Presidents of the European People's Party, Mr Morten Wold, on 9 and 10 December and by Mr Inbjørg Amanda Gösskenen, on 10 and 11 December – both to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For East-Agder County: Lene Langemyr 10th and 11th December For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas 9th and 10th December
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e100	Tone Heimdal Brataas is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e106	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sylvi Graham. – Other proposals are not available, and Sylvi Graham is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e159	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Right 45 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and six lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e170	I think it's been a long time since the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has had more meetings than we've had in the last year. The themes include: host: the humanitarian disaster and the deployment of Norwegian frigates to pick up chemical weapons from Syria ISIL’s advance and military contribution to Iraq, the stepping down of Norwegian forces’ contribution to Afghanistan and the continuation and strengthening of special forces’ training in Kabul Ukraine crisis and restrictive measures against Russia contributing to the disaster in the Central African Republic contribution of the Defence for the EU’s operation in Mali in the South Sudan bombing of Gaza Norwegian contribution to the fight against the ebola epidemic in West Africa summit in the NATO terrorist threat in summer and the general terror picture in the fall; [[CRU]] Many issues have been discussed, many decisions have been taken, and the Stortinget has been consulted and has been largely associated with the government on the main decisions. This dialogue is particularly important in a small country. I would also like to give my recognition to the three Councils for this good cooperation. But we could agree on much more. We should agree on one percent in aid to the world's poor and not set in motion a political theater every harvest. In the United Kingdom, conflicts between the right and the left are traditionally greater than in Norway, but through a deep economic crisis, they have agreed on a certain level of assistance, and they say that this consensus has led to a better debate on the quality of aid. We also need that in Norway – agree on a level of dignity and discuss how our assistance can be used more strategically. But, of course, the budget got better after the Christian People's Party and the Left got to say their own. That's 150 million. kr below what we think is the goal of achieving 1 pst., but it is not far from the aid target. We should also agree on good basic funding for more UN organisations and other organisations. Doctors Without Borders tells us that the Ebola crisis could be less extensive if the UN agencies had more funds at their disposal in the event of acute crises. When the outbreak came, the United Nations and other relief organizations had to start a beggar's way of travelling money. It took too much time for the international community to react. We should learn from that. The government should never cut the UN Food Fund for 2014, saying that they considered increasing the support when Refugee Aid and Norwegian People's Aid hit the alarm this summer, but waited for the crisis to come in December, before the money came on the table. These mistakes I see are trying to avoid until next year. And we should have agreed not to cut the U.D.'s cultural effort. There is little money that means a lot to Norway. I believe the focus on the education of girls in this budget is very important. Save the children and plan have done a lot to put this on the agenda in Norway, but I should like to see Norway be even more active in terms of reproductive health and women's issues in international forums. These are often controversial issues, and there are not so many who speak in international negotiations unless Norway does. The Labour Party agreed with the government's decision to send soldiers to Iraq. It was a difficult decision, but in this case I think it would be even harder to say no. ISIL is a threat to security throughout the region and the rest of the world. In many of the Middle East crises we see today, we don't have good answers, and extremists are getting more upset. But on the question of Israel and Palestine, we almost have a solution in the drawer. The answers are there. The two-state solution must be implemented, unless I am afraid that the danger of terrorism is increasing, and that moderate forces are losing out. I believe that we should follow those EU countries that advise against buying goods produced in occupied countries, because violations of international law are equally serious whether they are committed in Ukraine or they are committed in Palestine. The situation in Ukraine has led us to have a different relationship with Russia than a year ago. We support the restrictive measures as a protest against Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea. We also see military modernisation on the Russian side in the north. The NATO Neighbourhood Initiative underlines a stronger focus on Defence in our neighbourhoods. On the Norwegian side, we must ensure strong defence in the north and good surveillance of our seas. This is a priority in our alternative budget. But this is not an immediate threat to a bilateral military conflict with Russia in the north. To that end, we have too many common interests in maintaining the international legal order. Dialogue in the north is important now, and I am still surprised that the government in its Northern Region Strategy says they will go from dialogue to action. Dialogue is more important than ever. Our local politicians in the north play a very important role in safeguarding our foreign policy interests through dialogue and more cooperation projects with the Russian people. In today's defence policy priority, we must focus both on the threat of terrorism and on the ability of the defence to assist in any terrorist attack on Norway, while at the same time on our neighbourhoods, but the threat picture today underlines that the danger of possible terrorist attacks is most imminent. The debate and priorities should therefore reflect this fact. We need more knowledge about terrorism to meet this. The defence budget is close to following the ambition of the long-term plan adopted when the Workers' Party was in government, but not in the vicinity of the government party promised, which at the time believed that the long-term plan was underfunded. A growth of 1.43 billion. kr is a little less than 3.4 pst. There are more than many NATO countries have. The budget finances a large and announced increase in order to pay new fighter aircraft to the Defence. However, when the defence is subject to additional efficiency requirements both before and after the negotiations in Stortinget and the money goes right to the treasury and not to the priority business in Defense, it is no longer about efficiency improvement. It's a clean cut of over 100 million. kr. I record that the Minister of Defense every time she is asked about this, talks about the Labour Party in the eight years we were in government, rather than about her own budget and refers to her own budget as a historically high capacity pledge. I think that's easy to see through by people who are interested in defence policy. I don't think people in Defense recognize themselves in this description. No public agency has undergone similar changes as the Defence. My impression is that the people in the Defense loyally follow up the requirements for efficiency improvement imposed on them. What is perceived as the most unreasonable, however, are politicians who express increased ambitions, but who are not willing to pay for it. The budget now presented expresses higher ambitions in terms of operational capacity and military capacity, but instead of more money, more efficiency requirements are required. It increases the gap between rhetoric and reality. A new professional-military advice is announced, to be presented one week before the 2016 budget is due. It will be interesting to see whether this will be a priority for the government – whether it will be security and defence, as the Right and the Advance Party promised in the opposition, or whether there will be new tax cuts to be prioritised in the budget that will then be presented. I hope that in this area of defence policy we can work together on what we agree on: financing and following up the long-term defence plan. There is a great deal of agreement on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. But all the lines and choices should not be fixed in a time of change. It is an advantage of broad consensus, but consensus can also contribute to less discussion of our foreign policy priorities. I hope that today we have an open discussion on different aspects of Norwegian foreign policy priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e242	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e245	The chairperson of the Committee says that we should agree on the percentage of aid and call for dignity in this debate. Then I ask who's starting a political theater, when the difference is between 32.5 billion. kr and 33 br. kr – the difference in dignity is therefore just between 32.5 billion. kr and 33 br. kr. The head of the committee also says that we should have agreed to strengthen the cultural effort, but 33 million. kr extra can only be found on SV's table. Talk about expression of higher ambitions than cash flow. And then the representative Huitfeldt complains about late and too little for humanitarian action, but the Labour Party budget does not continue the refugee issue from this spring. The question is: The Driver Working Party with Symbol and Customs Budgeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e254	Our priorities lie in the financial position. It is clear that we want a higher priority in several areas, both in terms of assistance and contributions to the UN organisations. I believe we should have agreed on 1 pst. in this room, simply because it is the majority for. And if there had been a consensus on that, as it is in the United Kingdom, and the government had made suggestions on this, I think we could have had more interesting discussions on the quality of assistance than that we should discuss the level every year. Every year we have presented a strengthening of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' cultural budget. We can do that this time too, and we have put in proposals for changes in relation to that. Then we want a stronger bet in Syria. We have made a proposal on this and got it quite clearly demonstrated by our party leader Jonas Gahr Støre, who said that in any case there is going to be money left in the budget in December. He got it right. Money came to Syria. We're relieved of that, but it could have happened even before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e263	Fewer countries in the world have an ambition of more than 0.7 pst. of GNI in aid. Norway is a country that provides a record amount of assistance. Does not the representative Huitfeldt agree that giving 32.5 billion? NOK 33 billion, respectively. kr, at all costs is having a large and good aid budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e268	I believe it is a great aid budget. But let me refer you to a conversation from the Foreign Affairs Committee had with Bill Gates at the time that there were budgetary negotiations at the Stortinget a year ago. Then I asked him: would that mean something about Norway goes away from the goal of 1 pst. in assistance? Then Bill Gates said yes. It's simply because Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, so if we go away from our ambitions, it makes other countries relax too. So I think it's important to help others also contribute more to their aid budget. So if we could agree on this level, I think we would have come further and could have a discussion about the quality of the assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e275	The next replicant is the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad. Furthermore, the President would point out that he assumes that no one is engaged in ‘customs budgeting’ and that ‘customs budget’ may be in the border country for what is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e280	I would like to commend the committee chairman for a good introduction to her remarks, on the importance of taking seriously the serious situation we have in the world, with four major humanitarian crises of Category 3. This is an extremely difficult situation, and it is important that Norway prepares and continues to provide a lot of assistance to help those people who are in a serious situation. I think that's important. But I believe that aid is one thing, because Norway also has a responsibility to accept quota refugees. I am aware that this is part of the municipal budget, but it is also linked to what we are discussing today. Of all the opposition parties, only the Labour Party did not choose to add more quota refugees to its alternative budget. It would have been interesting to hear the thoughts of committee leader Huitfeldt about the background that one does not want to be offensive and point out a direction to try to get the government to accept more refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e287	We support the proposal to increase the number of quota refugees, and that it now reaches the same level as we proposed in the 2014 budget, the time we were in government. That is what we believe to be an improvement. But we also agreed with the other parties for a decision in the Great Britain in ours, where we asked the government to come back with proposals on how we could accept more quota refugees. It has now been followed up, and we therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e295	It is interesting that one thinks like that, but in my world – when I see that we are facing the greatest refugee disaster of over 70 years, with more than 50 million people fleeing, and one sees that neighbouring countries receive tens of thousands of refugees, and Norway has budgeted with 1,500 refugees in the government budget – it is a very defensive position from the largest party in the country, when one does not want to go more offensively to work to show that we have room to receive more. I think it's very bureaucratic just to refer to a decision that has been made. One could probably criticize the government for having come up with more clear targets or for showing how many people we can actually accept. But at least we thought it was important to go ahead, so the Christian People's Party gave money to 1,500 more quota refugees in our alternative budget. We were very pleased that we were able to get 500 extras, so that there would be a record number of 2,000. Therefore, I cannot quite understand why the Workers' Party has suddenly turned around, when the government has not provided anything more, but only because of pressure from, among other things. The Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed to receive 2,000 for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e304	We haven't turned around. We took note of the decision we made in ours, namely that we wanted to increase the number of quota refugees, and when there were proposals to that effect, of course, we support it. After all, the number of quota refugees – only from our departure until the new government took over last autumn – was reduced. That's when you started to lower ambitions, so I expect that the criticism that the Christian People's Party is now making affects the government parties as much as the Workers' Party. We wanted a higher level of quota refugees than the Solberg government proposed in its very first budget, and we are in favour of the increases that are now being proposed. I refer to the Workers' Party's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e313	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has taken up the proposal to which she referred. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e318	2014 has been a year of great tensions and changes in the security policy landscape. The year marking the 25th anniversary of the fall of the wall was to be the year of the return of security policy to Europe. We have seen that Russia, through the annexation of Crimea and support for the separatists in eastern Ukraine, has used military power against a neighbouring country to assert its own interests. We also see that humanitarian crises have worsened throughout the year. Long-term abuse of power and non-functioning state apparatus have been the source of popular discontent and after every cross-border crime and terrorism in several places in the world. Several of the conflicts in a number of countries in the Middle East and North Africa have now spread and become regional security crises with clear implications for Norwegian foreign and security policy. These changes have meant that Norway has had to make critical changes both in the aid facility and in the security policy. I am therefore pleased that the government has presented a development budget and a defence budget that reflects the changes in security policy and development policy, with clear changes in direction and priorities. I am pleased that there is broad consensus in the broad lines of foreign and defence policy. In the opinion of the Right, the work of the Committee on the Budget for the Year has been clear and consensual, in line with the Norwegian foreign policy tradition. International law is particularly important for Norway as a small country with significant sea areas and strong interests in the north. It is therefore important that the UN Charter applies to all countries. To the right, it is important to clarify that Ukraine has been an independent country since 1991 in line with the UN Charter. The reintroduction of spheres of influence by Russia and the imposition of claims on the territory of neighbouring countries are unacceptable developments. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee stresses that developments in Russia have gone in a disturbing direction in recent years, where the development of democracy, human rights and civil society are under increasing pressure. The Committee also agrees that Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea has triggered a serious security policy situation in Europe, which also has implications for Norway’s relations with Russia, including the restrictive measures adopted by the EU, the United States and other countries. That the government is now proposing to strengthen support for, among other things. Rule of law reform, good governance and human rights in countries such as Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia in this budget, are a necessary and fundamental step and fit into the perspective of the long-term democratisation of the countries of the region. The Nordic regions are our most important area of foreign policy interest. It is therefore gratifying that the government’s North Sea bet increases by over half a billion dollars to nearly three billion dollars. kr for 2015. It is now important that we are able to exploit the knowledge we have built up in the north, so that new businesses and jobs are created. It is also positive that the government in the budget states that Barents' cooperation will continue. People-to-people cooperation with Russia and cooperation in areas such as fisheries management, the environment, nuclear safety, research and search and rescue are important to maintain. Continued cooperation with all neighbouring countries in the Arctic is important. Everyone has served a peaceful coexistence in the north, and the Committee therefore agrees that NATO must seek a good cooperation relationship with Russia. I have also had the pleasure of being the case rapporteur for the Svalbard budget and I can see broad consensus and support for the government's proposal. It is important that Norway's presence in the northern regions is given a higher priority, including in the defence budget. The 2015 Defence Budget is SEK 43.8 billion. kr – a relatively high level. With a real growth of almost 1.5 billion. kr – about 3.3 pst. – in the opinion of the Right, this is a realistic budget which, at the same time, is characterised by clear priorities in the needs that are coming forward. The Government follows up and finances the objectives and main direction of the current long-term plan in the draft budget for 2015. The government strengthens operational activity and preparedness in all defence sectors and in the Home Office. At the same time, it has been possible to track expenditure related to the acquisition of combat aircraft and the development of the Joint Strike Missile without jeopardizing other parts of the military's operational capability. I am pleased that there is a majority in the Committee on these main priorities. The budget also provides an important boost to overall preparedness and social security through enhanced helicopter preparedness in Back and Bardufoss. After a real decline in four of the eight defence budgets of the previous government, it is interesting that the Labour Party believes that the budget is inadequate. To that end, we need to go back to 2003 to find a larger real increase in the budget. We now have one problem to do together. It is a fact that the defence budgets have been maintained at some level in recent years. In dialogue with the defence sector, government and enlargement must facilitate the achievement of the objectives both in terms of migration and in terms of the next long-term. Parts of the long-term plan will need to be adapted in line with changes in the security policy threat picture and changes in the planning assumptions. The professional military investigation the head of defence has now been commissioned to carry out is a good start to such a process. On the right, support the job done by the government to prioritize and modernise our military capabilities so that the defence builds good operational capability at home and can take its share of responsibility for handling crises internationally. In recent years, many allies have had to make significant reductions. As you can see, Norwegian defence is in a better position than many other countries. It is important that we work closely with our allies in the further process. Close to the southern border of Europe there is a very dramatic development. The extremist terrorist organisation ISIL must be combated. The brutal advance of ISIL in Iraq and Syria is causing great suffering, and they have taken territorial control of large parts of the countries. It is absolutely necessary to put in place a political solution in both Iraq and Syria. In Syria, we see one of the greatest humanitarian crises since World War II. It is estimated that 197,000 people have been killed since the start of the conflict in 2011, of which 62 000 are civilians. 3 million people are displaced, and half of the country's population depends on humanitarian aid. The neighbouring countries are under great pressure and accept huge refugee flows. Lebanon, a country with 4 million inhabitants, has received over 1.1 million refugees. Norway is one of the largest contributors with a total of 845 million. kr in response to the crisis in Syria in 2014, in addition to SEK 200 million. kr to Iraq. A significant increase of 424 million. kr for humanitarian efforts and a high level of the aid budget ensure sound Norwegian efforts in 2015 as well. Norway is at the top of the world in terms of assistance. The budget for 2015 is going to be the largest ever, about 33 billion. kr including climate and forest bets. We see a historical commitment to education, health, international climate cooperation, humanitarian aid, business and efforts to eradicate all extreme poverty. The aid budget is also historic because aid is being reformed. The OECD has criticised Norway for lubricating the aid for thin outside. The most important thing is what we get out of the money, that Norwegian aid works, and that we achieve concrete results. Therefore, efforts are concentrated from 116 countries to 84 countries. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence there is broad agreement on a prudent concentration of assistance. Humanitarian aid and non-governmental organisations are not affected and derogations may be granted. Concentration shall not prevent Norwegian humanitarian action in crisis situations and such flexibility is necessary. For example, the Ebola epidemic has created an exceptional crisis situation in Sierra Leone and Guinea, which did not receive Norwegian assistance in 2013. Norway will contribute to the reconstruction, which will require considerable efforts. In order to ensure development in the poorest countries, we need to focus on development cooperation, trade policy, good investment and job creation conditions. Aid alone is not enough. Sustainable economic growth is crucial for the path out of poverty. Therefore, the government wants to invest more in business development with an increase of 290 million. kr. 250 million. kr of this increase goes to the State-owned investment fund Norfund, which primarily invests in high-risk renewable energy and agriculture projects in developing countries. Nor should Norwegian aid come instead of their own efforts or compensate for bad policies. Both we as donors and the people of developing countries expect to see developments that promote good governance and respect for human rights. By combating corruption and establishing a good investment climate, we contribute to a development that ensures tax revenue for common welfare. With the budget for next year, we're taking a power cap for education. Education for all is not just a human right; it is a condition for growth and development. 58 million children today are out of school. Children affected by war and conflict, girls and people with disabilities are particularly vulnerable, and here we are raising our efforts considerably. After just one year in government, we have increased the investment in education by 640 million. kr. These are significant changes and a shift in the pace of Norwegian foreign policy. Norway’s foreign and development policy shall have clear priorities, be anchored in liberal values and have as its primary objective the safeguarding of central national interests. The long lines of Norwegian security and defence policy are clear: the essential importance of the UN and international law NATO as the foundation of our cooperation with neighbours, friends and partners in the North and Europe our presence in the North In addition, it is important that Norway assumes responsibility for ensuring results in development policy. With the 2015 budget, I believe we can safely say that we are pursuing these objectives through strengthened efforts in key areas such as the North, Education, Health, Humanitarian Aid and Industrial Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e387	The government and the majority of the population – or at least the Right Party and the Advance Party – have been very concerned this year that there has been a shift of power from the government offices to the Stortinget, but if we look at the budget proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at least I don't get it to rhyme. There have been significant aggregations of budget lines over a number of years in the proposition, but this year it is really worse than ever. It's completely impossible to figure out what's standing there. I would like to ask the representative of Greece, the right parliamentary leader: how in the world can the Stortinge have a real influence on the content – and I am talking about the content – of what we use for aid, which is, in part, significant amounts? Does the representative of Greece think that the proposition strengthens the power of the Storting, and what has the Right actually done in this budget to give the Storting more power?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e394	The agreement on Norwegian foreign and security policy is a good thing when the main attack from the largest opposition party is on the entries in the Ministry's budget. I have to say that the most important thing is perhaps the content of the policy and the discussions we have here in the Grand Duchy relating to presentations, relating to this debate, and the points made. I would say that both the Left and the Christian People's Party have been fully at the height of discussions about the budget's arrangements and how it should be prioritised, and I don't feel that this is a big problem. But I understand that the Workers' Party will have a hand down in the detail, I thought it was more important to lift up and discuss the major foreign policy issues. We have seen in 2014 that there has been a huge change, a lot has happened in the course of the year that means that the aid budget and the foreign minister's action must be marked by the fact that there is flexibility, in order to meet the changing situations in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e401	I would say that neither the amount of a million nor the amount of a billion can be called the details of the budget proposal. It's partly about large bag posts. That means that it is completely impossible for us in Stortingen to find out which organization gets that money, that amount and that project. Is it not that even in the area of assistance – and now we are talking about assistance, that is, 33 billion. kr – should the Storting have a real opportunity to have the necessary influence? That's all we're responsible for the billions of aid. I'm not necessarily talking about humanitarian aid or emergency aid, it must be so, but I'm talking about what goes to the individual UN organisations, what goes to civil society, bilateral budget support, etc. Does the representative of Greece still feel that this is a matter of detail in the aid debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e408	No, it is clear that there is no detail in the aid debate about what the money is doing, but what I experience is the criticism from the Workers' Party, about how this is posted, and how the individual budget line is set up. I believe that the main discussion must be the content and realities of aid policy. It is probably possible to get answers on how much support each multilateral organisation receives from Norway, etc., but I believe that the most important thing is to have a debate on the aid policy mechanism, and there has been a historic boost in the education of girls – a post that was cut sharply under the red-green government, has now been strongly strengthened. It's one of the main priorities. There are also other main priorities, such as: a conservative geographical concentration. I believe that we should be at that level, and then it will be up to the opposition and our cooperation partners to what extent detailed transparency should be required in each budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e413	Right has had an offensive arrest for defense and the Voluntary Sniper Service, similar to the Center Party. There are many quotations and many comments from the Right about the need to strengthen the Voluntary Sniper Service, with its nearly 800 shooter teams and 140 000 members. The DFS makes an important societal task, they promote home-protection and defence with pathways, assistance for instruction and training, and they teach young people how to use defence. But in this year's budget, it was cut from the Right, now that the Right has come into government and really could follow up all the offensive statements that have been, with a proper growth in the budget of the DFS. So one might wonder what has been said, and what are the realities. Why doesn't the Right Budget increase for DFS this year? And how will Right contribute to the successful development of the Voluntary Sniper Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e422	First of all, I would like to say that the most important thing is that we have a good and predictable development in the defence budget, where we safeguard the operational capacity, where we ensure that the new fighter planes are phased into the budget, and where we have an opportunity to be operational both at home and outside. That being said, the voluntary organisations are important support players for the defence. They are making a tremendous effort to spread knowledge about and to increase understanding of the defence and the role of defence in society. They maintain or increase support for the vast majority of organisations, but it is true, as the representative Navarsete points out, that there was a small cut in the grant, of 1.3 million. kr, in the 2015 budget. This was something that our partners, the Left and the Christian People's Party, reacted to, and the support has now increased by 1.6 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. It is that in a budget where many things are to be put in place, some priorities have to be done, and we have chosen to give priority to operational capacity and investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e432	I may have thought that the representative of Greece was a little stupider than what he is actually asking the representative of Nybakk. Tomorrow – on the cultural budget – we decided to invest in the hundreds of thousands of krona class, but on the foreign budget there are billions for which we do not know what to use. There is a trend that has gone in that direction over several years. But I'm going to ask you something completely different, just nuclear weapons, and about something of the most important that happens in international politics this week. In Vienna there is now a great conference, the third international conference on the so-called humanitarian trail. Norway permits money for disarmament work over the budget. What I want to know is whether the representative of Greece and Right agrees with me that we should have a ban on nuclear weapons in the world – just as we have a ban on chemical and biological weapons. Should we have a ban on nuclear weapons, and will Norway work for such a ban at that conference – and beyond?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e439	First, to the level of stupidity of the representative of Greece. I myself have been on the Culture Committee, and I know that it gives great pleasure to be able to assist with some hundred thousand for volunteering good work in many parts of the country. Having said that, I believe that discussing at the level of detail – and then there may be huge sums, because there are huge sums of aid budgets – is best done in different debates here in the staging room, instead of going into each budget line in concrete terms and working with a detailed regulation of it. With regard to the conference currently taking place in Vienna, it is important that Norway participates there. It is important that we follow that development. I will not now impose or say what kind of positions Norway is going to have down there in terms of the ban on nuclear weapons, but there is no doubt that having a strong focus on nuclear weapons and making sure that they – I was saying – are controlled by the incredibly scary weapons they are, and that they provide disarmament is important. But Norway's positions in Vienna will probably come back to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e446	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e449	Christmas and a whole new year stand before us, and I therefore find it appropriate to start by showing gratitude. Many people deserve a thank-you, but I would like to highlight in particular the Norwegian men and women serving in the Norwegian defence, and in particular the Norwegian forces serving abroad. I would like to thank each of you for your efforts for Norway. You deserve honor and respect. Thank you very much. Many may not think about the role of defence in Norwegian society every day, but many have brought with them the Defense's own slogan, "For all we have. And everything we are.’, which sums up what it’s all about in a good way. I am pleased that the government underlines the importance of developing a strong and modern defence with the ability to solve national tasks and actively contribute to allied and international cooperation for security and stability. The defence budget shows that priorities are in place. Fighting lights are the largest and most important investment made on the material side. Therefore, it is both important and right that the government prioritise funds to continue the acquisition of new base-solution fighter aircraft. In this context, I would also like to highlight the increased allocation to Step 3 in the development of the Joint Strike Missile, JSM. JSM is the most developed weapon that can best meet operational requirements for a long-range anti-surface weapon with maritime and rural target capabilities. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of the increased allocation of the compensation scheme for injured veterans. The government has shown with its priorities that it follows up beautiful promises with action. It is also of great importance that we now have a defence management and a defence policy management that has chosen not to sweep things under the carpet, but rather have chosen transparency that there are challenges that need to be met and addressed in the future. We live in a challenging time. What was to be a spring solution in the Arab countries was unfortunately quickly to a winter. In Syria, we have witnessed for years now the greatest humanitarian disaster the world has seen in recent times. Millions of people are being chased. Hundreds of thousands of people are slaughtered. In Syria, the choice is between plague or cholera. Radical Islamic terrorist groups have been hosting the world for many years. ISIL therefore does not represent anything new, even though their brutality surpasses most of the things we have seen. Terrorist groups are not just a plague and plague for the people of Syria and Iraq. They also constitute a significant security threat beyond these limits by allowing them to continue their hierarchies and advances. It is therefore important that Norway actively contributes to the defeat of ISIL and help the people who have been subjected to the mercenaries of these Islamists. This summer we witnessed a new war in Gaza. No one could remain unaffected by the images of what was taking place. The peace process seems to have stopped. Once again, there has been massive criticism of Israel from all sides. Sometimes it seems that some actually forget that Israel's opponents in Gaza are a radical Islamist terrorist group that has as its objective the extermination of the State of Israel. Israel is a spark of light in an area characterized by political darkness. It is not my concern to defend Israel in one and all, but it is my concern to encourage an increased understanding of the situation in Israel. As the leader of the donor country group as a major donor to the Palestinian territories, the Norwegian authorities have a great responsibility in following up on how the funds are used. I feel confident that this government will ensure that the funds are used according to the intentions, and that they do not fall into the wrong hands. There is broad consensus in this room that the level of development assistance should be maintained at a high level. The Progress Party believes that assistance can be an important development policy instrument, but will again warn against the thinking that characterises some that the level of assistance seems more important than its content. Trade and the development of a competitive business are far more important development policy measures than assistance. Norway is not just at the top of the world in terms of boxing and chess. We are also at the top of the world for aid. The budget for 2015 is the largest ever. Now moving towards increased geographical concentration of aid is a line choice supported by the Progress Party. Achieving good results with the assistance provided also implies a recognition that aid can also be counterproductive. It all depends on how the aid is used. Good intentions do not always lead to good results. I am pleased that the government is committed to following the OECD recommendations to strengthen performance orientation and concentrate efforts, and not least the OECD recommendation that trade and private business should be more focused. Education is not just a human right, but an important condition for growth and development. The same thing is health. Health is an essential area to be taken into account if we are to lay the foundation for growth and development in a society, and not least for women's health and education. I am therefore very pleased that the government takes responsibility and shows leadership globally in strengthening the importance of prioritizing both health and education in aid. Russia's aggressive behaviour towards Ukraine has led us to witness one of the most demanding security policy situations in Europe since the Cold War. It is easy to condemn Russia's behaviour, but at the same time it is important not to forget that the only option for a solution to this crisis is political. Norway has a historically good relationship with Russia, and then there are also good neighbours to be able to say from if we believe that development is going in the wrong direction. There is no doubt that much of the development in Russia has gone in the wrong direction in recent years, and we should also say so. Nevertheless, relations with Russia must be further developed for the future. It is very important that Norway is also fully in line with its closest allies and partners in the response to Russia. There's nothing either-- or here. A few years ago, discussions often took place on whether NATO had a future, whether it was needed for NATO, and not least when it was decided that NATO was to leave the operation in Afghanistan. This discussion is not going on much longer. In the time we live in, NATO appears to be more important than ever. NATO is the carrier of Norwegian security and defence policy and the second most important international organisation Norway is a member of. The United States is Norway's closest friend and allies. There are political and historical reasons why it is so. That is why I am very pleased that an overall committee in positive order has commented on the ongoing project with Norway House in Minnesota. Relations with the United States should be further developed and strengthened in many fields. This also means that we should take care of and further develop the Norwegian-American relations in those areas of the United States where there are a high number of descendants of the North. Let me end with a few words about the northern regions. The Nordic regions are Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest. I am therefore very pleased that the government again goes from word to action and prioritizes the North Region bet. This also means that we continue to develop cooperation in a number of practical areas that we have with our big neighbour in the north, Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e481	Maybe the representative Norheim also has a suggestion he's going to bring up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e484	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e489	The representative of Kristian Norheim then addressed the proposal. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e494	The setting, on page 22, second column, underlines ‘Norway’s interest in an international legal order in which relations between states are regulated by an increasingly denser set of obligations, norms and conventions. International organisations play an important and necessary role in ensuring such development.» This has been a supporter of Norwegian foreign policy throughout the post-war period. Why does the Progress Party disagree with this – since it says ‘the majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party’?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e501	It is right, as the representative Hansen points out, that international organisations and conventions are an important part of the international legal order. At the same time, it is also important to be able to take a critical view of a part of this – so do not be uncritical of everything going on in this area. The Progress Party has done so. We believe it is important to have a critical look at some of the international conventions and organizations, for example. Part of what the United Nations is doing, and that we must also dry up a debate on a part of the conventions that Norway has signed up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e506	Last year, the Progress Party took part in this comment, so it might be interesting to hear what has happened during the last year that makes them not to join. Let me also ask about something the representative Norheim said in his post. He referred to the defence budget and that which lies there. The defence budget is a follow-up to the long-term plan, as presented by the previous government. It's a little bit lower than what you should have. But then the representative Norheim said that they ‘follow up beautiful promises with action’. During the entire previous period, the right was 500 million. SEK or 600 million. kr above what was the level of the long-term plan, the Progress Party had 1 billion. kr more in its alternative budgets. What is the reason why the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Government are unable to do the same priority when they can give proper priority to money and not just monopoly money?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e515	I have to disagree a little with the presentation of the representative Hansen here. On the contrary, I believe that the budget now presented shows that we are actually going from word to action and that this is a priority. So I also think you can agree, we defence friends, that there may never be enough money for the defense, but it's a completely different debate. The way in which priority has been given both to the material side and to the operational capacity shows that one is on the right track, after quite a few years of a slightly voiced treatment of the Norwegian defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e525	One could say that in some areas the Progress Party is visible in its foreign policy in the budget proposals that have been presented, for example. by not opening to receive more than one refugee and falling below 1 pst. in assistance. But this has then been embittered by the Christian People's Party and the Left in negotiations. What I could think of asking, in the light of the article by the representative Norheim, is: Will the Progress Party continue its work, as it says in their programme, a significant reduction in Norway's collection of development aid and – when they are in government – to get it as low as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e532	The representative, Mr Solhjell, asks: as part of the government, the party of progress has joined the government platform, and it says it is black and white that we should maintain a high level of assistance. That is why it is important for the Progress Party, and I think it is also for our cooperation parties and for our coalition partner Right, how the money is spent. You're most concerned about how the money is spent instead of necessarily going up to 1 pst. We are concerned with the content of aid because we see that aid can also work counterproductively, and that good intentions do not necessarily produce good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e537	The centre party wishes, as it is known, to replace the EEA Agreement with a normal trade agreement with the EU. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we have proposed to reduce Norway's concessions to EEA funds, which the Progress Party's Right Party has criticised in strong order. I was happy, but somewhat surprised, when the Progress Party announced that they supported the Central Party's comments that point out that the EEA media is useful for many partly curious purposes. Examples of the use of funds range from the refurbishment of landmarks in Krakow Square, maritime museum in Gdansk and the refurbishment of church bells in Budapest to the financing of an underground garbage collection system in Seville. The government is now negotiating with the EU on a new round of permits through EEA funds. Will the Progress Party, which recognises that the funds are not being used effectively, simply to contribute to social smoothing, in government, so that Norway does not give up more and more opportunities in EEA funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e546	For the Progress Party, the EEA Agreement is a very important agreement and the Progress Party supports Norway's continued membership of the EEA. At the same time, part of the curious examples mentioned in this note, on which the Progress Party was involved, of what the EEA funds have gone to, of course, are also part of the reality. But we have full confidence that the government is critical and well-followed by the fact that the EEA funds go to important and good projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e551	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e554	Tomorrow, Pakistani woman Malala Yousafzai will receive the Nobel Peace Prize for her unfair efforts for girls' right to education. She gets it along with Indian Kailash Satyarthi, who has dedicated her life to the fight for children's rights and the fight against child labour and slavery. In a world where, according to a recent report from the Walk Free Foundation, over 35 million people live as slaves, this is a peace prize distribution that I support one hundred percent. At the same time, the peace price is a strong reminder of the importance of doubling our efforts for education in Norway during this major period. For the Christian People's Party, education aid has always been job number one, and this budget shows that education again is. It's a concrete handshake for Malala and her fight. The strong aid budget gives us the power to act. It makes words act in the fight for children's rights. This year's peace prize shows us more clearly than most of the time that our development policy is about ensuring the human rights of children and young people. There are also fundamental rights, the right to life and health, where the critical Ebola epidemic shows the importance of a well-developed health service, and therefore Norway must continue to have a leading role for global health, including in combating infant and maternal mortality. In the last year, in Norway, we have stepped up our humanitarian aid to people in conflict and crisis situations, and in next year's budget there will be a further increase of over 400 million. kr. This is help for people in acute distress. I'm proud to have a foreign minister with such a burning commitment to emergency aid. He's unstoppable at the ball where crises happen. Yes, he is so much on the road that foreign ministers in other countries have begun to wonder if Børge Brende is the clone, because there must be at least two of him to reach the travel program he has. But it is important for Norway as an active contributor to peace and development in the world. In the coming year, this commitment becomes important, because we all saw that yesterday the United Nations sent out an appeal for record-breaking 117 billion. kr in order to be able to finance their humanitarian operations next year. Half of the amount shall help the victims of the Syrian War. The rest is to help almost 60 million people in the 22 most vulnerable countries around the world in 2015. In development policy, there is once again an overall committee that defends a 1 pst aid budget. of gross national income. For the second time in history, it's now a unanimous big deal that votes for 1 pst. by GNI in aid! It's becoming a good tradition. In the increased framework of our development cooperation, we have strengthened in particular three main objectives: firstly, support for civil society, i.e. the development of voluntary organisations, increased by over 177 million. kr. It's the greatest increase in a very long time. Combined with the budgetary agreement that they should not be subject to geographical concentration, this is a politically important improvement. Included in this increased framework of civil society is also the so-called information support for the information work of organisations without cutbacks. The allocation of the information support is increased by about 50 pst. as compared to the government's proposal. The whole cut is reversed. The 2014 guidelines are continued in the allocation of funds in 2015 and during the year revised guidelines are to be worked on and organisations are to be consulted in this process. It promises a good solution that ensures the best possible work for a coherent development policy. Democratic support through the parties is also continued at the same level as this year. Secondly, Norway’s support for the Green Climate Fund is doubled compared to the government’s proposals, thus providing Norway with support of 400 million next year. kr. It's a very strong contribution. It can help both to prevent harmful climate change and to help vulnerable countries adapt to better master the changes that unfortunately happen. Thirdly, the allocation of 101 refugee measures is increasing in Norway. This is done to allow for an increase in the number of quota refugees to be accepted by Norway in 2015 and to improve the offer of young and minor lone asylum seekers. As important as these budgetary changes are the political changes agreed between the cooperation parties in the context of the budgetary agreement. A conservative geographical concentration of Norwegian aid shall take place, which shall be dealt with in a separate case next year. There, we have been made aware of the need to concentrate state-to-state assistance, while at the same time having two important fundamental exceptions to the principle of concentration: the country list does not include humanitarian aid, nor does it include assistance from non-governmental organisations. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased with that. It is also worth putting two lines under the consensus that the government is going to make the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget more informative, and the discussion between the Labour Party and the Right earlier here in the Chamber really has a clear answer in the vote: for the budget proposal next year, the Storting will provide better opportunities for transparency, influence and control of the use of budgetary resources. This Christian People's Party has been occupied with for many years without getting through. Now we've won. Developments in the Middle East are frightening. Extreme, Islamic groups have achieved great military strength. They are in large parts of both Syria and Iraq. It says that the terrorist group ISIL, which is so brutal that even Al Qaida takes a break from them, this year has managed to build up such a great military force. Armed Islamists are the greatest security threat in the Middle East. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we also made a lot of efforts this time to get good and balanced comments on the situation in the Middle East, especially on the relationship between Israel and the Palestinians. I'm glad that the entire committee is in favour of this – except SV, who is jumping off in terms of criticism of Hamas and other militant groups. The rest of the Committee is involved in a nuanced assessment of the situation. We point out critical conditions on the Israeli and Palestinian sides, while stressing the responsibility of both sides to contribute to a two-state solution where Israelis and Palestinians can live side by side in peace and security. Finally, let me highlight in particular that the Christian People's Party is pleased that the defence budget protects operational capability. As always, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we will stress the importance of the crew's competence and that they will have enough practice and training every year. The most modern equipment is not enough. It has to be served by people who know the job. The defence budget emphasises the presence in the north. It is also important in a situation where the relationship between NATO and Russia has been strained by the conflict in Ukraine. Russia has clearly violated international law there. They have occupied and annexed the territory of another European country. This is a serious situation, where a firm, clear and constructive relationship with Russia is important – not least in order to ensure sustainable fisheries management, rescue cooperation and the further development of people-to-people cooperation between our two countries in the North. The Christian People's Party has a long tradition of supporting the Voluntary Sniper Service, DFS. That is why we are also pleased that our initiative led to a point in the budgetary agreement that the aid should be increased to the 2014 level. Thus, DFS does not get any cut in the aid in 2015. The popular organisations that receive support from this budget – among them People and Defence – are involved in ensuring the popular anchoring of defence and the knowledge of the people about defence. This democratic rootstock of the population is important and must therefore be kept very alive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e588	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e591	I would like to thank you for a point-of-view article. It is quite obvious that the aid budget has become much better since the Christian People's Party participated in negotiating some changes. We agree on the priority of education. When we discussed this a year ago, I agreed on such a priority, but I thought that to get a profile of education, a lot of cuts were made that were not responsible. One of the cuts made was cut into the UN Food Fund. We've seen in the course of the year what we on the Labour Party warned against, that this could affect refugees in Syria. In the light of the postwar clock, was it wise for the Christian People's Party to be part of the United Nations Food Fund, or should you have avoided it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e602	Thank you for an important line. The Christian People's Party would like to have more money for the UN Food Fund. I think that in the situation that I described in my post, there will also be a need for the long-term work. I would like to stress that it has also been important for us to be able to raise the education effort as high as it has been done. That's because we view it as the key to creating development itself. I know that the representative shares the Christian People's Party's view that education will give children an opportunity to get a job later, that it will strengthen the fight against child marriage, that it will ensure that they are born later, maybe marry later, etc. That's why we believe that the commitment to education is one of the most important things we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e611	I think there is reason to boast of the efforts of the Christian People's Party and the Left in the negotiations on the development budget. Many of the honorary orders that the representative of Greece and others can enjoy here are to the Christian People's Party and the Left. It wouldn't be possible to put it in front of the hall without the agreement. I have two questions in connection with it – a small one and a large one. The small thing is, when there was so much money, why didn't the Christian People's Party prioritise a small increase in the cultural effort, via the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which would be effective? A very small amount could make a big difference. Now we get cut. The second thing is, now it looks like we're on our way into a pattern, where the government is putting its proposals to the government budget a little bit below 1 pst, and then the Christian People's Party and the Left are going to turn it up. The aid ceiling will then be 1 pst. After a lot of fighting. Is the Christian People's Party happy with the pattern we now see drawing from two budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e620	Thanks for bragging. We are well pleased with the budget that we have been able to negotiate and which we are going to adopt today. I have to say that I am very pleased that it should be 1 pst. for assistance. I disagree with those who say that it's a little less than 1 pst, so we can't have a debate on the content of the aid. I think that's exactly what we've had in the last few days, and that at least we want. So I think that if you can reach 1 pst, we'll be very satisfied with that. The Christian People's Party has gone further in its alternative, so to the extent that I can follow the representative Solhjell in that we would like to do so, but I think it is important that in this debate we are able to focus on the other things. Then I want to highlight increased geographic concentration as one of the things that become important. I think it's very good to focus on the state-to-state aid, while one exempts non-governmental organisations and humanitarian aid. Therefore, one can also include the comments we have on SPU – which lies below the Minister of Finance – that it should be used as a tool to create investment in the poorest countries. This is in the middle of the debate that we have now, although we have secured 1 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e630	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party often have conflicting views, even when it comes to the need for assistance, and I join those who have the pink Christian People's Party and the Left in their efforts to get up the promises for assistance. The center party is also very positive that we should bet on education, like the others in this room. But I want to ask the Christian People's Party about this: Is it right that we should not find room to bet more strongly on finding the possibility that more people will eat their food and get the most needed, the most basic of the poorest, who, if we read the setting, are the big stakes in this budget? For the Central Party, a strategy to develop food production for the poorest is quite alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e635	I fully agree with the representative of Navarsete that both water and food are of course one of the most important things we can raise. When you look at the world's poorest, at least those who live in Africa, most of them live on agriculture. That's why we've been busy lifting just that piece. What I think is good with this budget is that it has a clear profile that education is important, health is important, and we also have a boost for civil society. We have a discussion about which channels a user is using to provide assistance, and there we have raised civil society to a greater extent, because we believe it is very effective. However, this does not preclude a person having a clear commitment to, for example. water or nutrition. It is also clearly highlighted by comments in the budgetary position. Whatever our profile, we believe that education and health are among the most important areas in which Norway can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e640	The good work of the Christian People's Party to raise the appropriations on the aid side is a good example of the benefits, the political benefits, by quantifying a share of gross national income that will go to a purpose that does not itself have strong political self-interests to drive it forward in Norway. That is why the Greens proposed a percentage of the climate, corresponding to 1 pst. by GNI of the State pension fund abroad, to be allocated to the United Nations Climate Fund. The Christian People's Party did not support this, but spoke positively about the idea. In Lima today, we have just the situation we feared, where the criticism of Western countries, including Norway's lack of willingness to give to the UN Climate Fund, is building up to an expected main problem in reaching an international climate agreement. How does the Christian People's Party intend to continue working to raise Norwegian climate funds, international climate funds, to the UN climate fund to a high enough level?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e647	Thank you for an important question from the representative Hansson. We're very proud of what's in this budget, which is a double and an increase of 400 million. kr to the green climate fund. Then one would probably have had even more, and Norway would have contributed even more, but I don't think using the State pension fund abroad is the right instrument for that fund. We have a clear and clear ambition to turn investment in the oil fund into both renewable energy infrastructure projects and more emerging markets in the poorest countries. There's going to be an investigation out of the budget agreement, so hopefully we can do it either spring or after that, because I think when you get to make such clear investments, it's going to have a huge developmental purpose. As far as the climate fund is concerned, we should also be involved and contribute to the high level of funding. I have registered that the government has announced 400 million. kr in the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e652	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e655	In the last year, we've seen a series of humanitarian crises happening at the same time. Iraq, Syria, West Africa, Sudan, Gaza and Ukraine are all areas where the civil part of the people suffers from sickness, nakedness and violence. In West Africa, the ebola epidemic is taking more and more lives. Two weeks ago, the World Health Organization announced that nearly 7,000 people had lost their lives as far as the disease. There is a great shortage of medical staff in all the Ebola countries. The United Nations reported a few weeks ago that less than a quarter of the scheduled beds required for treatment of Ebola in West Africa are in place. In Syria and Iraq, Nauda is insensitive. Refugee aid reported earlier this year that more than 9 million Syrians needed emergency humanitarian aid and over 2.8 million had fled across the border of neighbouring countries. The UN warns that the flow of refugees can create tensions and conflicts in neighbouring countries. Norway is required to provide resources in these areas. The crises have created a historical need for assistance and urgent assistance for people lacking food, medicine and health care. The centre party thinks we should provide assistance where nauda is the largest. We propose in our alternative budget to increase the aid budget by about 1.2 billion. In addition to the government's original proposals, we propose to increase support for emergency aid and humanitarian aid by 500 million. kr. The center party will use the assistance to help people with what they need the most. The government has announced an increased investment in education before Norwegian aid. We support this initiative, not least for girls, and we are slipping over the Nobel Peace Prize and focus it on children's growth and education. At the same time, we realize that it is difficult to learn without the basic needs of young people being met. The most fundamental need for all is the need for water and food. About one in three people in sub-Saharan Africa are today defined as undernourished. In this area, food production has been reduced in recent years, and in many countries there is little room for expanding agricultural land. The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, FAO, indicates that Africa has imported about a quarter of its food needs over the last few years. With increasing population density, existing food production is being divided into more and more. At the same time, the earth will be depleted. There's a hurry to start a development where productivity increases, based on a resilient management of the earth. There is great uncertainty about future prices on the international food market. If both accessing and paying for food becomes more difficult, national self-sufficiency will be more important for each country. If food supply on the international food market is reduced, it is all the more important to strengthen agriculture and the ability of each country to produce its own food. Among other things, the World Bank has indicated that the most effective way to reduce poverty is to support small farmers in developing countries. There are no other industries that can compare with agriculture when it comes to creating employment and economic distortions for the very poorest in the world. Norway has a high level of competence in food production. Strengthening agriculture's share of the aid budget could bring important health benefits as well as economic and social benefits to the beneficiary countries. The government proposed to increase the aid from Norway by around 870 million. kr. This was about 420 million. kr less growth than the government’s proposals for growth in transfers in EEA funds. The centre party will help people get out of trouble, silt and poverty. That's the sensible use of tax money for people. I think the EEA funds have little to do with this. Among other things, Europe’s Communication showed that much of Norway’s payments in EEA funds are in support of cultural heritage and environmental projects, and a large number of questions about whether – and, if so, to what extent – the objective of living conditions is to smooth out. In its 2013 report, the National Audit Office writes that it is uncertain to what extent it can be demonstrated that the Norwegian EEA funds contribute to economic and social cohesion. The same question is asked by the Center Party. Is it effective reduction of poverty to allow funds to a Slovak mine museum, a Polish maritime museum in Gdansk, the refurbishment of a church bell in Budapest or the renewal of the square in Krakow? The central party believes that Norway's payments to EEA funds are not related to the development of the permissions of the poorest among us. For the period 2009–2014, Poland received more than 50 times as much in EEA funds as e.g. Sierra Leone received Norwegian aid between 2009 and 2013. In Sierra Leone, large parts of the population live in absolute poverty. The same is not the case in Poland. Poland received more EEA funds for 2009–2014 than the 80 beneficiary country received together in Norwegian assistance from 2009 to 2013. Last week I asked for an overview of all the projects that Norway contributed to financing through the EEA funds. I received a long list of more than 650 pages, so I had enough reading material this weekend. As the government is negotiating a new round of payments of EEA funds, it is entirely necessary for the Norwegian people to see the amount of Norway’s rights in EEA funds and the use of these funds. The feedback I have received recently indicates that there are a lot of Norwegian people who are not informed about the size of the payments or what Norway is authorising the EEA funds to do. Norway must always be able to defend our freedom as an independent nation. It's a completely fundamental task for every nation, and it's our responsibility as elected representatives to do this. There is reason to point out that the international situation has developments that give cause for concern. In 2014, we have experienced extensive, sharp military operations in the heart of Europe for the first time since 1945. In the last year, we have seen several conflicts occur in different places at the same time. This can happen again. NATO may, in the future, experience a situation in which several Member States are faced with different approaches at the same time. Then it is absolutely necessary that the defense has a volume and a capacity to be persistent enough to defend Norway over a longer period of time. At the same time, a solid defense would be horrifying. Sufficient investment in Defence reduces the risk of attacking Norway. The main task of defence is to defend Norwegian territory. This is a task that requires great resources and political priority. Norway has a land area of size with Italy, but with one tenth of the population, and we're going to defend a sea area that has the same size as the Mediterranean. We have a coast rich in energy resources and fish. Resource-rich areas are traditionally more exposed to conflicts, which requires a conscious strategy for Norwegian defence policy. The government has announced that they will step up Norway's military presence in the north. The center party thinks it's important to have a solid presence in the north. However, there is reason to ask if the government's rhetoric is in line with the government's rights to the Defence. In order to strengthen the Defence in the North, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the Maritime Defense and Coast Guard. Today we know that the Maritime Defense experience great challenges related to having enough crew and taxes on the crew. Norway’s Officers’ Association points out that maritime defence, and in particular the Marine, have major challenges related to staff and operations. During the hearing of the defence budget, it was also pointed out that if today's agreed task portfolio and structure are to be maintained, the licenses of the Maritime Defense Service must be increased. In the opposition, the Right and Advance Party pointed out that the maritime defence had a difficult resource situation, which, in the view of the parties, had to be addressed immediately and which would require extensive action in the short and long term. It is difficult to see that the Right Party and the Advance Party have followed this in government. The Coast Guard is also facing a challenging resource situation. The Defence Budget will result in a reduction in the activity level of the Coast Guard under the agreed level of ambition and in a reduction in the efficiency of the vessel structure. The centre party means the signal from different actors in the defense gives cause for some concern. The Defence Manager is concerned about operational capability, which we can read in the proposition is reduced for parts of the Defence. We therefore suggest increasing the rights of the defence. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we strengthen Coast Guards by 17.5 million. kr. We're increasing the licenses for Marine Defense by $25 million. kr. We'll allow 50 million. kr more for the Army and 30 million. kr more to Homeland. In order for young people to learn how to use weapons safely and to ensure that the Home Security is a good path for shooting around the country, the Voluntary Sniper Service is making a great effort. The centre party has therefore proposed in our alternative budget to increase their licenses by 2.5 million. kr. We also expect the government to provide the organisation with good and good conditions for further development, not least in relation to previous announcements about this great organisation. For the Central Party, it is important that, through a concerted effort, we prioritise enough resources to ensure a solid defence of our country for a troubled period of time. The Central Party, through its alternative budget, shows the clearest willingness to prioritize the Norwegian defence and to maintain such a strong stance as a solid defence party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e702	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e705	With regard to foreign policy and the EEA Agreement, there is consensus and broad disintegration here in Norway – fortunately – and it is a strength. Only exceptionally, there are some parties that have a different vision, some kind of outside strategy. The Center Party will cut $2.50. in the EEA funds in its alternative budget and certainly use them for many good purposes. However, these funds are EEA funds which will be disbursed in 2015 and which are bound up by agreements negotiated by the Red-Green Government, where the Centre Party was involved. Does the Central Party believe that Norway should not be subject to its obligations under agreements concluded with other countries? Does the Central Party think that this is a realistic budgeting, or is it really air money, that is, money you don't have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e712	I thank you for the question. There is no doubt that Norway can and should assess how the EEA funds are used and whether what we pay is in line with what we want to achieve. It has been stressed by the government itself, one has said that Norwegian support schemes should be concentrated where the money is of the greatest benefit. It should also apply to EEA funds. Furthermore, the government has gone to the step of refusing to pay funds to Hungary because one of my funds is not being used properly. The non-payment of residuals for the period 2009–2014 represents something like 1.2 billion. kr to Hungary. This shows that Norway can actually make independent assessments, and that is what the Central Party has done in its budget. We have made an assessment that of all the 650 pages of projects, there are very many projects that are not in line with the objectives of the funds, simply to reduce poverty and cushion living conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e719	Several of us have also noticed that the representative was concerned with Norway's security and defence capabilities in his post. At the same time, in the case of the international military operations against ISIL, the Central Party has not given support to them. Does the Central Party believe that it is not so important to be together with our allies in the fight against extreme and brutal terror, which ISIL stands for, in a situation where there is a threat to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e725	The centre party is in full agreement with the rest of the Stortingen for a policy in which we are to fight terrorism and terrorists. But we have experience from previous operations that are not very good. We've seen in retrospect that one didn't have enough long-term assessments and a good enough exit strategy for what one did when one went in. One might also say that for some of the operations, the situation after one has been on them, was not better, but perhaps worse, that the forces that were taken out were replaced by forces that were even worse. We had little opportunity to imagine what was going on, after we, together with our allies, have been involved in different operations. That's what makes the Center Party think that we should now take the time to make sure that we have a long-term strategy for how we really want to achieve what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e730	I'm going to ask questions about the same thing that the representative Hansen asked my colleague Kristian Norheim about. On page 22 of the set-up, it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, will emphasise Norway’s interest in an international legal order in which relations between States are regulated by an increasingly denser set of obligations, standards and conventions. International organisations play an important and necessary role in ensuring such development.» This means that the Stortinge gives its support to a state legalisation of policy. This means that power and authority are removed from national parliaments and transferred to various international organisations such as the United Nations, the EU and, where appropriate, others, which are not elected bodies. It's strange to me that the Center Party supports this development, and I find it very inconsistent. What does the representative think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e740	To the same thing as the Progress Party – and to at least the same extent, I believe – the Centre Party has a healthy scepticism as to what Norway is going to be in and not of international activity, conventions and agreements. We are strongly opposed to stronger integration into the EU, but we are very much in favour of Norway being a strong and active member of the United Nations, which we think should be strengthened beyond what the United Nations is today. We are so disappointed that the government does not have a stronger focus on the UN and will strengthen their organizations at different levels, so that they will be even better able to enter quickly and efficiently where needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e745	The Green Party agrees with the Centre Party on the importance of targeting both girls and – not least – food production in aid. A major threat to future food production in poor countries is, of course, climate change, which is a main reason why the UN Climate Fund, with Norwegian involvement, has been set up to help developing countries to be better equipped to withstand climate change. That is also why the rich countries committed themselves to raising 600 billion. kr to that fund when they were in Copenhagen in 2009. Norway has provided 400 million. kr. The Green Party has proposed an aid rate of 33 billion. kr. There is already considerable dissatisfaction in Lima over the low contribution from rich countries and we assume, in particular, with Norway’s contribution, despite the fact that Norway’s government itself is very satisfied. How will the Centre Party work to increase Norwegian climate assistance to the UN Climate Fund and other actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e750	I agree entirely with the Green Party representative when it comes to the objective. And if we're going to be able to meet the global demand for both water – which may be as critical as food, but it's related – and food, then the climate challenges are the biggest threat to it. The centre party likes to work with the Greens to raise both agriculture and food production, but also to make Norway an even bigger contributor to ensuring that this is achieved, including the basic income. The climate fund and other elements are important contributors to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e755	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e758	We are in an international political situation where the world around us is changing dramatically. Norway's relationship with Russia and Russia's relationship with its own citizens is not in a positive development. We see a tragedy emanating in Syria, in Iraq the participation of our allies has led them to a government that was so unbalanced that it gave room for ISIL's growth, we see what is happening in Gaza and elsewhere in the Middle East, and we are facing huge refugee disasters around the world. Then it's actually a little nice that the big duels in the line changes here are about the budget line by budget line under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Voluntary Sniper Service. I am very much in favour of the Voluntary Sniper Service – the entire existence of the Left begins with the beginning of the Voluntary Sniper Service – and I believe it is a strength that the foreign policy debate in Norway does not have as steep a front as the challenges around us could provoke. There's a lot of agreement about large parts of what we're doing, and the fact that we have a minority government, means that we also have a government that has orientated the Storting often and well. You haven't been close to going to war because of text messages. I want to boast to the government that we now have the open tone, and that we are informed as well as we are, in Stortinget. That, I think, is what characterizes the basic tone of this debate. As far as the budget is concerned, the Left is very happy that we also have 1 pst this year. inside, but also because we got a big stake in the Green Climate Fund. We are very positive that the government has announced an increase in the years ahead. I think it's one of the important stakes to make it possible for the international climate negotiations to be positive. I'm very happy that we now have a government that is betting on girls and education. Instigating girls and investing in education to change society, I believe is a fundamental right thinking. So I very much agree with the representative, Ropstad, that the peace prize that will be awarded tomorrow is in a very good light in relation to the government's efforts. I think that investing in girls and education as an important part of the whole development policy is a right track to follow, because it is about empowering very many of those who are going to carry the changes in their own countries. Then we support the proposal for country concentration for which the Council of State has gone. It wasn't as radical as many fears. It is not often that I like the word ‘conservative’, but when it comes to making changes with as large tankers as the Minister of Foreign Affairs sits and governs, it is wise to take it gradually and in line with those who actually contribute to it. I am very pleased with the exception we received in the budget negotiations, because I think that I am in favour of keeping the breadth and support associated with such a country concentration. It is important that we over time ensure that we have both the focus and the quality of the job we are doing, and then it is wise to make such changes, but it is important not to do it too quickly, and it is important to have the entire voluntary Norway in mind of such a change. I'm going to admit that there were two cuts that I got really annoyed about, and I'm really annoyed with our sails because we couldn't fix one of them. Support to non-governmental organisations through RORG and information support is a very important basis for Norway as such a large aid nation. There is an important basis for the popular commitment to foreign policy in a small nation such as Norway. It's very important to make sure that politicians also get objective information from different teams, which means that we have a completely different picture when we travel into the world than what we would have had if we were just to deal with official channels. People-to-people cooperation and the important role of information support in all of this, I am very surprised that the government has not understood the importance of it, but I am very pleased that they agreed that we got it back. Then I'm really sorry that we didn't get the cultural support in place. I'm going to admit that we couldn't. I hope that we will come back to that, that Norway will be able to contribute with its artists in the world, and that Norway will also have a strategy for it. Norwegian culture and Norwegian artists are so worth it that we have to be willing to show them to the outside world. I think it's a wonderful cut to do in a budget with so much money. I hope we can get back to it, and I hope we can get it back, because that's what I think Norwegian artists and Norwegian culture are worth. So two comments on the defence budget. Firstly, probably the Left is concerned about a development in which the relationship between investment and operations continues to differ. We now see the need for large investments, but we are very concerned whether the operating budget is related to the investment budget we are now facing. We're afraid that if we don't make it, it'll be a demanding process in the future. The second comment I would like to make on the defence budget relates to the comments we have on HV016. The threat facing Norway is much more complex than it was when I grew up in the 1980s and the enemy was one and the war was nuclear war. The threat of terrorism presents quite another challenge to our defence and to our police. Having capacities of the kind that HV016 was before the previous government put it down, I think it's important for the Defense, and it's an important defense in view of the terrorist challenges we're facing. There are two proposals here from the Greens. I'm actually a little sorry that they come as solving suggestions in such a treatment, because it's quite a big and demanding theme that gets addressed in two simple suggestions with some short lines. We in the left are going to get back to that. I don't think it's necessarily the solution if we can find good solutions to clean it up on Svalbard, as we'd come a long way in technology to do. But we must clearly put in place a new nutrition strategy for Svalbard if we have not intended to subsidize coal production there, otherwise the market forces will probably fix it, as Mr Hansson proposes in the first proposal. We in the Left will come back to that with an initiative here in Stortinget. Then I just want to take some numbers in the end, because there was a lot of talk about quota refugees. We can be measured by what we can do when we have to cooperate with others in this field, both civil and socialist, so I just want to take the numbers. In 2012 the red-green 1 200 quota refugees received. In 2013, they received 1 120 quota refugees. In 2014, the first budget left was making, when we received 1,620 quota refugees, and the second we receive 2,120. But it's just one thing to say about it: it's too small.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e784	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e787	It is quite clear that through the negotiations, the Left has improved this budget, especially as regards concentration. The fact that the work that has been done by the voluntary organisations over many years can now be continued, I believe is important. I would like to ask about an area in which the representative himself is involved, namely culture. I know it's near Trine Skei Grande's heart. Several have been in contact with representatives at Stortinget since the budget was adopted. I have many contacts in cultural life that say that the Right understood the situation, that after the budget negotiations they were not strangers to increase the Norwegian promotion post, and that the Right would then bring this up with the Left and Christian People's Party in the Committee. Is it true that the right has taken this up after the budget negotiations have been completed? Is it in the case where the Left has rejected it, or how does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e796	It is arduous to be the parliamentary leader of a party that sits and negotiates with the government, but I do not control everything, who has spoken to who, when and in which committees. What we had hoped was that we could do it in the committee, we couldn't do it. We agreed on a comment, which means we have to come back to this, because I am truly sorry that we couldn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e803	To the «representative of the Voluntary Sniper Service», or Left, which I often call them in the daily legal context, I would also say that together with the Christian People's Party, they got a lot of money in the budget negotiations. The big picture in development policy shows that there is quite a lot of unity – both at level and when it comes to content – between the centre/left and the right/front step party, which stands a little different, but knows where the majority in the Stortinget is. But at one point I was a little disappointed, and perhaps a little surprised, that the representative Skei Grande is so satisfied. One can't buy a quota of $300 million. kr, i.e. allowances that would have gone to the south climate project, and then increased one by 200 million. kr to the Green Climate Fund. In total, there was a weaker priority for climate support in the south. In addition, the representative says that she is pleased that the government has now announced that this level should be maintained for four years. I think it's very far away from the promise that needs to be made by Norway. Is the representative of the Skei Grande really happy with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e811	We may have to put on the green climate fund, but in the case of quota purchases, there has been so much money left on the book every year that it was one of the posts we thought it would take off – because there was so much money left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e816	I also agree to cut quota purchases, but what we do in our alternative budget is that we increase sharply in the total amount from Norway in the bet on climate action in the south. What's the reason for that? It is that it is not reasonable to reach an agreement in Paris in 2015 without significant financial contributions from Western countries with large responsibilities and resources. Two new reports, from the Church's Emergency Aid in the summer and from some of Norway's leading climate experts, who were recently presented to SV, pointed out that almost the same approach would require a massive economic uplift from Norway and some other countries. And one thing we could really do to get the negotiations speeded up was to alert an escalating plan that's at a completely different level than what's now. Then we have to warn that now we're going to lie there, at a rather low level, considering the country we are. I would like to hear if Trine Skei Grande and Left are quite happy with it and think it is a good outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e823	No, I think we have to add on all of this in order to get to a consensus, and I think that if we in the SV and the Left had sat down to agree on that post, we would probably have agreed on it too, sail if we might not have agreed on all of the other items in a budget as effectively. The increase that we were able to achieve, we were happy, but we should have had more. I think it's going to push itself forward good solutions here. The enthusiasm of the foreign minister for the sale and the money we had received, I interpret as that this was an addition the foreign minister was pleased with, and as he thought it was nice to defend against the outside world, so maybe he will find it nice to defend even greater additions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e828	In its programme, the Left has a rather offensive wording on Home Affairs. A letter stating that the main challenge for Home Protection is a lack of adequate training – something we might agree with – and the Left will increase the training intensity of Home Protection. Then the question becomes, why will the left cut $6 million? Is it the intention to increase the training intensity, which costs money?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e835	From my memory – without having the numbers in front of me – we cut the Homeland Youth. It is a youth organisation that we believe is not so important to provide public support. It's not an activity that we think it's very important that the state goes in and sponsors. We're very much for Homeland Protection, but the fact that we're going to have young people in that kind of activity, we may not feel as important that the state contributes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e840	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e843	What kind of year was 2014, and what kind of year is 2015? If I were to point to three things, it is at least for the first time that 2014 was the year after the Second World War when we had most refugees and internally displaced people in the world. I'd like to think there's more than in the lifetime of someone in this room. It's probably sad to be in 2015. Secondly, 2015 will be the year we hope to conclude two very important global agreements: a new climate agreement in Paris and new Sustainable Development Goals, targets for development that will replace the so-called MDGs, the Millennium Development Goals, that we have had. Thirdly, 2014 was the year that once again changed the relationship between Russia and Western Europe, and one may fear that 2015 can be the year of a new cold war, or it may be the year that we finally find out that we need to find our security together in Europe. At Nrk.no last night, one could read that ‘UN is the money – asking for record billions’. Although it may have been a slight exaggeration, there is absolutely a truth in the fact that the need to contribute to humanitarian aid in the years to come is going to be enormously high. There will be huge appeals from the United Nations where it is extremely difficult to fill them, the biggest link to Syria, but also to a number of other countries, such as the United Nations. The Central African Republic, a country many in the Western world do not know where on the map exists, but with enormous humanitarian needs. The UN lacks the money. In this field, we know that the money comes out. The system exists. It's really just putting them out in life, so it saves a life. In the debate on receiving refugees, which will also be an important area where Norway could contribute more, many point out that neighbourhoods need to be more effective. But in Syria, the vicinity is becoming full. There are three million refugees around. I notice now that a number of Norwegian organisations have made an appeal to Norway and others to take the lead and accept some of the refugees who are most in need of help and who are being helped for the poor in the vicinity. It is based on this that SV has suggested that we provide an extraordinary billion for humanitarian aid in the year of more recent history when it is most needed in the world. It would look pretty and be a hugely important contribution from Norway's side. And then I also miss the government taking the lead in important areas where, over the next year, we're going to decide how we're developing the world together. They are to bet on education, but we are not in the vicinity of the climate initiative that can bring Lima, and later Paris, in the future. I've seen what taking the lead means for the climate area. When we launched the rainforest gorge, which had broad support in Stortinget, it was a promise of 3 billion. kr in the year before short time and a whole new international agenda – a theme was raised. What is now promised to the Green Climate Fund is not in the vicinity of it. I miss Norway once again trying to go with other rich countries through a massive economic boost. It's going to be one of the things that can change the dynamics towards Paris 2015. When it comes to the new development and resilience measures, it is very good that we take responsibility for education, but Norway could also bring in a broader and wider perspective. The government has chosen to downgrade distribution, which was one of the government's main moves towards the new goals. Internal distribution in poor countries is an enormously important factor in understanding why poverty in many places is so great, and it is important to do something about it. Equality must be displayed much more strongly from Norway's side. There are very few countries that are going to address controversial women’s issues and gender equality and take the lead in order to be important in the new development goals to an even greater extent than in the previous ones. Finally, Russia needs to be condemned for violations of international law in Ukraine, and there is reason to fear that Russia is now initiating a neighbourhood policy in which they provide for destabilising countries around them, such as Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, to promote their interests. But it is also necessary to find our security together, to have dialogue with Russia and to understand how we can ensure that we do not establish a new cold war, but a security order that will enable Europe to be held together and avoid a more dangerous situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e864	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e867	In its alternative budget, SV is adding to a decline in the defence budget by about 1 billion. kr – this in a situation where the security policy situation of Europe and Norway has changed and where several allies have cut their defence budgets. At the same time, the US warns that Europe must take a greater share of responsibility for its own security. The Defence Manager has signalled challenges for defence in the future. With this change in security policy, does SV believe that such a dramatic cut is appropriate and thus contribute to weakening Norway’s operational capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e874	It's defensive, but it's also completely correct. We're gonna cut down the JSM program. It's a program where we haven't been able to do what we explicitly said as an authority from Stortinget, to bring in several national partners. It is also not right to continue to do so, and it is important that decisions are followed up. We're also cutting down on Afghanistan participation. We believe it is the wrong priority – after 13 years – to continue with a significant contribution there. Rather, we should participate internationally in other places and strengthen the North Region effort. So we think that the defense has room for an extra efficiency beyond the government itself let in, and that there's a lot of agreement about here in the hall. That is what we do, for example. in order to be able to finance humanitarian aid globally in the recent year when there are more refugees and people than ever in need of humanitarian assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e883	I record that SV cuts in all areas of the budget outside of UN-led operations, i.e. in the defence budget. But I'm going to come to another question: SV went against the international operation against ISIL and the Norwegian contribution to Operation Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan when we debated this in the Stortinget on 15 November. SV leader Audun Lysbakken said Norway has to use its forces where Norway can make a difference. In the alternative budget, SV will remove all Afghanistan efforts in the defence budget. For eight years, while SV was in government, Norway contributed thousands of soldiers to ISAF operations in Afghanistan. Why does the SV go against the next mission, Operation Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan, which is to contribute to the training and advice of Afghan security forces in a critical transition phase that it is currently undergoing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e893	I suck at it. Firstly, we believe Norway should also give priority to being an even heavier civil and humanitarian contributor, including in Afghanistan. Secondly, it is a very long-term military contribution, and we believe that it would be a proper priority of Norway now to seek to contribute to some UN operations, for example. in Africa. When the committee was in the United Nations, on which the representative was also involved, we were presented with how little was the participation of Western and NATO countries in the UN-led operations, for example. in Africa, and how important it could be. We believe a re-prioritisation now of the Norwegian contribution after very many years of heavy Afghanistan participation will be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e902	SV is the only party outside a committee comment that also criticises Hamas. An overall committee, with the exception of SV, refers to the reality that Hamas and other militant groups have built up comprehensive military capabilities in Gaza with long-range missiles and infiltration tunnels. My question to representative Solhjell is why SV is breaking out of this consensus to point out this reality with missiles and infiltration tunnels. The question is whether SV disagrees with the existence of these tunnels and rocket launch ramps or whether this is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e907	There is absolutely no disagreement about the facts. If the contents of the note had been criticizing Hamas and other extreme groups in Gaza as shooting rockets, hiding in civilian places, etc., it would not be a problem. But the note is a presentation of the cause of the outbreak of the Gaza war that places the main responsibility on some groups of Gaza Strips. It's a very unfurnished representation. In that image, one must also have what is behind, namely the occupation of Israel, the long-standing violation of international law and the blockade of Gaza, which is a debauchery and has simply turned Gaza into a large open-air prison. Then one must also bear in mind that Israel chose an disproportionate use of power – choosing to go to a regular war, which is out of proportion to the threat to which they were subjected. There is another note here that the Progress Party is not part of. This was simply an unfurnished presentation of the cause, which I was surprised that many others would be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e914	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e917	When it comes to it, the most basic bond between people is that we divide the same planet, breathe in the same air, want the best for our children – and we're all people. John F. Kennedy's words about peace for students in Washington 50 years ago are, if possible, even more accurate today. More than ever, we realize that we are interdependent in order to have a good future. This recognition is the foundation of the Environment Party of the Greens' foreign policy. The consideration of the global community and of the future must govern how we define our national interests. Our neighbourhoods are now heavily affected by economic crisis. In southern Europe, up to half of those under 30 years of age are out of work. For us in Norway, it's almost impossible to imagine, but in our neighboring countries, a whole generation is losing hope. Today's economic system creates wealth, but it also creates great problems for earth's climate and future, and it creates great human tragedies. The Greens call for a more unorthodox debate on the international economic system of the future, where the quality of life for all on earth and sustainability, not unilateral growth, is the main objective of development. We are in the midst of the greatest refugee disaster in modern times. Last week, 1.7 million Syrian refugees received an SMS from the World Food Programme saying that their food was cut because of lack of money. Norway needs to take greater account of the fact that the enormous humanitarian tragedies in Syria, Iraq, South Sudan, the Central African Republic and elsewhere directly concern us. Of course, we need to do more to help. We have to accept more refugees, and the open arms with which our neighbouring country Sweden meets them should be an inspiration. The Greens believe that at first we should receive at least 5,000 quota refugees from Syria, and at the same time we should do what we can to help refugees in neighbouring countries. The Green Party therefore supports the proposal of the interesting alliance of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre for a review of how Norway can contribute better to housing solutions in the neighbourhoods. Our relationship with Russia is under pressure again. First of all, we have deep and many common interests with our neighbours in the east in very many areas. But the situation also calls for innovation. Today, as the representative Skei Grande has already been so lovable to show, I would like to mention one example, namely the development of the future of Svalbard. While the Norwegian state company is developing coal on Svalbard, the government spends a lot of time and effort telling the EU and the rest of the world that they will stop using coal and buy Norwegian gas instead. At the same time, the relationship with Russia is still used as an argument for Norwegian coal operations on Svalbard. It is time to do something about such a fossil foreign policy thinking, which helps to maintain a fossil and climate hostile activity. The limit was really exceeded when the government-appointed Skancke Committee last week used Norwegian coal activities on Svalbard as an argument against drawing State pension funds abroad from coal. We have to get out of this backyard. The time is ripe to end the Norwegian coal industry on Svalbard, which is now also losing, and to make the Svalbard community the world's most sustainable polar society. That is why we are tabling two proposals today: We will ask the government to start planning to further develop the Svalbard community with emphasis on sustainability, environmental research, a renewable energy base and new economic pathways. And we will ask the government to ensure that the coal mining operations on Svalbard are closed when the current mines are driven out. Svalbard has many others, good legs to stand on. The archipelago has a bright future without coal. This matter is a test of our will and ability to rethink both the climate and business in the north and the neighbourhood of Russia in the Arctic, where a forward-looking policy takes over coal mines as a symbol of Norwegian sovereignty. I would like to bring this up with the Greens' two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e940	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e945	I probably didn't get the first line because I'm the one who's most opposed to the entire post of the representative Hansson. What I want to ask is: I have noticed the Greens' Greens' proposal on climate finance. SV has another proposal on climate finance. We heard the representative Skei Grande say that she thinks there is a need for more in the years to come. I am relatively sure that there will be a broad consensus that Norway and other countries will have to contribute much more, and that there may be a need to see plans for it in southern countries, to get an agreement – first in Lima and later in Paris. Could the representative Hansson see it as a good idea of the parties in Stortinget who want a binding plan for climate finance, sit down and discuss it in agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e954	The Green Party has proposed a binding plan for long-term climate finance, corresponding to 1 pst. of gross national income, approx. 33 B.C.E. kr, which we believe can be derived from the State pension fund abroad, and which should be used for the UN climate fund, which according to the promises is to have 600 billion. NOK 400 million. from Norway. But that proposal is, of course, promoted in order to launch a debate. We appreciate that many parties, in different ways, have at least signalled understanding of the idea. I can confirm to the representative, Solhjell, that of course we would like to sit down with SV and as many other parties as possible to get to a long-term, well to mark a large scale, binding financing plan for Norwegian international climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e959	I have a very sincere question for the representative Hansson. At Svalbard you've come quite a long way to find ways to clean coal. This is a technology that should really build new power plants on the basis of. There are not so many other sources of energy on Svalbard. Now it is massively expanded with solar cells on everything new that is being built. It's very effective if there's a lot of light and low temperatures in the summer, which makes the solar panels very effective, but they might not be as effective in the dark. My question to the representative Hansson is: Is Hansson against the fact that we're extracting coal also if we're going to use it seam and clean it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e966	Thanks to the representative Skei Grande for an opportunity to clarify the following: In the Svea region, Norway produces several million tonnes of coal per year exclusively for export. It is the mining activity on Svalbard that needs to be shut down, because it rhymes extremely poorly with all Norwegian climate and energy policies. In Longyearbyen, there is a little bit of coal produced, a little bit of coal produced, compared to the large export production in Svea, such as in Sweden. goes to run the power plant. That coal production is not a problem. This coal production can be combined with sun, wind — it is blowing more and more on Svalbard because of climate change — and perhaps other types of energy carriers. Maybe coal can be baseload, while renewable energy produces most of the energy, and maybe the coal power plant can be cleaned. But it doesn't have to get in the way to stop what's the big problem, the big ball game from Svea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e973	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e977	The main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are fixed, but the world is not fixed. The world looks different today than it did a year ago, which has been attended by several representatives. Dramatic events in our eastern and southern neighbourhoods reinforce a trend in which foreign policy is becoming more and more domestic policy. Our values and interests are the same. They're stuck. They are universal and not Western. For a minority government in a geopolitical break-up time, it is very important to find common and good solutions in the Storting. It's good for the country. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee, and not least the chairman of the Committee, for what I have experienced as a very good cooperation in a difficult time. At a time when fundamental principles of our world order are being challenged, it is vital that we hold fast to what has brought us prosperity, prosperity, and security. That is why we stick to our friends and allies and continue to engage new actors. We hold our freedom and security high, and our stand is the UN, NATO and Europe. We stand for democracy, human rights and binding rules of law. We believe in cooperation and free trade. Russia’s violation of international law and the destabilisation of Ukraine spread uncertainty in Europe. The cohesion of NATO and the European Great Family has made it possible to provide Russia with a clear response that violations of international law will not pay off. Through economic and other cooperation, we will continue to support Ukraine's democratic course. The brutality of ISIL and other extremists shocks us. It is destabilising countries and regions on a terrifying scale, causing unimaginable suffering. We're going to help fight ISIL militarily, politically, ideologically and economically. Norway shall continue to be among the largest humanitarian contributors to Syria. It is essential that we assist neighbouring countries that accept large refugee flows from Syria. It is particularly important to strengthen the capacity of education to prevent us from losing a generation of Syrian children who fall outside the school system. Norway contributes significantly here, but it will be important to further increase efforts. No shock generation of Syrian children! The humanitarian needs of the world have increased dramatically. Today we are facing four humanitarian crises, defined as level 3 of the UN. Several representatives have been involved in this in a good and solid way. And there are great and unmet needs. It has to be reflected in the budget so that we can respond quickly and efficiently. By increasing humanitarian aid, as we have proposed both in the revised national budget, in the new age and in the next year's budget, we are better able to contribute to both acute and long-term crises. Next year, we're proposing an increase of 424 million. kr, more than SEK 3,3 billion. Total kr. The Ebola epidemic has shown that we also need to mobilise to prevent pandemics. It has also reminded us of the link between health and safety and between long-term development and emergency aid. I am pleased that there is broad support for a strong commitment to education. Education is a human right and a condition for growth, development and jobs. After just one year, the government has strengthened the education sector by 640 million. kr, from SEK 1,75 billion. kr to close to 2.4 br. kr. We will also further develop and increase Norway's efforts and global leadership role for health by nearly 3 billion. kr in support next year. In addition, it is worth reflecting that last year, at the same time, we had very limited funds dedicated to global climate funding. In the government proposal, we've added up to 200 million. kr in funding until next year. In Stortinget, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, it's put at 200 million. kr. Norway will grant 400 million. kr next year, but I've also made it clear that the next four years will be at least at this level, 400 million. NOK, so we commit to SEK 1.6 billion. kr in the coming period. If we look at the promises given both now in Lima and the promises made at the donor country meeting, Norway is at the top, if not at the top, with this promise – in relation to the population. I think it's worth including in a debate where it's presented as if we might not do that much. We're doing a lot, but the needs are great, so we'll of course keep assessing, as the representative Skei Grande was about, how we're going to contribute more if we can get more. In addition to humanitarian aid, we give priority to education, health and vaccines, industrial development, equality, climate and human rights. Development cooperation must deliver concrete results for the poorest. We focus efforts on a smaller number of countries, while strengthening efforts in twelve focus countries. At the same time, we stress that this concentration should not include non-governmental organisations and humanitarian aid. We will come back to Stortinget to anchor this important process further. In the northern regions, Norway is a major act, and we have important interests to care for. Extensive north-eastern diplomacy and international cooperation in the Arctic are more important than ever. Among other things, we see: to cooperate with the United States, which is the current presidency of the Arctic Council. We've proposed Northern Region measures for almost three billion. kr in 2015. That's an increase of well over half a billion dollars, $574 million. kr, based on the calculation method used by the previous government. I'm the first to admit that this calculation method has its sides, but it at least illustrates that it's a willingness to continue the bet in the north and also increase it. We see more clearly than ever that foreign policy becomes domestic policy. This is illustrated by epidemics, refugee flows, terrorist threats and foreign fighters, but also through an open economy and cross-border cooperation. It is a strength for Norway that there is a cross-political consensus on the broad lines of foreign policy, which I was in the midst of. The 2015 budget takes care of our long-term interests and makes us more resilient in times of crisis. With this budget, we can continue to contribute internationally with our allies. This budget allows Norway to take international leadership in key areas such as health, education and humanitarian matters. The challenges facing the world in 2015 are great, but I believe that we will adopt a budget in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' responsibilities that is well adapted to the geopolitical challenges we see and the humanitarian challenges that the world is experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1011	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1014	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and Prospective contribution. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Norwegian foreign policy is firm. My question is whether Norwegian foreign policy is also firm in terms of the objectives of a world free of nuclear weapons. I Prop. 1 it says: ‘Norway shall be an active contributor to maintaining and strengthening a predictable international legal order, including a driving force for a strengthened non-proliferation regime, and a successful NPT supervision cycle.’;» It's now the goal. There is something other than what the previous government had as its objective, which was that it was clear and clear: ‘Achieve a world free of weapons of mass destruction based on commitments and verifiable agreements covering all countries.’ Is there any change in Norwegian policy in this area, as this has been taken as a target in the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1031	First, thank you for the nice words. I can repeat what I said in my speech, that we have had important and good cooperation, not least with the committee chairman, in the year that has passed. There is now a collection in Vienna on these important questions that Huitfeldt's representative addresses, and we had a good discussion in the Stortinget linked to an interpellation by the representative Skei Grande, if I remember correctly – at least from the Left – in spring. What we agreed on there, and laid down, and what the government is working on – that is, what was also the starting point for the previous government – was the vision of a nuclear-free world. This is a work that is incredibly important. In addition, it is important that the representative is also involved – the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, not least nuclear weapons, in view of the terrorist organisations and regimes we face in many parts of the world. Of course, we must prevent them from getting access to such a destructive weapon as nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1038	I thank you for a good answer, but I would like to ask very specifically: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that it is a goal for Norway to achieve a world free of weapons of mass destruction based on binding and verifiable agreements that cover all countries? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that this is an objective of his foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1043	We had a good discussion about this in connection with the interpellation, and I said just this and confirmed that our goal is a nuclear-free world. We share that vision. It's a majority in the Storting. What has been added in recent days is the discussion of a ban on nuclear weapons. What we've chosen, and I think it's important that we stand together, is the vision of a nuclear-free world, which is a much safer and better world. This is a long-term work based on important humanitarian principles. An important humanitarian principle is to distinguish between those who are fighting and the civilian population. None of these weapons of mass destruction are capable of distinguishing between them. That's, among other things, the basis for this commitment, which I share, and which I think we're all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1048	I would also like to thank you for a good post and repeat what I said, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing a great job representing Norway around the world. He takes responsibility and shows a great commitment to the enormous suffering we see around the world. Although the Christian People's Party should still like to have a Minister for Development, we are certainly pleased with the commitment shown by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that he uses the opportunities he has to lift the world's poorest every time he has the opportunity to do so. That's why I want to ask the Secretary of State about these appeals that the United Nations sent out, about 117 billion. kr, as they warn that they need it next year in order to do the humanitarian work to help almost 60 million people who are on the run. How does he understand that Norway and the Minister for Foreign Affairs can help to get other countries to meet those appeals, not just with promises and words, but so that there is money on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1053	Thank you for inspiring words, and not least thank you for your cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left in designing the next year's budget. We have a sharp increase in the Norwegian development budget for next year. It has never been so high — it is historically high — and we see that many other countries do not actually increase their development budget in line with what Norway is doing now. We also put up a significant increase in humanitarian spending. It is essential in a situation where we see that there are so many global needs. I also believe that what we do in health and, not least, education supports the humanitarian work. Norway will take its share of the responsibility to help meet the important appeals made by the United Nations and will come forward within the framework set by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1058	I would like to support the fact that there was a good and far-reaching perspective at the post of the Foreign Minister. In this setting, a joint committee emphasises that sub-Saharan Africa continues to have the highest priority in Norwegian aid. One has noticed that about a quarter of the population in sub-Saharan Africa have been exposed to sulphur and one pointed out that more needs to be done to ensure that this region has access to water and nutrition. What will the Council of State do to help Norway access water and food as the most basic of the poorest in this continent and in other parts of the world where a similar state exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1063	Thanks also to Navarsete for nice words, there will be a clean Christmas atmosphere here in the hall now. That is an important question raised by the representative. The world's population is increasing rapidly, and there's a lot of evidence that we're going from seven billion to ten billion people by 2050. Then you will see the enormous need for increased food production, and there is a great need for this to happen within a sustainable framework. Climate change makes this more difficult, deserting makes it more difficult, and limited access to water makes it more difficult. That is why we have set up the aid budget with focus countries, so that these are important elements of Norwegian development policy – to focus on the possibility for people to feed themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1070	Norfund has been debated, both when we negotiated the budget, and in the public. In the budget negotiations, we introduced a restriction on gas, which I believe is important and correct. Then, as a result of the government’s country concentration, there has also been a concentration in the number of countries, but it is opening up for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to assess this in individual cases. So I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: will this be a very rigorous assessment, or will an evaluation of the strength of the projects related to the individual applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1078	Norfund is one of the major investments in this budget and is being allocated many new funds in 2015. It's good business activity, and it's good development policy. What the government has presented to the Stortinget is a general starting point, that we should implement a conservative concentration of Norwegian development aid — from 116 countries to 84 countries. But even it has created some debate – it has been fascinating to follow. We have initially made exceptions for humanitarian organisations. We forgot to write that in the proposition. It created a little extra work. Then we have made exceptions for non-governmental organisations. An organisation such as Norfund is initially covered by this, but there is a dispensation access. If there are clear reasons why it makes sense to make exceptions, you have to look at it, and we'll be able to take advantage of that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1087	After all the honorary orders that have flown, it may seem almost insensitive to go right on the matter. I'll do it anyway. I noticed that the Foreign Minister did not actually reply confirmatoryly or corroboratingly to the question raised by Mr Huitfeldt about the wording of the last draft budget of the previous government, which reads: ‘Achieve a world free of weapons of mass destruction based on commitments and verifiable agreements covering all countries.’ So this was a goal. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirm or decline that this is still the government's objective? Then he said that the forbidden discussion had come up in the last few days. Well, maybe it can explain that he stood out as a little bit of a surprise, because that discussion is not quite new. Now Norway has kept posts in Vienna, and we haven't taken any initiative in that direction. Many countries support a ban. Is it relevant for Norway to support a ban on nuclear weapons, such as we have banned chemical weapons, biological weapons and other types of weapons that are dangerous and that Norway has been involved in pushing forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1101	What I said, was perhaps to make it even clearer, in line with what I said in connection with the interpellation debate in ours. The government supports the wording of the previous government – of which the representative Solhjell was a member – the wording referred to by the chairman of the committee. That was the conclusion of the debate in ours, and this is the majority in the Grand Duchy. I support it. When it comes to going another step further — from the desire for a humanitarian context and having a vision and a desire for a nuclear-free world to say that one should work for a ban here and now — it is going beyond what the previous government did. I believe that we should use the consensus that I perceive is in Norway and in the United Kingdom, based on the work of the previous government, and use it as a basis for Norway's active international work on humanitarian disarmament.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1108	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1111	Somewhere in Norway, there are soldiers on guard at all times. We have soldiers who are in international operations, we follow a strong and good Norwegian tradition of setting up when the international community asks us to do so, and we watch and closely follow developments in our neighbourhoods. We live in a very complex, unpredictable world. We have a permanently changed relationship with Russia. We have a permanent change in our security policy environment, and I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for having, on short notice, on many occasions during this year, set up consultations in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. In the 2015 budget, the government provides for a significant and real strengthening of the overall allocation to the Defence. We want to give priority to operational capabilities, including: by maintaining a high level of activity in the structure. We want to contribute to more practice and training and continue to feed new and modern materials. All sectors of defence and Home Affairs are strengthened, and we are following the consistent line we have had from the additional proposal for the 2014 budget through the revised national budget and to this budgetary position. We want to strengthen our presence in the north, and it has been added to the plank increasing activity of the Coast Guard in 2015. The changes we're going to make will take time. After eight red-green years, we see that there are some significant deficiencies in the defence structure. What employees have thought to be particularly challenging and frustrating is that it has not been accepted to talk about these deficiencies. This government is in contrast with our predecessors honestly about the challenges. We talk about them, and we recognize them. We are faced with many difficult choices, tough priorities and clear choices. Efficiency measures in the sector have been a tough, internal re-prioritisation for many years. We must acknowledge that it is. We protect operational capacity and thus increase in all budget areas in order to strengthen operational capacity over time. We're adding over 1.4 billion. kr extra in the budget, dried 3,3 pst. I am very pleased that there is such a strong support in the Storting for the important work that is now being done on the reform of competence. In addition, the same support is strong for the work done with veterans – a very important field for the government, where we have invested almost 300 million. Just this last year to follow up our veterans better. We're adding extra resources to the acquisition of fighter planes and JSM. This is the historic capacity vent for the Defense, not just for the Air Force. It's going to significantly strengthen our operational capability over time, and that's something that the whole Storting, except SV, stands behind. It is also important for the government to support social security. In the budget, we help reduce the response time on the helicopter, so that we can strengthen our support for the police. We reduce the response time from two hours to one hour, which is very important to assist the police daily. So one single thing I'd like to brief you about. As regards the changed arrangements of cleaning services in the defence sector, I am concerned that this conversion will be carried out in a responsible and sound manner. The staff concerned shall be governed by the agreements in force and the arrangements made by the State in other respects. It is now foreseen that the conversion will be carried out as a business transfer, which means that predictability of the future job situation for employees can be created. The government's draft defence budget for 2015 is a good budget, which at the same time is characterised by soberness, realism and clear priorities. We are following a consistent line with the gradual escalating of the budgets from the supplementary budget in 2014 through the revised national budget and now to this proposition. We propose a significant increase in funding for defence, while tight management and the most efficient use of resources in all areas of activity will be crucial both in following the current long-term plan and in creating a robust starting point for the further development of the sector as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1132	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1135	I would like to thank the Minister for his very good cooperation in the year that has passed. There have been many difficult decisions that she has made, and we have been consulted in a good way. Changes take time, said the Minister of Defense, after eight red-green years. But it doesn't take that long to implement what Eriksen Soreide said in the opposition was possible. Every time anyone asks about the defence budget, the Minister of Defense does what she is best at, namely to criticise the red-green parties, but now the Minister of Defence has the responsibility of sea, and there are many who have had great expectations that the Minister of Defence will carry out what she said as a representative in opposition. There are many people who are probably listening to now, defence friends who wonder if the Minister for Defence is proud of the budget that is now being presented. Is that in line with what she thinks is necessary for the defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1142	What I like best is to talk about our own policies, and I do that in every possible context every single day. When I say changes take time, it's in recognizing that we're going to be able to achieve one of the main goals, as we see it, namely to create better operational capability through greater depth and endurance in the structures, it's going to take time. It's a confession with us, but as our predecessors didn't want. We have challenges in that field. This means that over time we have prioritised defence differently than what we think is important to do now, namely to provide an operational capability that has depth and stamina in the structures. It's not done in one year, it's not done from one budget to another, and it's also one of the main reasons why we've now asked the Chief of Defense to draw up a new professional-military advice to give us just those tools. One of the things that the head of defense is most concerned about, and that I fully agree with the head of defense, is that we have to be able to make more parts of our structure clear in a shorter time than we can do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1147	I think we all agree that the greatest challenge of getting a defense for our time will depend on the implementation of the long-term plan for the next period. Norway's main ability to defend our country's territories is the mechanized and modernized brigade. Following up the modernisation and further development of the Army is essential in order to be able to meet our obligations in the upper part of the crisis spectrum, which I know the Minister of Defence is committed to, both in order to enable the defence sectors to cooperate as provided for in a networked defence and in order to cooperate with, and, ultimately, to accept, allied reinforcements in a crisis situation. We are many who are concerned that the Army's material is about to be out of date. So my question is simply: will the government follow up and implement the greatest modernisation of the Army since the Marshall aid, and not least implement the adopted long-term plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1152	I'm glad that the representative Simensen is raising the question of the Army. We have arranged, both in this budget and in the revised national budget, to provide for the strengthening of both the Army and the Home Office, because the things he points to are very important. It is also one of the shortcomings we have now seen over time, namely the ability to assist allies, if necessary, and not least accept allied reinforcement, on which our entire defence concept is based, and which is therefore crucial. The army will have a reinforcement of about 66 million. kr in the budget currently available. In addition, a historic modernisation of the Army's material - both CV90, which has now gradually begun to roll out of the factory, and subsequently the modernisation and upgrading of Leo, i.e. the tanks of the Army. These are very important projects, they're very high priority of the Army itself, and we're going to help carry on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1159	When the Right sat in opposition, the party wrote the following comment to the previous government’s defence budget for 2013: ‘Despite positive developments, these members will therefore express their continuing concern about the situation in Defence and believe that the Government does not demonstrate sufficient ability and willingness to recognise and address underlying imbalances and problems that may have a significant impact on operational capacity and economic sustainability over time in both the short and long term.’ Today's defence minister was a very keen critic of the fact that budgets did not increase adequately in the time of the red-green government. The Ministry of Defence considers that the defence’s operational capacity to contribute to the collective defence of Norway and NATO has fallen. And given that the Right was so concerned about the situation in the Defense before, it's surprising that the budget doesn't have any bigger additions than it has. How does the Minister of Defence assess the notified defence budget in the light of the warnings about the low defence budget they gave earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1172	I think the representative Navarsete came up with really good quotes, which I fully appreciate, and which I have also repeated here. One of the results of four out of eight red-green years was a real decline in the budget, is that we have some challenges of depth and endurance in the structures, on which the representative sailed into his main post. And that's an important point. There are essentially two reasons why a challenge is faced for the ability to conduct collective defence. One is a technical challenge: crack formations on F-16. It's been briefed on in many ways, and it's a problem we're now working to solve as fast as we can. The second is the ability of logistics and logistics preparedness, and that ability has not deteriorated from last year to this year, it has been built down over time, and the previous government must be involved in taking its share of responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1179	I would like to address a topic that I have raised with the Minister of Defence before, which lies between defence and justice, but which is crucial, namely the research we are making on extremism in the future: extremism in its various forms, with different groups that may be relevant, research to understand, to prevent and, of course, to be able to deal with the challenge if it is there. In view of that, I am a little surprised at the 45-mill cut. kr to the strategic research resources currently in the budget. But what I can think of challenging the Council of State is: can she assure us that this will not involve a cut in research on extremism from the Department of Defence's side? Can she, rather on the contrary, promise us that she, along with the Minister of Justice, will make sure that the research is increased and strengthened in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1184	I thank you for a good question. Fortunately, I would say, over the year we have built up a world-leading environment at the Swedish Defence Research Institute, the FFI, particularly on Islamist terrorism. It's an environment that's world-leading, and whose researchers are used in a lot of other contexts. In addition, the FFI has also over time been able to maintain the part of its basic allocation used for research on radicalisation. These are environments that we're interested in building up under. They're doing very important research, and it's quite right, as Solhell's representative says, that this is a little bit at the intersection of defence and justice. It is important that civil research institutes are also used here to work on the part of this that is about how to do it, for example. must combat radicalisation here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1189	I thought it was an insightful contribution, but what I was going to ask about was whether that article would lead to concrete improvements in precisely those environments and a strengthening of the permissions, because they collect the permits for strategic research in the budget, as it goes down by 45 million. kr. I would like to have a clarification from the Minister of Defense – I understand that she may not be able to now say what each krona is going to go to – whether it is her intention that it does not go beyond extremism research, but that one rather strengthens it. In particular, I would also like to ask if she will also make sure that we keep up a research on right-wing extremism – not just Islamism – which, after all, has been shown to have some meaning in the last few years of Norwegian history.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1194	If you use the FFI as an example – FFI is one of many research environments that can help to research this and thus have world-leading environments especially in the field of Islamist terrorism – there are two parts of the funding. One is the strategic component, the other is basic research. The basic research appropriations have been strengthened in this budget. It is an important contribution to maintaining exactly what the representative Solhjell and I are committed to: strengthening these environments that are researching in very important areas. I think it's important that we not only make sure to strengthen research in the right-hand extreme environments, but in extreme extremist environments evenly above, because this threat can come from very many teams, and it's important that we don't stare blindly at one of them, although there are also many common features between the extreme environments that come from slightly different sides. So, yes, strengthening these environments is important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1199	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1202	No international organisation is more important for Norway than the EU. No cooperation means more for Norwegian everyday life than the EU, and no market is more important for Norwegian enterprises than the European market. This is why Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe, and that is why there is also a broad consensus on Norwegian European policy in this Chamber. I would like to thank the Committee and its chairman for the good cooperation that has taken place this year. The EEA provides predictability for Norwegian companies in what is our home market. 80 pst. Of the goods we sell, go to the EU, 65 pst. of the goods we buy come from the EU. 60 pst. Norwegian investment goes to the EU, 70 pst. of foreign investment in Norway comes from the EU and 7 pst. of all employed persons in Norway are workers from the EU. It goes without saying that it is important for Norway how this domestic market develops. Europe is now facing an economic situation that calls for more growth and more competitiveness. This will require major structural reforms in many countries, greater labour market mobility will be required, responsible and long-term economic policies will be required, and necessary incentives both at national and European level will be required. In the global picture, the negotiations on TTIP, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement, could be of great importance. Free trade over the Atlantic can be a vitamin injection both for the transatlantic region and for the world economy. The alternative to new growth is deeper economic and social problems in Europe and a Europe that is becoming weaker in the world. It's not in Norway's interest. Norway contributes to the fight against economic and social inequalities in the least prosperous EU country. The EEA funds are a Norwegian solidarity contribution. There is no quota for participation in the EEA, it is a solidarity contribution where we contribute to reducing social and economic disparities in the most vulnerable areas of the EU. But these funds also help to strengthen the internal market, because by creating more growth, by creating more equal conditions in Europe, we also strengthen the functioning of the internal market. There is one background that the government in the next programming period will want to place greater emphasis on measures for innovation, growth and jobs in the device of EEA funds than we have seen in the past. As I said, this is not quota money. They are not going to the European Union either, but to individual countries. But the EEA funds are the result of an international agreement, they are the result of an agreement that gives substance to the term of honor we often use, i.e. binding international cooperation. I'm recording that the Center Party wants to break this agreement for next year by cutting $2.50. kr in it. Breaking a binding international agreement with an international organisation of such importance to Norway is unwise. Wanting to do so in the same year as we are in difficult negotiations with the EU on the next agreement period for EEA funds, is – yes, President, it almost fails to characterise itself. We are negotiating new EEA funds. These are difficult negotiations that have been going on since January of this year. As you know, the EU requires a sharp increase in our contribution, which we consider unreasonable, as their own resources for social economic development only have a minor increase in the current budgetary period. There should be no doubt about Norway’s willingness to continue and its willingness to contribute. We are pleased that the negotiations are going on again, but the distance is still very great. We hope to get ahead of them now, precisely because these contributions can play a role in balancing living conditions in Europe, and precisely because we want – in the next period – to focus more on growth-enhancing measures in the recipient countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1224	In its presentation earlier this autumn, the Minister of Europe said that the government wants to use Nordic cooperation more actively in European policy and that Nordic cooperation is increasingly part of European integration. In addition, more and more countries are looking at the Nordic region, looking at our ability to ensure exactly what the Council of State has just said in its speech, namely work, growth, well-being and innovation. Then my question is: how will the Council of States use Nordic cooperation for innovation and growth in Europe? Is it perhaps that part of the right-wing parties in Europe's savings policy is counterproductive, and that instead it is necessary to stimulate growth, development and innovation in European countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1231	In a Europe that is surrounded by instability and a Europe that itself is plagued by weak economic growth and major social challenges, the Nordic region and the Nordic-Baltic region are much of a region of hope, and therefore we also see a great potential in strengthening and deepening Nordic cooperation and Nordic-Baltic cooperation in European policy. It is also about research, innovation and new growth efforts in Europe. In that picture, I think it hears from the fact that we in the Nordic region have a good tradition of how we organize our society. In the EEA funds, we have inter alia: supported tripartite cooperation and dialogue on decent work. We will look at the fight against labour crime, etc. In terms of responsible economic policy, or cut policy, we see that some of the Nordic and Baltic countries are examples of good performance achieved through tightening and economic reform. So here there are both incentives and contractions that may be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1238	One of the first things the state council did when he joined last fall was to travel to Brussels and tell the government that it wanted to change the percentage of hard oysters and hortensia back to the krone toll, but forgot to secure a majority for this in the hall. The government is now engaged in difficult negotiations, as the Council of State said, also called Article 19 negotiations with the EU on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. Will the Council of State respect the majority here in the Chamber of Customs, and not come back to the Grand Duchy with an agreement where the rate of duty is again in dollars and not in percentages?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1246	It is good that I have the opportunity to clarify what I actually said in Brussels over a year ago. There I expressed what was the government's view, but I was also very clear that this was a big decision, that the government was not a majority government, and that it would therefore require a big deal of treatment. But it was important for us to signal to the European Union what is this government's position, that we should not introduce new protectionist measures, and that in a meeting where the European Union would expect to hear from us what we meant, we actually said what we meant. Now that we are faced with Article 19 negotiations, it is not right for me to comment on it until we know the content of the mandate and before we start the negotiations, so that we know what is on the requirements list first, and before we can design a mandate in consultation with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1253	First, I would like to thank the State Council for providing a 650-page overview of the use of EEA funds. It was a solid and very useful reading material – a lot of project, where some are good, some are less good, but as many of them have little or nothing to do with cushioning and action against poverty, with the solidarity that the Council of State underlined in its contribution. The European message and the National Audit Office ask both questions about the means of just economic and social cohesion in a good way, in what was referred to as a completely freewill solidarity contribution – but which I understand to be involved in tough negotiations on whether, in spite of the fact, there is a lack of freedom. I have also broken many of the EEA Agreement’s commitments — perhaps when it comes to district policy, alcohol policy, the right to dispose of natural resources — so it’s not that bad if we change some of the Norwegian authorities. However, can the Council of State guarantee that all the projects in this 650-page coliseum actually contribute to cushioning and poverty measures, and in fact is solidarity in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1267	It is generous of the representative Navarsete to thank for the 650 pages, because it is her own government that has written them to every extent. It is a project portfolio designed during the contract period that has now expired. I cannot guarantee that each of the 650-page projects itself contributes to economic and social cohesion – but that the totality does so is my conviction. It is in this way that we have an objective, through these means, to strengthen bilateral relations between the countries. This applies, for example: the maritime museum in Gdansk. Norway and Poland are two countries with proud maritime traditions. I'm at least proud of the Norwegian maritime traditions, and that it's marked in bilateral cooperation, I don't see anything bad in it, although the growth promotion of it may be limited to the jobs it creates in Gdansk.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1274	I noticed that the first sentence of the European Minister’s speech was: ‘No international organisation is more important for Norway than the EU.’ What is the background for the government to believe that the EU is a more important international organisation than the UN and NATO, of which we are a member?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1279	The EEA and our cooperation with the EU are most important for Norway as the weight of this cooperation affects Norwegian everyday life. All Norwegian municipalities, so to speak, all Norwegian educational institutions and the vast majority of jobs are affected by this cooperation. Therefore, this is a practical everyday reality for Norway. There is no international organisation that affects Norwegian society anymore. This means that we are serious about saying that Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. The organisation that primarily forms European policies is the EU, and therefore our relationship with the EU is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1284	However, I am a little surprised that the Council of State confirms a view that the EU is actually the most important organisation for Norway in foreign policy, all the time when our security is a basis for all other policies. Even if one can have a different view of it, then a large majority, including both government parties, has chosen Norway to be a member of NATO and build on it. The UN is also part of our security and, in addition, the only global organisation that can handle very many of the major global challenges that we have discussed here today. There is broad support for Norway joining the UN – as far as I know – and there is a large majority for us to be in NATO, but Norway has chosen not to be in the EU. Does the Minister for Europe he has supported in Stortinget believe that the EU is a more important organisation for Norway than the UN and NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1289	Let me make it clear to the representative, Mr Solhjell, that there should be no doubt that for our security anchoring, NATO is the most important organisation. In fact, for Norwegian daily reality, the EU is, through the EEA Agreement, the most important of all international organisations. It's a fact that's quite irrevocable. But it's not about these being competitive. The Committee, through its comments, underlined the importance of strategic cooperation between the EU and NATO. The EU is also our main partner in multilateral relations, including: in the ongoing climate negotiations, and in the context of the United Nations, so there is no need to build up any contradiction here. The impact of EU decisions on everyday reality in Norway is beyond doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1294	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1297	In the last ten years, the northern regions have been given their most deserved place on the political agenda. Norway's involvement in the north has been strengthened, and the interest in our involvement in the north has been strengthened, both nationally and internationally. Important milestones have been reached in recent years. The division line agreement is a keyword. Other key points are that the illegal overfishing in the Barents Sea is combated, that our research and knowledge environments in the north – in the north – are strengthened, that the Barents Sea is established as a new energy region in Europe, and that we have put in place management plans for the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea. For North Norway, this commitment has also meant an active policy for growth, which in turn has resulted in increasing population and thousands of new jobs. This is a result of conscious political priorities, and it is also an expression of the functioning of policy and international cooperation. It should also serve as an inspiration to continue and further develop an active north-eastern policy at a time that requires both commitment and wisdom to meet climate change, in order to address the environmental challenges of increasing shipping and new industrial activities, in order to think forward about the Svalbard community, which is currently being hit by falling coal prices, in order to ensure that geographical location, rich natural resources and external interest can continue to be transferred to the growth and development of the north-norwegian part of the country, and, last but not least, to manage our neighbourhood with Russia. When the Prime Minister earlier this fall presented the government's north-eastern policy, she said to go from dialogue to action. It is unclear why the government believes that dialogue in the north is something you should do less of. We see that our neighbouring country Russia is increasing its activity, investing more and modernising defence in the northern regions. Despite the disagreement about Russian behaviour in Ukraine, the relationship with our great neighbour in the east is characterized by low tension and cooperation. With today's political development in Russia, our Northern Territory initiative plays an even more important role in safeguarding Norwegian foreign policy interests than before. The joint projects and institutions built over the last few years need to be strengthened to contribute to dialogue and cooperation. Not since the fall of the wall has the dialogue between Russian and Norwegian local and regional politicians been more important than today. People-to-people cooperation, joint crisis preparedness and common interests related to fisheries management and maritime law contribute to strengthening Russian and Norwegian joint interests in the north. Good dialogue can prevent new disagreements in our border areas. That is why there is no dialogue that we should abandon, but dialogue should be strengthened instead. Over eight years in opposition, the Right Party and the Advance Party have criticised the Northern Territory bet for the Red-Green Government. It also expressed today's Minister for Foreign Affairs when he joined last autumn. He was impatient, and he wanted concrete results quickly. Now it's been over a year, and I think it's unclear to more than me what kind of quick, concrete results the Right Party government has to refer to. One concrete result is, unfortunately, that the government's fiscal policy has also gone beyond the defence budget, which is now below the level of the long-term plan. I note that the Minister of Defence in a change of lines here earlier today would not answer if her own budget was good, and that instead she pointed to investigations by the head of defence coming in a year. And there's a marked difference from the Right in the opposition, which would have 600 million. kr more to the Defence. Before that, the Right would grant more, now the Right will determine more. It also seems that the Minister of Defence was more interested in talking about the challenges of the red-green government than the challenges we are now facing. The Northern Area Report of the Government, the Northern Globe, provides many good analyses and descriptions. But it is difficult to see in a clear direction for the Norwegian bet in the north, in Norway and in the Arctic. There are no signs of clear ambitions in which the government commits itself to investment and initiative. In the draft budget for 2015, the government proposed a series of cuts in the North Sea effort. The budget agreement has removed the worst cuts, but the Northern Region profile as such did not improve. The Labour Party believes that Norway should maintain a broad perspective on the development of the northern regions, as reflected in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1312	There is a great deal of agreement in Norway about our aid budget, because it has to be large. The government proposed to use 32.5 billion. kr in 2015, it was over 1 billion. kr more than in the last year's budget. But after the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the increase is another nearly 500 million. So it's going to be $33 billion. kr. What characterises this budget — alongside large-scale spending on education and girls — is a greater focus on results. The government has presented an aid reform. Until last year, Norway’s assistance was smearingly thin - up to 116 out of 143 possible countries. The OECD review of Norwegian aid addressed the issue of a recommendation to strengthen performance orientation and concentrate efforts. Many of our large aid organisations have already done so. Careful concentration of assistance and also focus on 12 focus countries is a significant change in Norwegian aid policy. This is done to achieve better and more measurable results and more effective assistance. The most important thing is what comes out of the use of money and the effort – results that show that Norwegian aid works. The government will come back to Stortinget with a case about this. It is worth noting that this geographical concentration does not include the work done by non-governmental organisations. Nor shall the concentration prevent Norwegian humanitarian action in crisis situations or exclude the possibility of supplementing emergency assistance with longer-term prevention assistance to prevent crises. I think that's good. In some of the focus countries we're talking about, human rights are at best on shivering feet. It must have our constant attention. Human rights, including respect for opposition, freedom of religion, civil society and freedom of the press, are absolute reasons to follow closely and also to have a dialogue with our partners about, because increasing pressure on human rights is often the first sign of a country developing in the wrong direction. The first 15-year report on human rights is presented in a short time. It's alerted a change of pace in this effort. Human rights are the third pillar of the UN, and Norway is working to strengthen it. We can never accept attempts to relativize human rights. Authorities shall not be able to circumvent them by reference to traditional values or the principle of non-interference. We provide – and will continue to provide – comprehensive support to organisations and individuals working to promote human rights in countries with major challenges in this area. This budget also has a large investment in education and girls. Education for all is not just a human right; it is a condition for growth and development. This is why the government is proposing a sharp increase in support for education in poor countries. In 2015, $2.4 billion. go to education. That's an increase of 550 million. kr in relation to 2014. Education is essential for eradicating extreme poverty. Millions of children are still out of school today. Children affected by war and conflict, girls and disabled people are particularly vulnerable. Government parties will pay particular attention to the education of girls. Girls who receive education, get married later, have children later, have more opportunity to get a job and get better health for themselves and for their own children. In sub-Saharan Africa, infant mortality is estimated to have been reduced by up to 40 pst. if the mothers had had had proper schooling. Education is the key to informed choices later in life and affects relationships such as child marriage, sexual mutilation, child mortality and general health in the population. Focusing on education in crisis and conflict situations is not least an investment in stability, democracy and development. With additional funds allocated to this, the government’s objective is to contribute to the access of one million more children living in crisis and conflict situations to quality education up to 2017. And the very important thing: people with disabilities are the most marginalized in education. This group shall be prioritised. Health is a topic for which Norway has been committed and which has had a global leadership role for many years. The concerns of the committee leader were heard when the Prime Minister launched the call for proposals for training in the aid and the major effort in this respect. It was thought that Norway would now reduce its global health effort. “But no, on the contrary, the government is increasing global health efforts by 150 million. kr to almost 3 billion. kr for the coming year, with the aim of maximising the results for the Millennium Goals on Health. The conclusion is that a good aid budget is on the table. I have more on my heart when I come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1341	I also have a little bit on my heart. The head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which unfortunately is not in the Chamber now, polemises both in the Chamber and in the media – I would say – in a small way. I've called it a modern form of Tuppen and Lillemor policy. The defense is facing very demanding changes. In fact, shifts have become a constant part of the everyday life of the defence. At the same time, we feel that the committee's chairman is taking time and effort to claim that her defence budget meets the long-term intentions, because her budget is 43,931 million. kr, while the government grants 43 817 million. kr. This difference represents 1⁄4 per million of the total defence budget. According to the Chairman of the Committee, this quarter shall constitute the difference between the achievement of the objectives of LTP and the non-compliance with the objectives of LTP. Therefore, as in the song, the chairman of the committee does not give the Minister of Defence the opportunity to ‘slid on the cellar limb’, as it is called. At a time when NATO and Norway face demanding and unpredictable challenges, it is our task as the country's leading defence politicians to raise their eyes and have visions of the future role of defence. The rapid changes in the security policy situation with budgetary policy of 1⁄4 per million are not met, but with visions of what tasks the defence will solve. The Minister of Defence should therefore be commended for realizing so quickly that she needs specialist military advice on how to set up Norwegian defence in order to meet the new challenges. As the Minister of Defence himself said in the announcement of such a advice: we need a ‘minimum possible change of words about the challenges we face’. If such a word change is to be of sufficient relevance, it is essential that the defence manager should work independently and that the conclusions drawn and recommendations promoted are not restricted by economic leadership or by what is considered politically possible. Just as the Scheel Committee independently recommended independent tax changes in order to maintain economic sustainability, so the management of the defence must identify the necessary structural elements, personnel and organisation. It will then be up to us in this House to make economic and defence policy priorities. The Progress Party notes with satisfaction that the development of F-35 is on track, that Norway’s acquisition of up to 52 fighter aircraft keeps its budget, and that the project is seen in totality, including necessary construction and facilities on Ørland. The aim must be to further reduce the unit price, which should be able to release resources for combat aircraft-related expenditure. It is also very positive that the development of the Joint Strike Missile on Kongsberg continues, and that more and more potential customers of the missile are being identified. JSM is one of Norway's largest technological industrial promises over time, and something we should all know to value. Kongsberg's position in the world is significant, the company is innovative, and its various units cause the company to have spin-off effects between civil and military technology. Kongsberg is the only company in Norway today that can take an idea for a product. Therefore, I have to add that it will be very unwise for the state to sell itself into the company. Norwegian aid policy has been characterised by oil money-financed altruism for many years. Assistance has been almost impractically defined as positive and has led to the conscience of some. In the tax context, today we have an aid budget of $12,000 per person employed in Norway. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that this limited way of considering assistance is over. Of course, the results of the aid are the only significant ones. Money is not a measure, it's a means. The Progress Party therefore takes a very positive view of the aid reform that is now being implemented. A sharp reduction in the number of aid countries, combined with a special effort on 12 designated countries, will allow an evaluation of the effective functioning of the assistance and, as a consequence, halt aid to countries that do not achieve results in line with the objectives of the assistance. Assistance shall not be a sleeping cushion either for the donor or for the recipient. The focus on education and business development is a wise strategy. However, all assistance must in the long term be aimed at gradually increasing the capacity of the recipient countries to stand on their own feet. Every harvest a wonderful budgetary discussion arises in Norway – the struggle to give 1 pst. of GNI in aid. So important is this one percent that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party today are promoting proposals to legislate that 1 pst. of the annual budgets shall be provided for assistance. This is a strange view. The question is, why exactly 1 pst.? Why not 2 pst. Or what about 5 pst. - in the richest country in the world? All parties outside the Advance Party believe that refugees have better access to Norway than being helped in their neighbourhoods. No, it's not like the representative Solhjell says, that there's no room in the neighbourhoods. There's plenty of space in the neighbourhoods, it depends on what you define as a neighbourhood. And of course, it's not that the Earth has become so small that there is no room for refugees to be in the vicinity. The starting point for all of us – everyone in this room – must be to help as many people as possible who are on the run. But we don't choose to do that. Instead, we choose to help a small minority for the same money that we could have helped a lot. We give priority to picking up a few refugees to Norway. It is a very unreasonable and very uneconomic solution. Calculations show that one penny on average for a refugee to Norway equals 28 kroner spent out. 500 refugees to Norway could potentially help 14 000 refugees in the neighbourhood, potentially giving refugees the opportunity to move home and help build their own country if the situation in the country of origin so requires. In particular, in order to strengthen this possibility, the Progress Party is today promoting proposals for the government to launch a project to identify needs and housing solutions for refugees in Norwegian international humanitarian aid. We are pleased that this proposal has been supported by the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. Then let us not forget that there are other countries on this planet that should also contribute humanitarian aid. We have China, India, Indonesia, Brazil, etc., countries that in the UN admit that there are major challenges, but do not contribute. So it's not a European problem the refugee challenges we see, but it's actually a world problem, and it's time for the rest of the world to respond, not just Europe. I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs for having avoided being torn by the populist waves in Europe that are now calling for the recognition of Palestine as their own country. Such recognition could be the nail in the chest of a credible two-state solution. Most people would think that it is unreasonable and inconvenient for Israel to allow the construction of new settlements in disputed areas. Such activities create additional distance and anger. At the same time, it must be made quite clear that the Palestinians, who three generations ago claim to be expelled from Israeli territory, would never be given the opportunity to move to Israel. Their descendants today make up 5.1 million people. The world is full of examples of how different groups of people have been moved at different times, and many Jews themselves were expelled from countries in the Middle East during the same time period, without this leading to similar demands from them. At the same time, it is totally unnatural to present Israel as the strong party in areas where numerous groups consider it a legitimate goal to take the lives of Jews and eliminate Israel from the map. You can also imagine what a fuss it would be if Israeli groupings had made similar statements about the country's neighbourhood. Russia's annexation of Crimea and its military activities in eastern Ukraine are a violation of international law, on which the Minister of Foreign Affairs was involved. But we need to understand what is happening in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, in a broader context. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that NATO's war rhetoric has waned in strength. The important thing is that Russia continues to be part of the international community and that we create interdependence between Russia and the West. In conclusion, I would like to urge the Foreign Minister to do what he can to bring Joshua French back to Norway. French is very ill and is imprisoned for killing after a trial where the evidence was very doubtful, to say it diplomatically. And finally, I wish the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for European Affairs a very good Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1385	Let me first make a brief comment on something the representative Tybring-Gjedde just said, and it was that he looked forward to aid reforms with drastic reductions in the number of cooperating countries. If I have read correctly and understood correctly, one in the budget agreement – including with our support – has asked for a big message to be made about this, possibly with a slightly milder reduction in the number of cooperating countries. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to confirm that that is what is meant. In 2008, the then Foreign Affairs Committee was in Namibia. There, Norway, with a few funds, had contributed to the development of a fisheries management regime such as: ensuring sustainable taxation of fish and rights to own seas. Similarly, the Oil for Development aid programme has helped some countries in the south to manage their petroleum revenues in a way that benefits the population, which is absolutely not the starting point. In fact, the use of small means of assistance can lead to fairly good progress in building up infrastructure and competences. Growth and development require jobs and value creation. It is therefore important to contribute to infrastructure and competence. Sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction are the objectives of our aid and development policy. Creating jobs is absolutely essential for people to get out of poverty, this, of course, in addition to ensuring health, education and robust democracies. So I want to add that development is not possible without using the resources that women represent. The Committee points out that the majority of today's poor are women, and that all experience suggests that when women have an independent economy, about 90 pst are channelled. of the income returned to the family. It contributes again to better health, to the possibility for children, including girls, to go to school — and a slow up out of poverty. Equally important is that women create values. The more women who work or run small businesses, the greater the value creation, thus increasing the opportunities to develop the national welfare state. It is therefore also necessary to target much of Norwegian support for industrial development to small and medium-sized enterprises, including microfinance, which is an important instrument for bringing women into the economic system. At all, job creation is absolutely necessary to lift a country out of poverty. It is also important that Norway assumes a global leadership role in raising knowledge and education. However, Norway has also had a leading role and a special responsibility for the fight against child mortality and the promotion of women’s sexual and reproductive health. If we are to ensure girls education, we must combat child labour, gender-based violence and child marriage. Girls must have the necessary knowledge of their own bodies, of their prevention and of their pregnancy, as well as of fundamental rights. The prevention of premature pregnancy is therefore necessary and must be prioritised. In several countries in southern Africa, the two most dangerous days of a woman’s life are the day she is born, and the day she puts children into the world. An encouraging news is drowning in the great discoveries about disasters and conflicts. And what is that? Well, there are reports that child mortality is halved in 20 years. Vaccines, nutrition programmes and health centres are among the most important aid measures. Many global actors and national authorities shall be credited with reducing child mortality. However, let me mention specifically the vaccine alliance GAVI, which has a unique achievement in aid and development. Since its founding in 2000, GAVI has prevented and prevented more than 5.5 million child deaths. However, GAVI does not work in a vacuum but cooperates with UNICEF, the World Health Organisation and NGOs. Let me underline the importance of UN organisations like UNICEF and the United Nations development programme in the field – they are doing a wonderful job. Meetings and fights against child mortality are essential for the development of a country. GAVI and UNICEF with partners do a formidable job. And it should perhaps be added, since it's 9 December today and 10 tomorrow, when the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded, that it is awarded to Kailash Satyarthis's work on child labour and to Malala's fight for education for girls. When young children are rescued from infant death, the battle for a worthy childhood, schooling, and well - being also begins. So to a topic that has been addressed by several today, namely the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. It was strong to see the Japanese lady from Hiroshima at Skavlan on Friday. At the age of 13, she survived the nuclear bomb on August 6, 1945. Her story is shocking, but not unique, about people who got skin and eyes peeled off, about totally unimaginable suffering. This was 70 years ago. We have to assume that today's nuclear weapons are many, many, many times bigger and more dangerous than the bombs dropped over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. While we are debating the foreign and defence budget, an international conference is going on in Vienna – as we have also heard before today – on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons, or perhaps more precisely, on the humanitarian trail in the work of a nuclear-free world or a ban on nuclear weapons, which is probably not a new concept, nor in this Chamber this year. The conference is a follow-up to the initiative taken by Norway at a seminar in Oslo in March 2013 and followed up with the conference in Mexico. Vienna is the third crossroads of this process. Let me add that the fight against nuclear weapons may be the most important targeted and victorious work in the world community. I am pleased that Norway has taken an active part in the preparations. I am also pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his reply to the undersigned on 5 June of this year – that was my interpellation he mentioned, and I am still not a member of the Left, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs thought was responsible for this interpellation – was clear about continuing the initiative taken by Norway in March 2013, to continue the humanitarian track, and that the change of government does not mean a shift in the policy of disarmament, non-proliferation and complete elimination of nuclear weapons. Today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs – as I understood it – has underlined and repeated the same thing, that the policy on nuclear weapons remains firm. The humanitarian trail has also created energy in the work of a world free of nuclear weapons. The conference is over in a few hours, and I assume that this track is also being continued by the Norwegian government towards the supervisory conference for the non-proliferation agreement in May 2015, which is the next crossroads. In reply to the undersigned, the representative of Trond Helleland, who is now entering the door, rejected that the large pooling items in the budget could make it difficult for the Storting to influence and control the use of the funds. He was clearly not aware or clearly not aware of the fact that the Right is in fact involved in a unanimous remark where the Committee says that there is a need to look into the budgetary structure so that we can have a real influence on the content of the assistance, and the Committee asks the Government to prepare budgetary changes to improve the transparency and influence of the Storting's budgetary position for 2016. I would ask the Foreign Minister to confirm that he is going to take that initiative and do so, since the representative of Greece rejected the issue, despite a unanimous comitology.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1417	There is no doubt that this budget has a strong commitment to the U.D. framework. It's a historically high development budget we're going to adopt here today. Today, the government solves important tasks and equips Norway for the future. It doesn't just apply in the home arena. The government will promote economic growth and ensure the basis for development and welfare in cooperation with the EU as an EEA member and in our role as an international development actor. Business, investment, innovation and education, as well as pursuing a policy that ensures good market access agreements and the freest possible trade in the world, go as a red thread through government's foreign and development policy. Where we have previously discussed assistance to poor countries, we are now talking more about laying the foundations for increased trade, investment, industrial development and growth in the private sector. Enterprises that earn money, invest and create jobs are the most effective form of poverty reduction. Two weeks ago we had a broad debate here in the Chamber on Norwegian European policy. We know how crucial developments in the EU are for Norwegian business, for value creation and for the welfare of Norway. The importance of the EEA Agreement in ensuring access to the large markets in Europe on a level playing field in order to promote growth, employment and innovation in Norway cannot be overestimated. Labour immigration ensures the development of the population in many Norwegian districts and provides recruitment to important industries such as agriculture and aquaculture. The EU is our second most important trading partner. About 80 pst. of our exports go to the markets in Europe. Therefore, the macroeconomic picture after the government provided the budget is alarming. Both the OECD, the IMF and the EU Commission believe that economic development in the EU may be weaker than what has been believed and hoped for. If the oil price were to continue to fall, it would also have significant consequences for Norway. Where is the EU going? The elections to the European Parliament led several of the new extreme, xenophobic and EU-critical parties into the European Parliament. It's a cause for concern. We also see Russia finding it opportunistic to contribute to this kind of grouping in EU countries. Developments in the EU country of Hungary, where current Prime Minister Orbán has openly expressed the desire to build a spiritual wall against Western influence, where one turns his back on the West and refers to the Soviet State and Russia as a success story, are also a concern. Hungary violates the agreement on the terms and conditions for their total use of SEK 1.8 billion. the euro, which is Norway’s contribution to the country through the EEA Agreement, NGOs supported by Norwegian EEA funds are being harassed. In this way, it is important to express full support for the government's freezing of EEA funds to Hungary and to call for a clear EU position that there will be no tolerance for a trend towards undemocratic state formation within the EU's borders. When the EU was enlarged in 2004, the EU countries assumed a major responsibility for economic, social and democratic development in the new member states of Eastern Europe. The EEA funds are Norway’s contribution to this fissure layer. A total of 4.5 billion. kr in 2015 is related to payments for the 2009–2014 contract period. Negotiations with the EU on the level of EEA funds in the coming period, up to 2019, have so far been marked by a great distance between the parties, on which the Minister was also involved. It is important to underline Norway’s position in these negotiations. We insist that future contributions must be based on the principles set out in the EEA Agreement, and we cannot accept a strong increase in the level of EEA funds while the EU countries themselves do not show the corresponding increase in their budgets. The fact that the government links the negotiations to increased market access for fish is a strategically very important decision, because the continuation of EEA funds will require satisfactory solutions for fish. Norwegian European policy is on a whole new track. We need to maintain and develop relations with the EU, get into processes early, participate in expert groups, participate in important negotiations, and we need to be faster to implement EEA legislation in Norwegian law. Finally, I would like to mention that we are facing a new round of negotiations on Article 19 of the EEA Agreement on increased trade in agricultural products, where we need to be prepared for comprehensive and offensive demands on the part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1438	The debate in this area does not differ significantly from previous debates. But there's one thing I have to say I've noticed, and that's that most people have either been very happy or at least a little happy. If they have not been very happy or happy, they have at least been positive to some parts of the budget. And you have to say that is very positive. I have to say that this budget shows a clear and clear change of course in Norwegian development policy and foreign policy. Although you hear at regular intervals that Norwegian foreign policy is firm, I see clear repriorities and changes. The 2015 budget gives clear signals and is the start of a new policy, in particular in the area of development policy. The prioritisation of money is actually a little bit historical. Concentration of aid and focus countries, together with a cap on education, are major changes in Norwegian policy. The budget therefore gives, as I said, signals of where the government wants to go. It's the beginning of a new course. This will, of course, be made more clear when key messages are presented in the future. There is no doubt that the Progress Party is pleased that we are now going to focus on an effective aid policy. In 2013, Norwegian funds were channelled to 116 countries — 116 countries out of 148 countries approved for that type of aid. It has been pointed out in the past that it is fragmenting the aid. There were major administrative challenges and major challenges in coordinating, summarising and evaluating aid policy outcomes. A concentration is important and in line with the overall leadership of Norfund to focus on the poor countries and, in particular, on sub-Saharan Africa. But, of course, one should be alert — when doing this type of concentration — that countries do not fall down on statistics. When you talk about the kind of historical aid budget that we are dealing with here, I have to say that there are people who never get enough. It could also have been said about other budgets. But when the Progress Party can mention that we are increasing the investment in education by 550 million. kr., increases the investment in business by 290 million. kr, reformer in relation to Ukraine and Moldova by 180 million. SEK, has a stake in the north of the region of 574 million. NOK, increase by 424 million. NOK 42 million for emergency aid. NOK extra for emergency and food aid, 400 million. SEK extra to climate, 177 million. In addition to volunteering and civil society, there is a massive boost, at least from the point of view of the Progress Party. That's why it's a little bit interesting to watch and listen to someone wanting more. I join more people who are critical that the debate focuses on percentage targets. I'm interpreting the government that with the partners we reach the percentage, but it's all the more important to look at what we get out of the funds we put in. Most of them have been in the major humanitarian crises we have experienced, especially in 2014. That gives us great challenges. The government is delivering. The government also says that we're not done, there's going to be more promises. However, I would like to stress that the main focus must be long-term. The main focus must be on the tools and measures we need to take in order for the world to move forward and for the poor to move forward. When we know that we need to provide 600 million jobs by 2020, the most important thing is growth, trade and industrial development. There are several people who have sent greetings. I would like – at the end of the day – to send a greeting to the Kurds for their great efforts in Iraq and Syria. The efforts of these people on behalf of the world society cannot be given enough attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1455	The government of Solberg mainly anchors its north-eastern policy where the government of Stoltenberg ended in autumn 2013. We're happy with that. I deliberately use the term ‘mainly’, because we see that most of the money goes to bets that are already in progress. But we are surprised that, at the same time, the state budget reduces business opportunities to develop in the north. It's a change of pace, yes, but with a negative sign. During the presentation of the document Nordkloden, the Prime Minister highlighted the message that the government in its Northern Region Strategy will go from dialogue to action. Several have been concerned with that wording, and so am I in my post. Many feel that recent Russian military activities in the north can be provocative and frightening. I have great respect for that. Although the defense describes the voltage level in the north as still low, of course we shouldn't be naive. The fact that the visible and less visible presence of defence in our northern regions remains a high priority is not a political disagreement. At the same time, however, we must have a clear and as good a neighbourhood as possible with Russia. For the time being, defence cooperation is on the ice – we all know why. But good cooperation continues, fortunately, in the areas of fisheries management, rescue cooperation, the environment and climate, to mention some areas. This is a cooperation based on trust and contact between our two countries over many years. When King Harald in his speech during the 70th anniversary of the liberation of East Finland used the words ‘Norway thank you’, there was a confirmation of the close relationship between Norway and Russia — especially in the north. The understanding and practice of these three words has been a bridge builder between the people on both sides of the border – a building work where the foundation is just built on the content of the words ‘dialogue’ and ‘action’. But I was “skin flatly perplexed” when I heard the Minister of Defense say that Norway is facing permanent changes in relations with Russia. It surprises me that she is so categorical. But maybe I'll find an explanation why the government wants to get away from the North Region policy dialogue through that statement. You can't seriously mean this. I would say that the dialogue can be the difference between cold war and not, to put it at the head. While we're in the north: recent developments on Svalbard, with mass redundancies in Great Norwegian, give cause for concern. Many are concerned about getting alternative jobs for those who are now being lost. The Committee agrees that we all share a shared responsibility for continuing to have a high level of activity and presence at Svalbard. It is not least important to assert our sovereignty, but also from a security policy perspective. Nearly a year ago, the Secretary of Defense held his New Year's speech in Oslo Military Society, and there is no doubt that she had ambitions to close the gap between rhetoric and reality in defense. The criticism was clear while she was in opposition. On the right, the defence was given too little money and the long-term plan was underfunded: ‘We are willing to pay for the government’s decisions as opposed to themselves’, said the representative, Eriksen Soreide, at that time, with reference to the Right’s own budget, where they proposed 600 million. kr more to the defense than the government Stoltenberg II did. The ambitions of the long-term plan for the next two years are an increase of 1.5 billion. kr for each year. The government's defence budget for next year is below the level previously thought to be too low. In addition, she has increased the requirements for internal efficiency improvement, which contributes to cutting research and innovation, defence and construction. Cut in support functions affects the entire Defense. The Minister of Defence reiterates in his statement here today that this budget is a historic growth and a historic promise of capacity for the Norwegian defence. There's probably a little bit of shared opinions about this, to say it a little bit diplomatically. We know it's announced an increase to pay for new fighter planes to the Defense. The budget has few traces of the 600 million. kr extra that the Right promised in broad defence circles before the elections to strengthen our operational capability. What we see instead is an additional efficiency requirement of over 100 million. kr. My main criticism, however, is that she presents increased ambitions in terms of operational capability and military capacity, without being willing to pay for it. In this way, the Minister of Defence himself contributes to increasing the gap between rhetoric and reality. Developments in Europe and the Middle East show the importance of continuing to modernise defence and strengthen operational capacity. While the representative Tybring-Gjedde is busy with the pro-mills, the Workers' Party is busy with the 110 million. kr which represents the difference between the Workers' Party's alternative proposal and the Government's proposal. It's a moderate growth compared to government, but it's an important difference. We follow the ambitions of our long-term plan and say and do the same in government as we do in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1483	The safety situation in Europe and Norway has changed. Stability has been replaced by uncertainty. At the same time, the United States warns that Europe must take a greater share of responsibility for its own defence capabilities. What we prioritize, and how we prioritise, is more important today than just one year ago. I am therefore pleased that we have a Minister of Defence who is so clear that priority should be given to operational capacity and preparedness for the financial year 2015. Whatever the opposition is trying to give the impression, the real growth is 3.3 pst. in the budget a considerable effort, with an increase we have not had at an equivalent level since the last time a bourgeois government put in power. The government increases the operational capacity of all defence sectors, the Home Office and the E-service. There will be increased activity for the Coast Guard and further development of the Armour Battalion, with upgraded material and acquired crew. The army and the Home Office are getting increased activity levels. There will be a reduced response time for helicopter standby on Rygge and Bardufoss, to assist the police in sharp missions. It will modernise the maritime defence structure and phase-in of maritime helicopters. There will be a budget increase to the national safety authority and a significant increase in the budget for the activities of the E service. In addition, we are following the long-term plan for the Defence, with further priority for the acquisition of F-35 fighter aircraft, the establishment of fighter base in the Urland and the development of Joint Strike Missile, with additional funding, so that the investment affects the remaining parts of the Defense as much as possible. The bet on new fighter aircraft will provide significant reinforcement of the Norwegian war-prevention threshold. The government has communicated openly and clearly that although the defence budget in 2015 has a significant real increase, the budget is at the same time characterised by soberness and clear priorities. The Minister of Defence is also aware that the government’s red tape and efficiency reform, introduced for the whole government, is demanding for the defence sector. Changes in security policy challenges must have consequences for how we set up and further develop our defence. With the Minister of Defence's open dialogue with the head of defence after the change of government, it has emerged that there are significant challenges in defence. The transition to an intervention defence has cost us, and today we have a situation of uncertainty about the balance between appropriations, structure and tasks and whether we have a defence with sufficient stamina. This has not been given sufficient priority. This is a very central part of the backcloth of the professional military investigation that the head of defence has been commissioned to carry out. The professional military council of the Defence Commander is an important part of the basis for the next long-term defence plan. Finally, I would like to mention the follow-up by the government to the compensation scheme for veterans with psychological damage, where the 2015 budget is increasing by 64 million. kr. The red-greens did not follow this up in position, so one of the first things this government did was to simplify the special compensation scheme by converting the allocation into an estimate. This ensures that veterans who have been awarded compensation should not have to wait for the money they are entitled to. It is important that society demonstrates support by providing personnel who have served in international operations to ensure our security, the attention and recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1502	The representative Sandberg found that there was a great deal of joy in this debate. There is a lot to enjoy in a field where there is perhaps greater cross-political consensus than in many other areas, but there is also something to worry about in the debate. I'll come back to that. What's best expressed in terms of joy is getting an aid budget that's close to 1 pst. by GNI, but it is thanks to the Christian People's Party and the Left's efforts – not the government's. What the debate has not clarified is whether this show should be repeated next year. Or to use the image of the representative Hareides: May the Christian People's Party and Left also deliver the prizes from this year's Christmas Base to next year's Basar? In that case, it will be unworthy and so doubt Norway's willingness to contribute to a more equitable world. The past year has shown in the field of foreign affairs that the Minister of Foreign Affairs often has to go to someone other than the government partner in order to ensure a safe integration of his policy. The Vice-Chairman and member of the Foreign Affairs Committee expressed doubts about our relationship with international law and did not exclude sending arms to the Kurds in Syria. And in today's setting, we see that the Progress Party does not agree with the rest of the Committee to underline ‘Norway’s interest in an international legal order in which relations between States are regulated by an ever-closer set of obligations, standards and conventions. International organisations play an important and necessary role in ensuring such development’. This has been a supporter of Norwegian foreign policy throughout the post-war period. This was also agreed by the Progress Party in last year's budgetary position. So what's happened this last year that explains the reverse operation, you can just wonder. So the Foreign Policy Spokesman of the Progress Party answers to me in the reply that they think we should be critical of these organisations, among other things. to the UN. Yes, of course! We're going to be active members. International organisations become the Member States that make them. But all the major challenges we face – terrorism, migration, the new security challenge in Europe, unemployment in our neighbouring countries, infectious epidemics such as ebola, climate – have one thing in common: they require cooperation between countries, and then international organisations and institutions are absolutely necessary. But the most important thing is that this web of international institutions, norms and conventions is most important for small countries, those that were once thrown out for the big ones. That is why this turnaround from the Progress Party is serious. They are attacking an important foundation for Norwegian foreign policy and how we can best safeguard our interests in a changing world. For several years, it has been Norwegian policy to work for a world free of weapons of mass destruction, based on commitments and verifiable agreements covering all countries, and to work towards a reduction in the emphasis on NATO’s security policy with a view to new disarmament negotiations and a strengthened NTP process. In the Interpellation Debate of 5 June this year by the representative Marit Nybakk, on the work towards the Supervisory Conference for the Non-Proliferation Agreement in 2015, the Foreign Minister said he shared the vision of a nuclear-free world. It was therefore surprising that we saw that these objectives were not repeated in the budget proposal under the objectives of the chapter on international disarmament negotiations. They stood there in the proposition that Foreign Minister Burnde inherited from the government of Stoltenberg, but were thus taken out in the proposition he himself has designed. The objectives are now to be active contributors to a strengthened non-proliferation regime and an active contributor to the UN, NATO and other organisations in the area of disarmament and non-proliferation. That's good. But the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction was thus taken out. The Foreign Minister has now confirmed in the change of line in this debate that he agrees with the vision and goal of a world free of weapons of mass destruction. Then I expect that we will re-examine this objective in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget next autumn, so we will not have any uncertainty and a new debate on it. The main spokesman of the Progress Party claimed that the government, with its defence budget, follows up the words ‘with action’. However, the Chief Speaker of the Right, the representative of Greece, acknowledged that the defence budget is not entirely in line with the long-term plan, and requested the support of the Stortinget to finance the remaining transition that becomes demanding – with new aircraft and later probably new submarines. And the Minister of Defense pointed out that there are some significant shortcomings in the structure in relation to endurance. My memory from the four previous years in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee is that this is not a new neither recognition nor information. I have heard this before, both from the defence leaders and from the defence ministers. Of course, the Minister of Defence is quite right that this is not arranged in one budget, or in one year, but it might have been right to start as soon as possible when it takes time. In the previous four years, the Right had between 500 and 600 million more than the defence budget of the Stoltenberg government, and the Progress Party had one billion more – each year. Why, then, has not a government with these two parties prioritised more money for the defense than hardly to follow up our government's long-term plan for 2015, which they thought was too low? It's about prioritizing, and when the Right Party and the Advance Party have got the opportunity to propose millions that the Defense would actually get, they don't want to do that. I think a lot of people notice that and I'm disappointed in that. Finally, the European Minister would not answer my question if he would respect the majority here in the Chamber in terms of the percentage of hard oysters and hortnesia, in the Article 19 negotiations. We will accept that at the entrance to the negotiations, but I assume that the Storting will be consulted before the government submits its offers in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1540	Norway was early off with its own strategy for the north and has led to developments in the north. Today is 60 pst. by the population of the earth represented in the Arctic Council and the participants are becoming more and more ambitious. It's not an easy task to keep the leadership sweater in such a situation. So now the question is: is Norway as forward-looking and visionary as we should be? My answer to that is no. It may seem that the government believes that the previous government's North-Area effort was so good that they pass it on largely unchanged. Well, that's good. What is missing are the new ideas, projects and initiatives that lead – for example: on climate: how can the Arctic become a showroom for climate solutions across borders? Management: When the temperature increase results in increased biomass production in our marine areas, we are faced with greater demands than before. On seafood, we're not just going to be an exporter of fish. I miss the effort for the next major export product: the supplier industry for a growing international aquaculture industry. New initiatives on monitoring, heavy lifting from many nations are required to ensure adequate monitoring, e.g.: in order to rig up enough satellite capacity, and further knowledge is needed; it is still the hub of the North Region bet. And we need cooperation. While the West and Russia stand steeply against each other over Ukraine, we live in a corner of the world where neighbors solve problems together. It may sound a bit bad to me that dialogue is on the government's list, but in the north, dialogue is action, it's an investment. Climate, monitoring, seafood, knowledge and cooperation – there are all areas where Norway should lead north. Viewed against this curtain is not the government's bet so impressive. The government has now had a year to come up with new initiatives, set new goals and chisel out new strategies. But they haven't taken the chance. Neither in government declarations, persuasion debates, state budgets, revised national budgets, presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister’s New Year speech, parties’ national meetings or in the status report on the northern regions were the significant new initiatives. The status report was a fine summary of existing measures. It was stylishly designed, but it was certainly not a road map to new possibilities. In the state budget, there were four new measures, each fine, but large sums were not made of them. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs today, in his rather brief reference to the Northern Region policy, refers to an increase of half a billion to the Northern Region measures in the budget, he and we both know that there are three major bets that sum up: it is a new ice-going research vessel, adopted and launched by a red-green government, it is a new MH building in Tromsø, adopted and launched by a red-green government, and it is the local hospital in Kirkenes, adopted by a red-green government. This boasts the Foreign Minister and the Right parliamentary leader. Then it's just for us to say: we thank you for the brilliance, it's a pleasure to be able to help the government. The right-hand side just has to re-write its speech points. It's not half a billion anymore, after a technical adjustment cut 210 million. kr from the sum of boasts. This is north-south extension. It's fine, but it's not enough. When more and more actors report in the north, we need to be on the verge of new measures. It does not merge two aid schemes into one aid scheme and rename them. Let me say that in the field of transport, there has been a slight increase in the funds of the northernmost states, but it is actually financed by the region itself through cuts in regional development funds. The government gives with one hand and takes with the other. And once again, if the answer to criticism is to refer to means, the government will once again reduce the North Region effort to a regional question and to district policy. I believe that this confirms the lack of an overall perspective in the northern regions, and at least it does not address the lack of investment and the lack of other initiatives. Norway was early out in the north. Now we have to get out first with the next big initiatives, too, so we keep the leadership on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1557	Let me begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good dialogue with the Arctic delegation. I think we've gradually found a shape that fits well. The northern regions have been and are, according to the current government, an important strategic area of activity. The red-green government systematically worked to clarify questions about how to manage the northern regions and by whom, and to increase knowledge of the northern regions and clarify border issues, and we succeeded with a lot. Through an active and systematic North Region dialogue and many initiatives, Norway became an Arctic power, not because we are strong military, has the largest economy or has most people – we became an Arctic power because we wanted a lot. For the Workers' Party, the Nordic regions remain Norway's main strategic focus in foreign policy. In these areas, we have fundamental national interests and security policy challenges, and we are also facing some of the most obvious mitigations of climate change. The northern regions have large petroleum resources, some of the world's largest fishing resources and unused mineral resources. When the meltdown of the ice opens up to new and shorter international leaders, new challenges and opportunities await in the area. This government also says it's occupied with the northern regions. As stated in the Government Declaration: ‘North areas are also Norway’s main foreign policy area of interest.’ The North Sea bet is a national bet to benefit the whole country. We need to cooperate on active industrial policy and offensive district policies, thus contributing to growth in the Nordic region. A policy to maintain the main features of the housing pattern is therefore important for strategic reasons and for the exploitation and development of the natural resources in the area. Nevertheless, we cannot reduce the North Region bet to a purely domestic/district policy bet on North Norway. There's a certain danger when we see how the government presents its bet in the north. Prime Minister Erna Solberg said in the context of the presentation of the report ‘North globe’ that it was a strategic document and that it was necessary to measure the government’s concrete commitment based on the annual budgets. Now let's measure the government. Now we're looking at next year's budget, and what we see is a long estimate of large and small projects that get money. Then it might be tempting to ask the question of money for cooperation, division of labour and concentration in university and higher education betting has suddenly become a north-central initiative just because it takes place at the Nordic institutions as in the rest of the country. Or when we build a new hospital in the Kirkenes, building a hospital has become a north-eastern plot, because it also needs to be built a hospital in the north. I'm not going to roll over it anymore, without mentioning it in this post. On the other hand, what I want to spend a little time on – as the previous speaker, more before him, and probably more after me – is to ask for the vision, the idea of what the government wants with the northern regions and the Arctic policy. If we're still going to be a major power in the north, it's essential that we continue to take the initiative and have the ambitions to have the leadership trough, and there's no shortage of challenges. The climate challenge is the greatest – it is displayed quickly and to a very large extent in the north. It has very great consequences for the people who actually live there, especially those who rely on the natural resources that are there. Can we expect to see strong initiatives from Norway on how Arctic Councils will contribute to addressing climate challenges? Or is it governance, governance and democracy in the north that is high on the government's agenda? Is it true that the government agrees that there is a need to strengthen local and regional influence on the policy design of the northern regions, both in Norway and in the other Arctic countries, and that they will therefore introduce new models of how people in the north will participate in creating their own future? In order to promote business development, it is important to have close cooperation and dialogue with business, but it is also necessary to have close dialogue and cooperation with the people living in the areas in which they operate. And if we are to operate in the northern regions, which are relatively sparsely populated, in demanding climatic conditions and vulnerable environments, special attention must also be paid. Will the government start work on developing economic models that value climate and environmental impacts, ensure local and regional ring-effects and promote corporate social responsibility? After one year, I am not sure that this is a topic that is high on the government's agenda, and I am pleased that many of the major efforts of the government Stoltenberg II are being continued. It should be lacking – after all, there is quite a political consensus about them. When the government is ready to lift its north-eastern bet, we in the Workers' Party will support it. Until then, we will wait impatiently, continue to propose measures – and be disappointed that the government has no greater ambitions for the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1588	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1592	Many have so far focused and spent a lot of time in the debate on the security challenges facing our continent and the rest of the world, and I think it is also important for us to take on board that the policy we give priority to, for example. in the case of tax cuts, shall not take precedence over the security and defence policy of the country. The Syrian conflict and the crazy behaviour of ISIL as well as what is happening in Ukraine confirm that there is no longer anything called far away, and what is happening far away affects us in our everyday lives to a greater extent than we like. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that foreign policy has become domestic policy – and almost neighboring policy, if you look a little more at the details, for example. in the case of foreign fighters, penalties for responding to countermeasures and local unemployment. It affects me, it must affect my neighbours, and therefore major policies are also local policies to the greatest extent. We see that the sanctions with which the world community responds to Russia are working. The last issue of The Economist magazine had a picture on its front page of the Russian bear with blood trail in it and with the title: Russia's damaged economy – and with the subtitle: And the dangers it poses for the rest of the world. I think that sub-title is quite interesting, because it is also a warning that we must take seriously what is happening in economic policy, even when we are thinking about security policy. In a combination of falling oil prices and the increasing debt of Russian companies to foreign banks, as well as the effects of the sanctions, the negative economic development in Russia poses a major challenge, in my view. In other words, economic policy is security policy. When we then know that there are hundreds of thousands of jobs in different countries in Europe that depend on trade with Russia, it is in everyone's interest that we should seek a diplomatic solution to this conflict the sooner, the better, which means that someone has to talk – in other words, more dialogue and more action. I have mentioned that economic policy is a security policy, we see that, but I must also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he highlights the importance of global health promotion measures being also linked to security policy aspects. The same applies to the climate challenges, and they will hit us all. We've seen the latest pictures from the Philippines, and we have a strong memory of what happened in the West a short time ago, and not least we also see that Ebola is something we have to deal with here in the country. That is why I believe that both health and climate policies must be raised more clearly when defence and security policies are discussed in the national and international arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1605	I said I had more on my heart and would come back. The world is now facing the most critical humanitarian situation in many decades. The United Nations total humanitarian appeal for 2014 was the largest ever, and by December this year it is adjusted to the need for 16.4 billion. dollar. There are today, as we know, four Level 3 crises – the highest level the UN has defined. In addition, there are a number of other acute and long-term crises in which there is also a significant underfinancing. In addition, through the Transformative Agenda programme, the UN has managed to improve its response to acute crises such as: natural disasters, but not yet the long-standing conflict crises, unfortunately. In recent years, funding for international humanitarian response has not kept pace with increasing needs. In Norway, too, humanitarian aid as a share of the aid budget has fallen slightly in recent years, during the previous government. That's why it was so funny to hear a representative of the Workers' Party in Dagsrevyen on Sunday, December 7th, attack the government because Norway is not too late for humanitarian aid. In the spring, the Workers' Party demanded an extra Syria billion in revised form. It was not clear where these funds were to be taken from, at that point in time. Taking money from other areas would be irresponsible. Now, the Workers' Party is increasing the humanitarian aid reserve by only 50 million. kr in its draft budget for 2015. Here we see that there is little left of the bet from in ours. At the same time, the Syria crisis has just gotten worse. In addition, the government has increased humanitarian aid in three rounds since the government change – as revised by 166 million. SEK, in the freshly aged period of 250 million. kr and for the 2015 budget of SEK 424 million. Extra, plus 42 million. SEK to the World Food Programme for 2015. With the draft budget of the four parties to the conciliation, the budget for humanitarian aid and emergency aid has increased by 427 million. NOK 3,339 billion. kr in 2015, cf. the position of the majority. It's equal to an increase of 15 pst. Norway is among the largest contributors to Syria and the region. Norway has made a total contribution of around 846.5 million. in 2014 in response to the crisis in Syria. Plus 200 is going to be equal to 200 million. kr to Iraq. There will be heavy Norwegian effort in 2015. In addition, the government has agreed to receive 2000 quota refugees until next year. It's 500 more than the Workers' Party had budgeted for. It was heartwarming to hear the World Food Programme's leader Ertharing Cousin tell the BBC last week that they have had to reduce and now close the food distribution in the refugee camps around Syria. Fortunately, the foreign minister went on the track with another 70 million. kr on Sunday. Now the rest of the international community must also take hold!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1624	«Oh, Esh ket hiloa, all hurria» – so the freedom beautifuls you. I am a friend of Israel. I support Israel's right to exist in security with defined borders, and I dream that they will have peace with their neighbours. Unfortunately, too many of those who call themselves Israeli friends in Norway today are bad friends of Israel. They're bad friends because they don't dare to point out the mistakes Israel makes, it's the illegal blockade of Gaza, the illegal occupation, the illegal settlements, the illegal prisons of children, the illegal prisons without sentence and sentence, the illegal wall of the West Bank, the illegal annexation of Jerusalem, the illegal killings of civilian Palestinian demonstrators – and the list continues. Amnesty today accuses Israel of war crimes in Gaza and demands an investigation. This should be supported by Norway. International law is ready, and we don't think our friends should have rules other than ourselves and the rest of our friends? I'm a friend of Palestine. I support the Palestinians' right to independence, a life of freedom and a state of their own. I support the right of the Palestinian refugees to return home, and I support the right of the Palestinians to oppose an illegal military occupation. There are two sides to this conflict, but one is occupied, and the other is occupying. The Palestinians have few opportunities for prosperity, their human rights are not respected, and their freedom is taken from them. It's urgent to find a solution to their situation. Implementing human rights can never be acquitted of Israel's negotiating will. It has to be a matter of course. Therefore, the SV’s proposal to recognise Palestine is important. The Palestinians of Gaza are real people. A few weeks ago, I had a visit from Muhammad Jabany and Bahaa Elayan from the Gaza Strip. We ate food together, we played Mario Kart at Nintendo together, we went to town together, and we became good friends. I asked Bahaa, what can we do in Norway for the people of Gaza? His answer touched me, he said: «We just don't want to be dead bodies to you, covered in blood and rubble, we want to be very much alive to you, we want to have strong friends outside so we won't suppress and the alone.» The external budget shows that Norway continues to play an important role through the donor country group. My appeal today is not against the aid crowns of Palestine, but my appeal today is that it is pointless to finance an illegal occupation of Israel itself is responsible for, without also exerting significant political pressure, through dialogue, yes, but when it does not lead, we must also impose sanctions. Bahaa and Muhammad are very alive to me. I fear for the next time Israel bombs the Gaza Strip.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1651	Within a short year, the security policy image in Europe and its neighbourhoods has changed dramatically, with increased levels of conflict, unforeseeableness and uncertainty. At the same time, there is great cause for concern about recruitment to the extreme Islamic environment and foreign fighters, including from Norway. We must not accept the premise for the increased aggression from the east, nor from groups like ISIL. We must stand up for our values and our freedom. We must strengthen relations and the community of values with our friends in Europe and NATO and stand together in the fight for democracy, rule of law and human rights – and against violent extremism. The fact that the EU has gained a far greater importance in security policy than before is a new situation that requires Norway to interact with the EU in new ways, because we do not have an EEA agreement on security policy. It is a challenge for Norway that we do not sit around the table when our friends in the EU are discussing security policy in our neighbourhoods, with significant consequences for Norway. In this way, I look forward to the meeting of the European Committee here in Stortinget tomorrow, where the Minister of Defence will provide information on how the government assesses progress, the role of the EU Security Policy and a presentation of the EU/EEA Strategy of the Ministry of Defence. Against this curtain, it is both right and fair that the defense is the budget winner. The government is strengthening the defence framework with a real growth of about 1.4 billion. kr, or 3,3 pst., in 2015. In addition to increased frameworks for activity, exercise, training and preparedness, the government is making significant investments to continue the modernisation of the Defence. The framework for the acquisition of new defence equipment has increased considerably and is now around 20 pst. by the Defence Budget, in line with NATO's ambition from the Cardiff Summit. The establishment of a fighter base on Ørland with new squadron construction and the purchase of new missile fighter aircraft is a huge lift, but it is absolutely necessary. The purchase of JS missiles is further financed so that the purchase does not affect other parts of the Defence. New stations for the border guard in South Varanger have already been adopted. In addition, the new NH90 helicopters are now delivered to the Coast Guard and Marinen, submarines are upgraded, the Army has new tanks, etc. It is important to stress that with large investments in new material, there will also be increased operating costs that need to be financed. So far, we are following the current long-term plan. The new professional-military council will be able to change the professional recommendations and thus have implications for budgetary priorities in the coming years. As a result of the change in the security picture, we need a strong defence with a satisfactory operational capability, so that we can defend the country and stand by the alliance obligations. We have to take the consequences of this, and prepare for the need to give Defence greater priority in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1666	In the discussion of the global health issue in foreign and development policy, the Stortinget adopted three areas of activity: Mobilising for women and children's rights and health to reduce the burden of disease with emphasis on prevention to promote human safety through health These are important bets. Worsening the health status of a population is a threat to both prosperity and stability. In Norway, we're lucky. Relatively, we have good health, high life expectancy and a well-developed health care system. We must therefore take responsibility and be drivers to improve the health situation also for people in other countries around the world. The majority will give priority to women and children. The center party thinks it is especially important to continue the efforts directed at children. 30 pst. the disease burden in low-income and middle-income countries relates to a disease that affects children. Malnutrition and misnutrition are an important underlying reason. Adequate and safe food is essential to good child health. There is a strong need to strengthen food security in all countries and to increase investment in direct nutrition targeting mothers and children with documented impact on infant mortality. Vaccination programmes as well as the fight against infectious diseases are very important measures, but we must not forget the basics – working for better hygiene conditions, clean water and enough and safe food. It only helps to save children from medical illness in the short term if we do not remove the reason why the children become susceptible to disease. We must prevent food shortages and malnutrition. A single committee signals the willingness to invest more strongly in women, agriculture and food security. It's positive. The center party goes further. In the alternative state budget, we are increasing the aid budget by 1.2 billion. in addition to the original proposal of the Government. We put in ear-marked funds for the work against child marriage. We are increasing support for UNICEF's programme on nutrition, social inclusion, protection, water, sanitation and hygiene. We prioritise ear-marked means to strengthen a resilient and climate-friendly agriculture. The size has decided that one of three objectives of global health policy is to reduce disease taxation by preventing it. The World’s Health Organization describes alcohol as the third main obstacle to world development. The alcohol industry is now investing heavily in Africa, and especially in youth. Alcohol use is now the major cause of disease and death in countries in South Africa and Latin America, and the penetration of the alcohol industry hinders development in these countries. State Council Brende is the Norwegian Minister for Health in Development Policy, and I want him to be happy with the important work. I hope and expect that he will also put a great deal of effort into the Great Britain's stated goal of global health policy, namely prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1693	The government is taking a broad view of the Northern Region policy. Representatives from the Workers' Party are trying to present the government's view of dialogue as less important, but the representatives who have not received it are that this government goes from dialogue to action, without stopping talking about dialogue. In the last eight years, there has been a lot of talk and dialogue among the red-greens in the northern regions. It is therefore time for more action to be taken, as this government is now betting in the north. It was Højres Jan Petersen who launched the first North Region bet, with the big message «Possibles and challenges in the north» in 2005. With a new bourgeois government, there will be a new promise, with a further bet in the north. The Nordic regions are Norway’s most important area of foreign policy interest, and the government proposes a total North Sea effort of almost 3 billion. kr in 2015. That means that this government has had an increase in the North Region bet of 1 billion. NOK 2 in 2 years. The government conducts a performance-oriented policy to transform knowledge and resources into jobs and value creation, including through: strengthening the link between knowledge and business. North Norway is going well and has a large potential for higher value creation within, among others. petroleum, maritime, space, mineral, maritime and travel industries. The government will therefore give priority to five areas of north-eastern policy: international cooperation, business, knowledge, infrastructure and environmental protection, security and preparedness. The work of the government with international cooperation in the north is of great importance. The Nordic regions are also concerned with global power policies, where important resources, climate, new transport routes and security policies are at the centre. The government therefore places considerable emphasis on presence and resource management, as Prime Minister Erna Solberg stressed at the latest this weekend. The government's Northern Region policy increases operational capacity and preparedness in all areas of defence, including: in Homeland. This gives a clear signal to all stakeholders in the north and shows priority and action. The government has been clear that, even with concerns about Russia, it has recently been important to continue good cooperation in maritime safety, joint fisheries management, the environment, nuclear safety and people-to-people cooperation. As Arctic coastal states, we have many common interests. The fact that the northern regions continue to be a peaceful and stable region, we are all served by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1708	I have previously consulted Storting's agencies on the government's work on missile defence. The government has now decided that Norway will join the Maritime Theater Missile Defense Forum. It is a cooperation forum that is about protecting our marine vessels from the threat posed by ballistic missiles and cruise missiles. Membership will strengthen maritime-military cooperation with our closest allies, our ability to cooperate militarily with allies in collective defence and thereby also strengthen our national defence capabilities. I would like to stress that the Norwegian membership decision does not pre-empt any material Norwegian contribution to NATO's missile defence system. In addition, Norway agreed in principle to the establishment of the NATO missile defence system at the Lisbon Summit in 2010. I would also like to make some comments about posts that have been kept in the hall. The representative Helga Pedersen probably didn't hear well enough after my post, because I said that I thought it was a good budget, while there is a budget of soberness, realism and clear priorities. The representative Pedersen also thought that we wanted to do more. Yes, we have been working on a new trade union counsel because our surroundings are changing, and there is a need for major reforms of the Defence. It has been delivered and discussed in full public for the first time, which we believe is very important because defence policy should not be something just of particular interest, it concerns society to the greatest extent. I would also like to add some comments to the statement by the representative Kåre Simensen. This is not, therefore, a matter of relations between Norway and Russia, but between the West and Russia. It's about seeing a lasting change in our security environment. We see that all countries that are allied to Norway have done the same thing as Norway, namely to suspend military cooperation bilaterally, while maintaining practical cooperation on a daily basis – coastguard, border guard, search and rescue, and not least the possibility of direct contact between our operational headquarters on Retan and the North Fleet. It's important both to avoid misunderstandings and to know what's happening in our neighbourhoods. We can't close our eyes because even if we don't see a direct military threat to Norway, we're dealing with a big neighbour who now has a significant increase in military capability, a considerable increase in the willingness to use military power, and who is testing NATO's preparedness, testing NATO's cohesion. It is important for Norway to follow up and take into account its assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1719	Developments in Russia have gone in an authoritarian direction. Russia’s acts of international law and use of power in Ukraine have triggered a serious security policy situation in Europe, which also has implications for Norway’s relations with Russia. It is in our interest to continue much of the practical cooperation with Russia in the Norwegian areas of interest, as well as cooperation in areas involving cross-border contact and exchange. It is reassuring that the Foreign Affairs Committee, in common comments, confirms that our foreign policy should be based, inter alia, on: to NATO membership, and that they point out that Russia’s annexation of Crimea poses a security risk. For us who are concerned with security policy, it has been interesting to follow the SV's condemnation of both Russia and NATO in this matter. I choose to deal with SV in Stortinget, and in this context, it is gratifying that they too are in line with us in the view of Russia's abuse of power. We are also concerned about the internal development of Russia. The situation of human rights is very worrying. Russia's acts of international law in Ukraine have consequences for our bilateral relationship. This affects our political contact with Russia and characterises our cooperation. International law is particularly important to us who live in a country with long borders, large seas, but small and scattered populations. All our well-being depends on other countries respecting our borders and our control of our own resources. In view of this, we have increased support for Ukraine and Moldova, which need all possible support for democratic processes that can lead them forward and oppose political pressure from Russia. It is important that Norway, in addition, in cooperation with the EU and other relevant actors, contributes to follow-up to the reform process of Poroshenko in Ukraine and supports all good measures to find a solution to the ongoing violent conflict. It is good that the government is clearly facing the increasing Russian activity in the northern regions. Increasing Russian activity in our border areas must meet on our side accordingly. There is no reason to believe that Russian aggression against neighboring countries should stand up to us, but we must nevertheless be prepared and vigilant. Norway has supported the economic sanctions against Russia, and for good reason. However, we must not close our eyes so that foreign policy pressure against Russia can increase patriotism and build up under Putin as a strong leader and defender of the interests of the Russians. We have to balance more considerations here and not pull the curtain all the way down, but be open and in dialogue. But a regime that so easily resorts to violence and disregards the rights of sovereign states and works by undermining the democratic processes of other countries must meet with firmness and strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1732	On Ørland and in the South-Trøndelag, we are pleased that the new fighter base was adopted to be located in Ørland. At the same time, we are concerned that the development of the base and the transfer of the fighter aircraft should take place in a way that will safeguard the interests of both the Air Force and the Ørland community. I am pleased that, in its comments, the Committee stresses the importance of the establishment of good and inclusive cooperation with the community. The Committee considers it important to ensure that residents directly affected by the establishment are maintained through an open and orderly process. There is a great deal of concern that there is a lack of temporal consistency between the transfer of the new fighter aircraft to Örland and the work on the redemption of properties in the FYROM. The aircraft will arrive in 2017, while Defence Construction has a time horizon up to 2022 before they have at best got the latest redemption and replacement agreements in place. It's totally unsustainable. In its alternative budget, the Party has proposed to strengthen the capacity of defence-building to work on the redemption of farms and dwellings through an additional 5 million. kr. This proposal should be re-examined by several parties. The situation is perceived as demanding for all concerned and presents extra major challenges for those engaged in red zone agriculture. One third of all milk production in the municipality of Ørland will be affected. It says something about the magnitude. This applies largely to properties that do not stand in the way of the actual expansion but that have to be moved away due to noise. Some of them have sheltered courtyard fences, and some will be able to maintain the farm, but can't live there. Some may have to move from livestock farming to cereal or vegetable production. These are estates that have been owned by families for generations, and where the obligation to drive is maintained. You invest in the base with a 30-year perspective. No one knows if fighter planes are up-to-date technology in 30 or 50 years. This means that it may be possible to move back and operate the farms if the base is closed at some point. Demolition of the apartment buildings will also degrade the cultural landscape and destroy an entire terrain for the future. It would be a mistake if protective buildings were to be required to be demolished. It is therefore important that Defence Construction assess agreements in which the owner is compensated for obtaining a new dwelling, but where the possibility of maintaining the yard tunnel is open and, if necessary, move back if the noise problem disappears. In addition to the 250 decaves that are physically built down, there will be hundreds of targets of cultivated land that will remain within the fence. This is one of the most productive food soils in Trondelag, and it is essential that the defenses and farmers get good agreements that ensure that food production on this soil is maintained. My concern and that of the Centre is the same as the majority of the Committee points out: to ensure inclusive cooperation between Defence and the community. Beyond ten years is too long to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1751	I think it has been a very good debate, a rich debate and many themes have been up. It also shows how broad foreign, security and development policies are. It is also very positive that there is a broad consensus on the handling of the new security policy image in Europe. Many of our closest allies have noticed that Norway has taken a clear distance from the violations of international law that we have faced in Ukraine and that there is an overall increase that has been behind the restrictive measures implemented by both the EU and the United States. This has been important. I believe that with the process that is now in Ukraine and Russia, linked to the debate on compliance with the Minsk Agreement, the restrictive measures seem to be in such a way as to allow one to think more about it before going to new breaches of this agreement. It is also the case that we in the Great Britain have agreed to take a strong distance from extremism and terrorist organisations such as ISIL. It has been important that we now present ourselves to those affected by this form of extremism. Major areas in Iraq and Syria are controlled by an extremist organisation that goes so far as to have been excluded from Al Qaida. The total amount of Norwegian humanitarian aid to stop money flow, to stop foreign fighters and to be willing to stand up in the military is something you have noticed. It is an offensive attitude in the fight against a phenomenon and a form of extremism I unfortunately believe that we must live with for many years to come. Then there has also been a broad consensus on the North Region bet, as I have experienced it. We've invested more resources for the North Region bet, and we're preparing Arctic Council and the Presidency of the United States. I just have to repeat that when it comes to the question of a nuclear-free world, we stand on what was said both in the interpellation in ours and in the debate now, and it was absolutely right that it was the representative Nybakk who had this interpellation in ours – an important interpellation where we were given the basis for this. As far as the budget is concerned, it is the training effort that, among other things: has contributed to a new pooling line and that is why the budget appears to be the way it is now. But of course we're going to look at it to have the most transparent budget possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1766	I would like to link some comments to the government's Northern Region bet. The border we have with Russia, our great neighbour in the east, is Russia's oldest border. It is also the only border for which Russia has never been in war. That means that one has a long tradition when it comes to peace with Russia. So Norway also has a special responsibility in the north to cultivate this further. What makes this region so interesting is a lot of things. One is, of course, the increase in activity from many other actors in the world – whether China, Japan or the EU, which is now starting to escalate its activity in the north. After the fall of the wall, it is also suddenly possible to deepen the cooperation that has been there. The pomor password, among other things, that we have established in the border area of the Kirkenes, is a very exciting arrangement. If one had developed it further, think about what could happen in this region — if one, for example. could get more permanent cleaning, get work included in the contract, etc.Oh, my God! One could create this into an area that could really be a bridge builder between Norway and Russia, which could mean a lot to our entire region. While the rest of the world flock in this area – for many different reasons – the government has made completely different types of choices. It is a symbolic act to bake the Minister for Fisheries into another department, reduce that role, and instead establish an EEA Minister. Other decisions include: reduces the general bets in the north, whether they are regional development funds, Copernicus bets or other – bets that are put on hold until they don't know when. The general bets and the special bets in this area have been reduced. With this option you want to step down your wager, at a time when other actors are stepping up their bets. It's an important minus here. Oils and minerals want to bet on in the north. Thus, the government reinforces the impression they give of its north-eastern policy, that this is actually about clarifying resources, so that it can become a host country for actors. I think Norway's north-eastern strategy should primarily be about and start from the people who live there. They must have a strong ownership of the strategy, they and their long-standing and historical contact with their neighbours, which should be the starting point for cooperation in the north. Unfortunately, the government does not deliver when this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1782	At the end of the debate, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for two good and reflected contributions, but it looks as if we are going to go through this debate too without getting a clear answer to what is the government's new efforts, new initiatives in the north areas beyond what the red-green government put forward. It's positive with the oil protection base. It's probably also very positive with 10 million. kr for polar bear count. But I heard the Foreign Minister give an offensive speech in Tromsø after the elections last year. That's a good promise. The government should go from word to action in the north. The fasitite is really so far that the new government follows up the words and actions of the red-green government – no new initiative. Or to say it in a way Right-wing representatives understand better: get new ideas and get better solutions. I have a feeling that, in many ways, north-eastern policy is being reduced to state roads and food measures – important enough separately, and some individual projects are being realised. But this is not an overall framework around the northern regions that gives new energy to work, or puts it into the framework in which it belongs as a national and international project. Nevertheless, it has to be mentioned that much of the Northern Region policy is to be implemented in the northern part of the country, and the question can then be asked: Will it be wise to give local and regional elected peoples the opportunity to influence developments and to prepare the Northern Region Strategy in their way? In order to ask the question in a different way: is there going to be more or less North-Area effort to cut the country's potential for e.g. to support regional business in the region? Is it a good idea to have a distribution policy that goes the wrong way? The national community is given limited opportunities to manage development when the local economy becomes narrower and the counties are less able to invest in business. When you cut the taxes on wealth, it benefits in the first few other parts of the country. Only 4 pst. of the reliefs will come to North Norway, sea of 9 pst. of the population living there. It is also about giving the locals an opportunity to carry out north-eastern policies in their own way. That possibility has been weakened. At the end of the debate I would like to say that I hope the Foreign Minister will sooner or later answer the challenge he has received several times, including here today. What new initiatives does the government take to lead Norway in the northern regions? Can we find them in the budget? Can we find them in the government's status report, or does the government have a secret plan for an offensive North Region policy that they're just waiting to launch?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1797	I think it would be a pity if the representative Henriksen had to wait for such an answer. First of all, I have to say that this government is following up important elements of the Northern Region policy of the previous government, which should lead to the joy of the former government party, just as we were very pleased when the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens followed up the first bigges' message that was presented on the Northern Region policy, by Jan Petersen in 2005. In the north, there's a lot of stuff gathering us. Among other things, they discussed what is associated with the Arctic Council and the important American Presidency this spring. I think we agree that it must contain climate, it must contain questions about indigenous people, it must discuss and contain what happens when the sea is acidified in the north, what happens to new sea routes that it opens up to. With regard to the visions ahead, I think there is a good basis in the budget that the government is going to adopt: a bet of more than 500 million. kr more in the northern areas. In addition, it is not to hide that there has been a complication in recent months that we are facing a Russia that is acting differently than it did a year ago, but we have managed that by continuing important people-to-people cooperation, search and rescue, nuclear cooperation, environmental cooperation. For this government, it is important that our Northern Region policy continues to be based on research and development. Here we are clearly increasing the budgets, and there is a commitment to knowledge in the north and in knowledge workplaces, where we produce higher up in the value chain. It's absolutely crucial. It is when you produce higher in the value chain that you can also withstand the Norwegian level of costs. In addition, we make clusters around the space bet both on Andøya, in Tromsø and in Narvik, where we have some of the leading clusters in the world. We are also working intensively to put in place the polar code, which will ensure the environment better. I myself have taken an initiative with France's Foreign Minister to bring together foreign ministers who are influential in the climate and environment, in North Norway, Svalbard, to use this as a contribution to the important COP 21 conference. In this context, it is also important to take on board the dimensions related to biodiversity and to respect the Arctic, that it is not a ‘gold rush’, but that the Arctic evolves on the basis of sustainable principles. I hope there was an answer to what the representative asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1810	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1824	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be divided into two sections, first dealing with the budget chapters under the Framework Areas 1, 18 and the chapters under the Framework Area 6 relating to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and then the budget chapters under the Framework Area 6 concerning the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children, Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Inclusion. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will further propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, both in Parts 1 and 2 of the debate, there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1839	When we deal with the State budget within the Municipal and Administrative Committee, I would like to begin by thanking you very much. I would like to thank all those who have put on our rings, and all those who have made contact and request that this process and this budget have been good. In particular, I would like to thank the Committee Secretary and the others in the administration, including the text centre, for their good service in a hectic time. Then, of course, I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in setting up a budget and an attitude today. When the leader of the finance committee opened on Monday about the financial situation, he said that he had listened to salmeson before he went to this pulpit. I'm not going to copy him and say that I've listened to salmeson, but it might be tempting to find a suitable psalm for the community economy. I didn't agree with that, but for the community reform, the psalm "No one is so safe in danger" might be a good title. And when we talk about the municipal reform and salmesong, it can also be a bit of a fun point that Norwegian salmebook has been revised four times since we last revised the municipality divisions in Norway. We don't do that to change Norway, but because Norway has changed. I want to praise Norwegian municipalities for having seen the municipal reform on the agenda, because they have involved the population, and that they see the potential of a reform. In spring 2016, the Norwegian local government will take important decisions, and it is important to stress that it is the local government itself that determines the type of decision they want to take, but after a good and thorough process and – which is an important point – one year after Stortinget has indicated what tasks the local government will be doing in the future. It is not that this will happen in the wrong order. First you get a white task and then you have to make the local decisions. Therefore, the time to find tasks is now important in the future. The department is in full swing, and it will be working from that side on what tasks you can delegate down. I would also like to see busy municipalities – contrary to the road – say what they think local democracy is better able to solve than state, county or county. The debate on this state budget has been very much about the social profile. For the Progress Party, social commitment is important. We're busy helping those who need the most public stuff. We are concerned that our children should have an upbringing in kindergartens with a high level of adding them and in a school where their children are motivated to develop Norway further. Then we are occupied with good care for the elderly and nursing, and it is not only about care and care, but also about the provision of cultural activities, good food and activities, so that the elderly get their star hours. Good health care is also important when disease strikes or when children need guidance at a health centre. These are many of the functions for which Norwegian municipalities are responsible, and which are important for our inhabitants, and therefore it is important for us to strengthen the social profile, to strengthen the community economy. Therefore, the Progress Party used its power in Stortinget in the period 2001-2005 to strengthen the municipal economy, and that is why we also use our ability as a government party to strengthen the municipal economy – not because it should be possible to build more cultural houses or town halls, but because the municipalities should be equipped to provide good supplies to those who need it most. For this reason, it is gratifying to register the Budget Survey to KS, which points out that the areas that are most strongly strengthened underpin the social profile, namely that child protection and the care sector are some of the areas that receive the most growth. Elles reports to the municipalities that there is demanding budgetary work – as it was last year, and as it has been for about every year. Many of the explanations are that municipalities will do a lot. They want to invest a lot, and they do their priorities. This has always been the case in the municipal sector, and so is this year. The biggest difference between now and before is that the Storting recognizes that it is. We are not here today to express that the municipalities have never received more money: even if they have never received more money, we say that being a municipality requires priorities, and being a municipality requires a priority between different offers that you want to strengthen. I would particularly like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for the cooperation we have had on this budget – both in the Financial Committee and in the Municipal Committee. They will certainly do well for their hearts and their permeability later in the debate. The Progress Party has also had a strong impact and has seen its footprint in this budget. One of the most important points for us is that we have strengthened the growth community by lowering the point of entry to 1.6 pst, so that 68 municipalities get growth municipal support for next year, compared to 24 this year. These are municipalities that have major challenges with an increasing population and therefore require large investments to provide them with a supply. To spring, the government in the municipal bill will come up with an assessment of different models for returning parts of the corporate tax to the municipalities. This is important in order to increase the tax morals of businesses, which will be the case when they see that the value creation becomes local again, rather than going to Oslo for further distribution. The budget has also been strengthened following the legalisation of the BPA offer. We stress that it is important that municipalities provide real choice for users when implementing the BPA scheme. Differentiated employer fees have our theme in this state budget of the Committee. This is complicated, but it is easy to say that the principle is such that this system should primarily apply to business, not to municipal activities. It is therefore logical and correct that municipalities should not benefit from a lower fee and that that benefit should be taken into account in the framework. The same principle has been applied since 2004 – by changing governments. It is also true that some people have been compensated because the fees were set up in 2004 and 2007. I think everyone agrees that no one should have compensation for a disadvantage that they no longer have, but we see that the statesmen who follow that compensation scheme have had a slightly different practice. The majority in the committee have asked the department to ensure that the flexibility chosen by many states to reduce this compensation over time is also exercised for more. Finally, I have to enter the county councils: they have had a great deal of focus in the processing of this budget because one has established new cost keys on the income system and has corrected the wrong conditions that have been seen in the old system. Because the red-green government left the income system in a drawer, the changes have been big because one has waited to do them. That's why we also agree that it's important to have a loss compensation that will last for several years, so that the changes for those who lose will be easier than if you had made them right away. So we're happy that it's set at 185 million. kr, but we remind you that it says in the settings from the majority that county councils are not allowed to use this loss compensation to defer the necessary adjustments to their expenses to new income frameworks. There is one element of the new income system that will be considered in the future in conjunction with the municipality's 2016 proposal, namely boat and ferry criteria. Here the departments shall evaluate the data material more closely, and one shall consider how to introduce a holiday relief scheme, as requested by the Committee in the context of the municipal proposal. It is clear that this review could lead to changes and redistributions between municipalities. This is a work that is important to follow, and it is important that the county councils also help to obtain the data needed to make good analysis and good estimates of the differences in costs between different county municipalities relating to boat and ferry, which have proved to be one of the most difficult elements to set a good criterion in the new income system. That is why one will continue to work on this. In these comments, the Committee's plurality indicates that new offers for ferries are becoming more expensive. Therefore, we underline the importance of a more frequent update of cost keys and income systems than usual, in order to capture new expenditures more quickly. Finally, I would like to show that a budgetary agreement has been reached between the Government Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left, for which a thorough deal has been done at the Inn. 2 S Appendix 1 for 2014-2015. It is important to note that the efficiency reform introduced, which increased from 0.5 to 0.6 in terms of efficiency, will result in a change in the number of entries compared to the original document, and that this is the background for the tables to show other entries on a very large number of entries in what we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1875	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1878	Let me thank the chairman of the committee for good cooperation in the committee. My question is about tax failure. Because in 2004, the municipalities experienced a tax failure, in view of the Progress Party, to compensate for that tax failure. The Progress Party got the Bondevik II government to partially compensate for the failure in income experienced by municipalities. On 23 November 2004, Siv Jensen said the following to the Official Journal of Bergen: ‘The Communities must be treated in the same way as the State itself. Today it is such that the State literally compensates the State for the loss of tax revenue. The same principle must apply to municipalities, as our rapporteurs have also pointed out." That was clear speech from the opposition politician, Siv Jensen. Now the Progress Party is in position, and the party is barely recognized. What's happened? Have the rapporteurs of the Progress Party stopped being concerned about this, or is this perhaps an example of the fact that the Progress Party is not following its own policy from when they were in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1890	The representative asked me this question once before, but I would like to answer the same question once more. In the case of the 2004 tax failure, the Progress Party chose to fight for a strengthened local economy. What was the model to get to it, in collaboration with the daring government, was to use the ejaculation. Now we're in government, and we're using our power to increase the income of the municipalities, but we're putting more emphasis on next year's revenue, which is what we're debating in the hall today. We are in line with what Hill-Marta Solberg said in the debate that time, simply: ‘Our view is that the most important thing is to ensure municipalities an economy in the following year that takes account of the economic situation.’ That's exactly what we've done. We have provided a good community plan for the next year, and that is the most important thing for the municipalities – not what they get in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1900	Thanks for the answer. There is good reason to remember that in 2004, the Workers’ Party went in to fully compensate for the tax failure of that year — and, in addition, increased transfers the following year. Then I have a follow-up, because the representative Njåstad was involved in this with a social profile and that it was important to strengthen the municipal structure: for many years the Progress Party has been marketing itself as the party for the most people, but after this budget someone will probably claim that it is misleading marketing. We now see that child care prices for ordinary people rise next year, and we see – according to the KS budget survey, which was presented on Friday – that user payments are increasing in a large number of municipalities. Several municipalities also increase the property tax. I think a lot of municipalities don't because they want to, but because they have to. But is the Progress Party satisfied that the municipal structure that this government is running ensures that most people have to pay more for municipal services and more for municipal fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1907	When it comes to history in 2004, we all know that the Labour Party criticised the government for opening up to a new principle: when there were multiples in the hall, a well-known figure made an outrage to put more money on the table, even though it was a principle once against, but for which I now record that one has turned 180 degrees and has been for. I also think it's a little strange to take up the nursery prices at the same time as attacking us for a bad social profile, because kindergarten prices are really an area where we show our social profile. We've lowered the prices for those who need the most, and it's a social profile. I would also like to tell the Labour Party that using these current budget surveys will not be entirely correct, at least not if you see the large image. Then it turns out that there is no big difference between the budget surveys and the next year's budget and the years under the red-green rule. Then the municipalities have made their priorities quite similar, because the growth in income for next year is quite similar to what he has been on average in the red-green years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1916	The Progress Party has on several occasions justified the dramatic cuts in regional development appropriations through the county with two arguments: firstly, that the role of planning authority is so important that there is no need for resources for economic development and, secondly, that transport is the key to establishing the basis for development and growth. I agree that transport is important for the districts, and then, above all, road appropriations. The central party has therefore strengthened the budget in relation to the government's budget by 400 million. kr for maintenance and renewal of the county roads. On the other hand, the Progress Party has reached a budgetary compromise which cut road appropriations by 330 million. kr for 2015. Does the Progress Party, however, not believe that transportation is the key to the basis for development and growth in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1923	Of course, we believe that transportation is important. When the representative, Mr Greni, says that one has cut, it is cut off from a budget which increases a great deal in transport. However, leaving a budget agreement on the table, there is no doubt that transport – and especially road – is one of the major winners in the budget. Within the county's economy, we're able to put off 200 million. kr extra to the county road network, so that one is now up for 1 billion. NOK, in addition to SEK 272 million. kr for maintenance of tunnel safety. At the top of it, one advises an interest compensation scheme that increases from 2 billion. to 3rd billion kr per year, which means that county councils can really bet on the road. So we don't have anything to be ashamed of when it's about the trade bet. Although the government's approach was better than the budgetary agreement within, the budgetary agreement provides the best budget by which this country has ever had.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1928	SV is very concerned that we spend the big money on the most important things. Before that, SV and the Advance Party have agreed that we sometimes have to label the money so that they can get where they are going. Now the government has more money at its disposal than any government has ever had. The chairperson of the Committee also says that it is important to apply it to those who need it the most. We now see that in many municipalities there are still very large gaps, for example: in the care of the elderly, by whom SV is engaged, and by which at least the Advance Party has previously been involved. That's why we put money into our budget, and we're earmarking it, so that the quality of care for the elderly is increased, while the Progress Party has spent its great effort on tax havens. I wonder if the chairman of the committee can explain why better private finances for the most wealthy and wealthy are more important than better care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1936	Parental care is important. As I said in my post, care for the elderly is one of the most important matters for which the municipalities are responsible. It is quite right that the care of the elderly is so important to us that we want to strengthen the rights and strengthen the funding of her, and I am very pleased that the government will come back next year with a proposal for a government-funded model of the care of the elderly as a pilot project. Then we have tried out our primary Progress Party model to legalize the care of the elderly and let the money come automatically when the need arises, which has been our primary policy. What might be the advantage of trying this out is that we then get our model benchmark up against the ordinary model, and then we can draw conclusions about which model is best when it comes to getting older people a decent and good care for the elderly. Our commitment to care for the elderly is not diminished by the fact that at the same time we felt it important to lower taxes in the country in order to create opportunities for further growth for our nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1941	The representative Mr. Danstad did not answer the question. The point is that you now have a lot of money at your disposal, and a lot of that money you choose to use to improve the private economy for the most prosperous and highly paid in this country. I don't know if they fall under the definition of those who need the public sector the most. I can't imagine they're doing it. On the other hand, many of the elderly and nursing people who do not get enough help at home or do not get sick home will be among those who need this money most. Well, that's a priority. Then you have to pick: if you have one billion, what do you want to spend that billion for? I record that the Progress Party has chosen to spend many billions for the richest, but has a municipal economy that most municipalities say will lead to cuts in care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1946	It's true, as Karin Andersen says, that there's a billion, so a billion must be given priority. And when we first talk about billions, I can say that we're strengthening the municipal economy by 7.8 billion. kr next year, and 4.7 of which are free revenues. It gives a growth of 1.5 pst., which is the level of what the previous government calls a historic boost. We don't use such words to put the list of municipal politicians so high that they have a hard time complying with everything, but we say that we have a scheme for the municipal sector that one cannot in any way say is to deprioritise the municipalities, which have elderly care as one of their most important areas. With the large growth of the municipalities next year combined with a pilot project with government-funded care for the elderly in some municipalities, we are confident that we have prioritised care for the elderly in the budget for 2015 and that the Progress Party's profile has also been maintained within the social profile attached to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1951	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1954	Norway will face many new challenges in the coming years. Strong population growth, older people, growing cities, other parts of the country that need new growth impulses, immigration and climate change are key to some of the societal changes that Norwegian society must face. At the same time, we are a country with great opportunities and with a very good starting point: people are at work, the differences are small, and more oil billions are to be phased into the state budget next year. We are best prepared for the future together. We do that by giving our children a good start in kindergarten and in school, by expanding good local health services and by building up enough capacity and recruiting enough people, so that we can provide the more and more older good and individually adapted services. A good local economy is the prerequisite for doing this. The Labour Party will spend the big money on the big tasks, and therefore the municipal welfare services are the main priority of the Workers' Party in our alternative budget for 2015, where we are committed to spending about 3.4 billion. kr more in the total income of the municipalities than the scheme of the government does. When the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has as its main contribution to the 2015 budget, the majority leave the difficult priorities to local politicians. The last municipal barometer, from October this year, shows that two thirds of the municipal leaders who were asked say they will have a lower economic space for next year. The budget survey from KS, which came last week and which is based on a sample of 78 municipalities, confirms this impression. And while the municipalities report that the framework is too scarce, that four out of ten municipalities will have more children's protection recipients, that one third of the municipalities will have more social welfare beneficiaries for the next year, and that the school budgets will be cut in many municipalities and county municipalities, then the municipal minister talks about historical bets in the municipalities. While the municipal minister, as one of the last convinced, still believes that billions in tax cuts will provide more well-being, he leaves to the local politicians to make the difficult cuts – which characterizes many of the country's local leaders these days. Here in the capital, city government politicians must cut for 327 million. kr. The rapporteur in Porsanger says that everyone in the municipality will notice the cuts. These are two very different municipalities, at each end of the country, but both are quite typical examples of what is now happening in the municipality of Norway. Prior to the 2013 elections, the choice between welfare and taxation was one of the most important issues. According to the Right and the Advance Party, we did not need to give priority: we should get both tax cuts and more well-being. Now we see that it wasn't that simple. We have received a lean municipal plan for 2015. The right is unable to deliver on his election campaign promise in 3 billion. kr more to the hospitals each year, and we get a fee almost on both bag and bag. I stumbled a little over the claim of the Progress Party here just about the social profile in the municipal structure for next year. I see it quite the opposite. While most of us, in one of the richest countries in the world, are left as the big budget winners of the harvest, most of the people feel that any tax cuts are eaten up by plastic bags, property taxes, and more expensive municipal services. And for the people of Bergen and Stavanger, it must be a great paradox that cuts in the wealth tax are exchanged into the introduction and increase of property taxes, which, incidentally, seem to hit both more and wider groups of the population than the wealth tax does. And now, after 61 municipalities have been surveyed in the KS budget survey, it is expected that property tax will increase by an average of 15 pst. In addition, the KS study shows that there will be real increases in user payments in municipal services, and this will, for example: could mean more expensive SFOs and more expensive home help. At the same time, the majority of adults have just decided to increase the number of kindergartens for most people. So those who have the most have to contribute less, while most people are expected to contribute more. It's unfair and will create greater differences among people. There is also reason to fear that the geographical differences will increase. The cut in regional development funds in 2014 and 2015 limits the possibility to pursue active industrial policies in those parts of the country that need it. The Workers' Party supports the increase in the appropriations for the county roads, which is in line with the adopted red-green national transport plan for 2014-2023. Of course, the Labour Party is pleased that the government is following up our policies on county roads, but I think that the government's use of language about historical bets is in stark contrast to the actual realities and their own previous promises in the field of transport. KS’ budgetary study highlighted that very point. More than half of the county councils believe that the maintenance seat run on the county roads will be about as today at the end of the financial planning period, while one third believe that the maintenance seat run will increase. More than half of those asked in the KS study believe that budgetary work is more demanding for 2015 than it was for 2014 and, in addition to the thin limits for 2015, many municipalities are struggling with lower tax revenues for 2014 than they have budgeted for. The latest data from the SSB show that the tax failure is approaching 3 billion. kr. And it goes without saying that if the tax failure is not compensated, the municipalities will go a big minus into 2015, with welfare cuts as a result. Therefore, the Workers' Party will compensate for the income deficit of the municipalities in the recent ageing of the 2014 budget – not because we want to introduce a new rule of action that means that tax failure should be constantly compensated, but because we believe it is right to do so in today's situation. This has made government parties a major issue of principle. Once the municipalities have retained the tax revenue for good years, it is clear that it is impossible to compensate by the State for the failure of revenue. It is a very honest thing not to want to give more money to the municipalities, but the logic of the government's argument is not easy to understand. The most curious argument against compensating for tax failure comes from the municipal minister himself. He has argued on several occasions that this was the former Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party, Hill-Marta Solberg. It has given me hope that in ten years – in 2024 – the next generation Right-People will do as I say! It's just a catch by it, and it's that the mayor doesn't really talk about what the Workers' Party and Hill-Marta Solberg did in 2004. It's a little weird to go into the 2004 debate on next year's budget, but if we're going to do that, let's at least do it on the right basis. The chairperson of the Committee has quoted Hill-Marta Solberg earlier in the debate – I will do that too. I quote her from the 2004 New Age debate: ‘On the part of the Workers’ Party, it is assessed that when the Government Parties and the Advance Party – i.e. the budgetary partners – did not find room to increase the size of the municipal sector by more than 800 million. in 2005, the allocation currently made is absolutely necessary. We also support it. In addition, the Labour Party believes that once the principle of compensating for the tax error is introduced, it should have been completed in full. We also vote in favour of full compensation." In 2004, the present government and the Progress Party ended up compensating for the tax failure, not in full, but in a long way. In 2009, the tax failure was fully compensated, which is why it is a little strange that the right-hand side states that it should be completely without anchoring in principles if it were to be done in 2014. I hope that the Christian People's Party and the Left think differently about the matter, because while the framework for 2015 has been laid down, there are still opportunities in terms of the new aging for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1992	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e1995	I registered the representative Helga Pedersen's opinions on the government's budget for 2015. I could imagine repeating a question related to it. The current Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen said so about the red-green proposals for the 2012 budget: «Communities receive a good increase in their revenues also next year.» Then the proposal was to increase the free income by 1.3 pst. Next year, the free income is growing by more than that. If 1.3 pst. growth was a good increase on the red-green scale, and the growth next year is even greater, how good would the representative Pedersen say that next year's income growth for municipalities is?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2007	I don't think you can make the discussion about the municipal structure for the next year and the years after that into a phase where you say that if it's just a certain percentage or a certain number of billions of dollars, it's good or bad. You have to see the expectations and the tasks that we want the municipalities to do, in relation to the resources that we are able to put in. This year we are also in the exceptional situation that the municipalities will go into next year with a tax failure that seems to be close to 3 billion. kr. The municipal scheme for 2015 is thin, although the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left has done something better, but with the approach that the municipalities now seem to get to 2015, this is a scheme that will lead to cuts in school, in welfare services, and that does not seem to make any difference in terms of county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2012	KS was much mentioned in the representative Pedersen's posts, and I'm going to site KS as well. In a comment they had to the state budget, they say in a press release: ‘Most of the increase in income will go to more nurturing and increased pension costs. The proposal for a State budget will lead to tough priorities for many municipalities next year.’ This was not the case with the State budget for the next year, but with the State budget for 2011. When we listen to the Labour Party, one might ask the big question: Have you forgotten what it was like to be a municipality in the eight years of red-green rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2022	Even under the red-green government, municipalities have had to make strict priorities sometimes, and they have also had to streamline from one year to the next. Nevertheless, the eight red-green years in government were a marked difference from the four years when the Bondevik II government ran with the support of the Progress Party. In the course of eight red-green years, the revenues of municipalities increased by 70 billion. kr – and new employees in the order of several tens of thousands. We've strengthened care services, employed more new teachers in school, and that's how we can keep going. I believe that the scheme for next year marks a breach in relation to the positive development that has occurred in the municipalities over the eight years, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2027	Among my reading material, I find the Workers' Party's program. It's important to read it, and they have a lot of experience, and I record that there are a lot of parallel interests in their program and what I find in the municipal bill on community mergers. Now we are going to start a national effort in terms of democratic reform. I also see that the Workers' Party is clear on its policy at most points, but then I hit an interesting point that I've heard a lot of rhetoric around, including in Arendalsuka, and that's joyous things. But it is a wording on page 66 of the programme that I am asking for an explanation of. It says: ‘Changes in the municipal structure should normally be based on local requirements’. Can the representative say what she sees that the party has thought if it's not normal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2040	I think it is very nice that the representative Tuskedal has read our party program, and it might be tempting to ask back: Have you also read the party programs to the Right and the Advance Party, and what do you like best? With regard to the formulations of the municipal structure, the representative Tuskedal has a quite correct representation. We are for changes in the municipal structure. We believe that it should normally be based on local desires, and that volunteering is the general rule. We are confident that good local processes are now being carried out and that we can be confident that we will find the good answers to future organisation at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2047	The President recalls that the speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2050	Unlike the previous representative, I must probably disappoint the representative Pedersen that I do not have the party program for the Workers' Party on the night table, but a book by Johan Ludwig Mowinckel, which I think is perhaps a little more interesting – but enough about it. The representative said in his speech that ‘Norway will meet many new challenges in the years to come’ in terms of well-being, but then I wonder: Isn’t this just giving business opportunities, what contributes to creating growth and well-being across the country? With an offensive business life, we are involved in ensuring well-being. Then I notice during this debate that one is very eager to look back, and I wonder at the following: I myself have been in municipal government for 20 years – under numerous governments. Were not these challenges at least equal when the Workers' Party itself put into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2059	In the Labour Party, we are absolutely most concerned about the future, and that is why we are also giving priority to local economy over all other priorities in the budget for next year. Because if we are to equip Norway for the future, prepare for the future for children and young people, prepare Norway for the increase in the number of older people, then we have to equip the municipalities to do that. Then, too, there have been major challenges to business in our time of government – not least when the financial crisis occurred in 2008. That is why it was important that we had muscles to take action because we had not allowed ourselves to be tempted, like many other European countries, to give tax cuts, but that we could then put money into maintenance, road construction and an active industrial policy. And that's the opportunity we have to keep going, not least in relation to the regions and county municipalities around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2066	Sickness if SV is paying more attention to local economy and housing policy than the Workers' Party is doing, I perceive that we agree very much on the direction. Another area that we have agreed on, but where perhaps the Workers' Party is a little more open than SV, is about the commercialisation and outsourcing of the public sector. However, I am surprised when we in the vote have made a proposal that has been supported by the Central Party, to get transparency around key quality indicators, for example. The manpower situation, in services for which the municipalities are responsible, but which are outsourced – and in particular because we know that part of the law applicable to the public sector does not apply to them. For example, if you have a private school that goes bankrupt, some students have problems getting their grades out because the archival law doesn't apply. That is why I need to ask the Labour Party: what is the reason why they do not want to be part of this proposal, proposal No. 30 in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2071	I can only confirm what Andersen's representative says: the working party and SV are two different parties, but we share the basic view of the direction, and not least of the municipality. I also fully agree with Mr Andersen that basic welfare services should not be put out for competition or commercialised. After all, we also made a proposal with the same wording as Andersen's representative here, in the municipal proposition in ours. So why we don't agree with this proposal now, I don't have a good answer to that, but we're going to look at that in the afternoon, because we're supporting the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2083	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2086	The municipalities are a foundation of Norwegian democracy, people who combine to solve important tasks together: providing good schools and the growing-up environment, caring for the elderly, sick and drug users and good housing and business development conditions. A robust and predictable local economy is important in order for municipalities to be able to carry out their tasks and for a living local democracy. Therefore, the government proposed a real increase in the income of municipalities and counties of 6.2 billion. kr for 2015, of which SEK 4.4 billion. SEK was free of income. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left further strengthens the local economy. The next year's growth in free income is about 4.7 billion. kr. This enables Norwegian municipalities to strengthen important welfare services and close gaps in the social security network. Growth is about the same level as in the last decade. In fact, if we look at the growth of free incomes after taking into account population developments, demographics, growth in 2015 is greater than it was in 2011, greater than in 2012 and greater than in 2013 — under the red-green government — and far greater than that adopted in 2014. The real economic space for the municipal sector is growing in 2015 than it has been in recent years. I thought of it in a line – then Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen mentioned the 2012 budget from the red-green likes: «Communities receive a good increase in their revenues also next year.» Then the free revenues increased by 1.3 pst. Next year they'll increase even more. KS said this in an October report last year: «Tross real growth in the free income of the municipal sector in recent years has not allowed for greater room for action for local politicians.» It was the judgment of the red-green government. Last year the KS also presented a survey of advisers showing that nearly 60 pst. notified a more demanding budgetary work than the previous year. KS has repeated the study this year. In fact, in this year’s survey, a slightly lower proportion of the advisers report budgetary challenges. My point is not the difference from last year, and that it might look a little better for some advisers, but that the message of demanding budgetary work is not new – for some of us. The difference is, rather, that where the red-green parties have been most concerned with providing a beauty painting of their own efforts and a black paint of other parties for which there is no basis, we are clear from the Right and from the majority that although the economic structure for 2015 is good, it will still be necessary to prioritize between good purposes and to streamline municipal services. And then we know that the municipalities' tax revenue is going to be lower this year than it is budgeted for. How much lower do we know until the end of the year? There are also some other numbers that are moving in the opposite direction, more positive direction, but it is clear that the situation can pose challenges for many municipalities. Then it's affordable that KS, unlike the opposition in this hall, is able to think about the problem in principle. In the last ten years, tax revenue has totaled about 20 billion. kr higher than the estimate in the State budget. These are income retained by the local government sector. We believe that you cannot keep the profit in the majority of years in which the growth is greater than estimated, and at the same time assume compensation for the few years it gets lower. It doesn't require KS either. It is a thought for which KS has expressed its support in principle. The alternative to municipalities having their own tax revenues ranging from one year to another is one hundred per cent grant-funded municipal sector. Right does not want that, but I have to admit that I am beginning to doubt the Workers' Party on this issue. Probably there's not too much cause for concern, I'm probably interpreting primarily that it's the opposition face of the Workers' Party that turns out here. Jens and Sigbjørn would not allow this, to say so. The growth of free income in 2015 provides the basis for strengthening health stations and school health services. We strengthen mental health services and the follow-up of drug addicts and facilitate more flexible childcare services. In addition, important measures such as the right to user-led personal assistance, free core time in kindergarten and lower kindergarten prices for families with poor finances, and the strengthening of the apprenticeship grant will be included. In other words, the right-wing Party government, together with the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, strengthens the ability of municipalities to do a good job. But different municipalities have different challenges. Local authorities that grow heavily often have a period of extra high costs for setting up, among other things. schools and kindergartens. Therefore, we strengthen the growth grant, both by increasing the number of municipalities that come under the scheme – from 24 to 68 municipalities – and by increasing the amount, from just under 61 million. NOK to nearly 400 million. kr next year. Skaun municipality outside Trondheim is a typical growth municipality, and on 9 October the address newspaper reported: ‘Sampling is a budget winner.’ Of course, it is a municipality that is in significant growth and therefore also benefits from the growth grant. I was visiting Skaun quite recently, it's a beautiful, rural, but also urban municipality, economically quite well run, but with significant population growth. It's a positive challenge, but Skun and other municipalities in the same situation now have a better chance of dealing with what we call the growing pain. This is a policy that works. Another policy that works is to strengthen the budgets for transport. It is important for the environment, for most people, but also for growth and value creation throughout the country. Last week, the Stortinget adopted a historic upturn in the budget for transport. In addition, then, since accession, the municipal minister and the government have strengthened the appropriations for district roads by over 1 billion. NOK 272 million. kr for securing tunnels. This comes on top of the fact that we have continued the system of interest compensation for transport measures in the counties of the Ministry of Transport, and yet we are increasing it now from 2 to 3 billion. kr per year. However, policies that work are also more than money. Norway needs the modernisation of the public sector, time thieves need to be removed and everyday life simplified. We need stronger municipalities that can get more tasks and be less detailed controlled by the state, so that we get better services and communities that decide more on their own development. It also means strengthening the municipalities as a foundation for the rule of law. The right-wing Party government strengthens the municipal economy, facilitates more and better well-being, improves the situation of the growth communities, strengthens roads and infrastructure across the country and reforms the public sector for the benefit of its citizens – to mention something. This budget helps to solve important tasks today, and it helps to equip Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2147	We'll try to look forward, the representative Jensen and I. Many new municipalities came into the system of differentiated employer fees, and they were generally happy about that. But then it turns out that these municipalities will lose financially as a result of being drawn into the framework, and that the discretionary grants do not cover up this feature, so that you become neutral. Then I would like to ask: Can the representative Jensen from the Right assure these municipalities that in the years to come they will not lose financially on being part of the system of differentiated employer fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2155	This is one of the issues in which the Workers' Party has amazed me very much in this budgetary procedure, by the fact that they have clearly turned around in relation to what they have done in government. Differentiated employer’s fee is a scheme for business in the districts, not for the municipalities. Therefore, I assume that the Workers' Party agrees that in municipalities that receive a lower employer's fee, the business community there should benefit from the scheme – not the municipality fund, or for that part of other public offices. We have corrected that in this budget. We have also said that when the disadvantage of a high employer’s fee that someone has had and for which extra means of discretion have been provided is gone, we also step down the discretionary means – why should you provide beauty and compensate for a disadvantage that is gone? I am also happy to hear a good answer from the Workers' Party. But we have said that the change that happens as a result of the fact that the county councillors are now stepping down their discretionary powers must be done with discretion. That's just the point. We have also registered that some statesmen may have taken in a little too much, and we now ask in our remarks that we take into account, so that the municipalities get better out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2162	The local authorities and I register the answer. As the representative Jensen had in mind, KS has had an investigation among the councillors and municipalities. There it turns out that there are now many who say that it is much harder to put together a good budget for 2015 than it was for 2014. We also look at municipalities' websites and in newspapers from the north to the south that a number of municipalities are alerting about increased property taxes and about cuts in services. Does the representative Jensen think that these answers from the municipalities indicate that they have been properly prioritised in the budget, or is it simply such that the tax rates in the draft budget were more important than the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2169	The government and the majority of the population generate good growth in the free income of municipalities, in addition to what it has been under the red-green government in recent years. We do not hide the fact that many Norwegian municipalities still need to give priority between good purposes and the conversion of their own business. However, with regard to the reading of the KS Councillor survey, it is possible that we have read the tables a little differently. I read them so that, in the spring of last year, it was 57-58 pst. by the consultants who reported that there were major budgetary problems in the autumn of the previous year, the survey of the year shows that only around 51 pst. Councillors say that budgetary work has greater problems than in the previous year. In fact, fewer councillors are experiencing problems with budgetary work now. I don't put too much emphasis on it. My point is that this is not new. Norwegian municipalities face challenges in budgetary work, and this has also been the case in recent years – including under the red-green government. It would have been interesting if the Workers' Party could also admit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2178	The right went to the elections to strengthen education, and, as we are sure to agree, the basis for primary education is laid. Despite the fact that KS reports that 40 pst. of the municipalities now have to increase the property tax, that 60 pst. of the municipalities have a general increase over and above the increase in the price of user payments, it is 65 pst. which announces budget cuts. And the most frightening thing is that the biggest budget cuts now hit the education sector, they hit the primary school. It's the biggest cut in primary school. That's where you can't keep track of the rise in wages and prices. This means that they must cut into adapted training and that there will be a poorer basis for those going to higher education. This also applies to very many right-hand-hand controlled municipalities. What is it that these local politicians have not realized when they are unable to get a so-called historically good budget to give anything to the school sector, but rather a clear cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2185	The centre party's concern on this issue would have been a lot more credible if it had done something about everything you now point out, while you put yourself in government. But the fact is that next year the growth of the local economy is completely in line with what the growth of the local economy was under the red-green. Then it is that Norwegian municipalities give priority. I put my trust in Norwegian municipal politicians also prioritizing school. This government has arranged for it. We have also strengthened the system of continuing training for teachers, which many municipalities now benefit from, so that more and more teachers get better continuing training so that we will over time get better teachers and hopefully also more teachers into the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2192	When we look at the size of local action areas, we have to look at both the year’s budget and next year’s budget in the context. When we know it's up to 3 billion. kr in tax failure this year, is this proper money. It is not that when the turn of the year comes, all these sorrows are turned off. This is the money you have to subtract from the so-called very large investment that this government has in the municipal sector. This is money that the municipalities have to fund in some way. They won't be gone. Can the representative from the Right explain to the local government how to save these 3 billion? kr in tax failure in years that right now will not be in and compensate, and how will it turn out on the calculation that municipalities will have to get into jumps to next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2199	First, next year's growth is calculated independently of this tax failure, so it's kind of comparable numbers we have anyway. It would have been interesting, if the representative from SV has more speaking time, to hear if SV actually believes that we should turn to the scheme and rather have a fully funded local government sector and not own tax revenues for the municipalities. What is the point of having a tax-funded local government sector? I record and take note that although there are also some figures that are drawing in the opposite direction and in a more positive direction, which are involved in compensating for and reducing the net impact of this tax failure, there are many municipalities that are facing challenges. But then I also record, since it has now been so clear in the debate from several others, that the KS Councillor's survey indicates that there are not so many municipalities that have challenges to carve together and get the municipal budget for the next year to balance, even when we do not know the figures related to the tax failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2206	I think it's possible to read these studies in a slightly different way, because it was bad last year, and now even more people think it's worse than last year. And that says a little bit about evolution. I can ask the representative for something else, because one is also concerned about municipal reform and tasks for the municipal sector. One of them is about tax collection. And tax collection is one of the tasks that today is being done very well locally. The government has now decided to do State, contrary to everything else, to give new tasks to the local government sector. And it is quite bad when the Norwegian Chamber of Commerce and Municipalities document that the tax collection in Norway is at the top of the world, and that local chemistry is much more effective than the state. They also point out that if you state this, it can be a large sample top for the municipalities. Why do you have to state a function that works well locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2213	From the Right, we are very concerned that Norwegian municipal politicians should have the opportunity to pursue policies locally, that they should not simply be the initiators of government-determined policies. However, with regard to tax collection, we believe that there should not be a discretionary task, that it should be up to the local government to collect taxes and taxes. It is a task that can actually be used for centralisation and efficiency improvement, and the government has put forward a proposal in line with that. And just to say it: if this is how Andersen's representative believes that the municipal scheme was bad for the councillors last year, I would just like to remind you that when the councillors replied to the KS's municipal study last year, if it was difficult to get the budgets to go together, they replied on the basis of the draft budget submitted by her own government – a budget proposal that I now record as being bad for the municipalities last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2220	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2223	The Christian People's Party believes that the arrangement and budgetary settlement are now in line with the municipal proposition: tight, but feasible, with further development of good welfare. The Christian People's Party will thank the government and the Left for constructive cooperation to get there. The municipalities manage the main welfare schemes in Norway. The income base must then provide predictability of residence and good welfare services according to the tasks to be undertaken by the municipality. The Christian People's Party will have a district policy that allows it to live, work, run the industry and get an equivalent service offer across the country. It is important to focus on development, innovation and good infrastructure in order to develop all regions. The Christian People's Party believes that an effective, modern administration must ensure a good and adapted service provision for the people. It needs to be easier to identify in public bureaucracy through simplification of forms and legislation. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to implementing a democracy reform for municipalities, regions and parts of the country. It is a public task to pursue a social housing policy. New dwellings and buildings must be universally designed, accessible and usable for people with disabilities, both young and older. Housing aid for municipal and private dwellings shall be harmonised over a period of two years. Simplification of planning and building laws can facilitate increased housing construction: measures that in the long term bring less pressure on the market. The Christian People's Party wants more people to buy their own housing. The Christian People's Party also believes that the Husbank's loan framework should be increased for the better. The budget agreement strengthens the work on sustainable housing and building quality by 2 million. kr. There is a need for more environmentally- and energy-friendly housing, construction and outdoors. The Christian People's Party is also pleased with the adjustment of housing support to disability and awaits with stress on a permanent system, so that they do not lose support because of the conversion of disability. The Christian People's Party and the Left have contributed to an increase of 207 million children's playgrounds in the budget agreement. NOK in addition to 100 million. kr from the government, which gives 3,400 new places. The offer of free core time in kindergarten to low-income families has been reinforced by 51 million. kr. There will be an increase in the income limit for differentiated kindergarten prices. The budget agreement also increases the allocation of child protection measures for families in municipalities, including a strengthening of child protection in Oslo, to a total of 30 million. kr. In addition, a significant effort in primary school will be made to strengthen teacher resources for early intervention in the low class stages of 200 million. kr from August. The Christian People's Party is also pleased with a significant increase in school health, health, drug prevention and psychiatry. The Christian People's Party and the Left also contributed 220 million to the municipalities. kr in reimbursement for particularly resource-intensive services, by the way, many Right-Rapporteurs asked me. The Christian People's Party wants users over 67 years of age to be included in this scheme in the long term. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we contributed to the continuation of the cultural walking stick. Even more importantly, the increased allocation is 78 million. kr for increased apprenticeship grants. Too many young people lack approved apprenticeships. The Christian People's Party believes that the conversion of the tax system for the disabled in 2015 must have a minimal impact on the distribution of free income between municipalities. The Christian People's Party believes that compensation should be provided for exceptional costs of cleaning up and dealing with acute emergency situations in the event of natural damage. We ask the government to come back to the matter in the revised national budget. Some municipalities face challenges when converting to a new income system. The Christian People's Party is pleased that total loss compensation increased by 60 million. NOK 185 million. kr in the negotiations, with maximum compensation for those who lose the most, for five years. The situation is demanding, and the Christian People's Party is asking these county councils not to use the appropriations to postpone the necessary adaptations. Together with the Left, however, we believe that the government needs to further assess the need to strengthen the loss compensation. In 2014, 31 municipalities received a reduced employer’s fee. The Christian People's Party believes that they must keep the prize so that no one loses on the change. Instead of deducting the benefit of a differentiated employer’s tax from the discretionary means, the benefit has been deducted from the framework grant. Compensation for previous changes has been included in the basic grant. Now we are asking the government to ensure that the county councillors do not make any changes that result in a significant reduction in the discretionary grant for individual municipalities from one year to another. We also expect the government to assess the conversion and come back to the case in the municipal bill and revise the national budget. The Christian People's Party will provide for a living government in which elected representatives can exploit their local knowledge. We therefore believe that party support should be increased, at least in accordance with price and wage developments. New public impositions against the local laws have provided considerable additional work and should have been simplified.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2257	I would first like to thank the Tuskedal representative for a good contribution, which described many of the main points of reference of the Christian People's Party, to which I very much agree with the representative. The government has drastically cut regional policy instruments for several rounds. We have seen cuts in regional development funds, proposed cuts in travel life, proposed broadband cuts and cuts in agricultural transfers. The government has also said that it wants to centralise the municipal tax collection. This will mean the centralisation of very many areas of competence – from districts to central areas. We in the Workers' Party want a different course. We want to create growth across the country to realize our great opportunities. Let me give the Christian People's Party praise that in many cases they slow down and get to reverse some of the cuts. The problem is that the direction is the same. So my question is, is the Christian People's Party satisfied with the direction of government's district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2266	It's not to hide that in our own budget we would have prioritised a little bit differently. We've had a greater sense of regional development than the government has, and we tried to negotiate that. Nevertheless, we see that the distortion of a priority transport is in line with the signals we get from business. But we probably wanted it to be more spent in district funds. On the other hand, we have met many other issues that have been very important to the Christian People's Party. Overall, we're satisfied. Given the size of our party, we record that we have achieved more than we could imagine in advance, so we are satisfied with the result. In the case of local tax collection, we support what the representative Håheim says. We want one to continue with this in the municipalities, and believe that it is a significant advantage of a competence environment in the municipalities that have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2275	The majority of the parties have recognised that the conversion of the keys for the allocation of the framework appropriations to the county councils has failed and that it is necessary to strengthen the loss compensation in addition to the government's proposal. That's good, even though the Center Party thinks the increase is still too small. The majority comment indicates that the government will continue to work with the sector key for boat and ferry, and that the ministry will look at the desire to establish a ferry relief scheme. When we dealt with the municipal bill in the spring, our proposal to set up such a scheme was unfortunately voted down. The centre party believes that there must be a change of the cost keys now. That is why we believe that the majority comment is becoming too weak. My question to the Christian People's Party is whether they agree with the Central Party that it is not enough just to see whether such a system should be established, but that it must be implemented quite immediately, and what a timetable the Christian People's Party sees for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2284	The Christian People's Party has had good contact with the county councils concerned, and has been thoroughly involved in the matter. With regard to the government’s 125-million-dollar allocation. NOK, we got a plus of 60 million. NOK – to SEK 185 million. kr. And we got a pass that this could last for five years. There is a significant improvement for the counties concerned. We have also been clear in the comment that we want an increase further if possible, we have signaled that in the setting. We understand that the county councils have special expenses, and we will go into that. In the case of a changed cost key, it requires significant professional competence. That's what we expect the government to take care of. We want that, because we want to compensate where this applies. But the county councils must not rest on the fact that it can be the result – they must deal with a tight budget. That is the reality of the new income system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2293	My question was on bottom and ground with ferries and whether the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the wording that they should look at the establishment of such a system. I have the impression that it is very urgent to put such a system in place, so that this will work around the county municipalities. What kind of progress plan does the Christian People's Party see for itself to put in place such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2298	The Christian People's Party agrees that this is important. It's important for the county councils, for transportation and for the regions and districts, so the Christian People's Party is impatient about this, but I can't set a specific timeframe for it. I assume that the government is working optimally to obtain the information needed to get to that system. I have good faith that the government wants it to come into place quickly. This is an important part of the development of regions and parts of countries in Norway, and it is linked to the establishment of a larger infrastructure with roads. The government has, until now, prioritised transportation, so I hope and believe that this will come quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2305	Traditionally, the Christian People's Party and the SV have perhaps been the parties that have been most united in the distribution between the poor and the rich – between people, between countries and perhaps between municipalities, I hope. But now the Christian People's Party has chosen a side where one wants to increase differences, both between people and between municipalities. In addition to that, I have gone through and looked at district policy, the municipal economy and housing, immigration and asylum, and I have found that in all these areas the Christian People's Party is much more in agreement with SV than with the parties they now support. I would like to know what it is that makes the Christian People's Party now think it makes sense, for example. spending a lot more money on tax incentives for the most prosperous, rather than ensuring better finances for municipalities or better housing policies, on which the representative was involved. There are many people who need housing, and who need support to have a home.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2312	I'm tempted to answer both ideologically and concretely from the budget, but let me take ideology first: let's say we agreed with SV, but then it's for a small party the more important to go to a government that has tax incentives as top priority, in a meeting, because we haven't. We didn't need that tax haven, and we also put it clearly in our own budget. But the more important it must be for the Norwegian people that we enter into such cooperation. That proves the results we've got. In the fields of family policy, volunteering, transportation, justice and health, the Christian People's Party has been given its clear stamp in this budget. That's probably the explanation. I expect the representative from SV to know what it is like to cooperate in a government with large parties. Then it's about getting a pass on their issues. In the red-green period of government, we had a breakthrough. Now we experience being heard and getting a significant impact on things that mean a lot to people and districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2319	I have commended the Christian People's Party for some of the things they have achieved in this budgetary agreement, that's good. But the point is that they are actually much closer to other parties with which it is possible to form a majority together, in order to get a policy that stands even closer to the hearts of the Christian People's Party, for example. with regard to the distribution between poor and rich, the use of more of the common wealth we have, on important services such as care for the elderly and child protection, and the ability to have a good housing policy and not to have such a large cut in e.g. housing, as this government presents, where we know that it affects those who can't afford to have a home, or that you get what the representative of the Center Party was up here and said: a distortion of district policy, where you have to bet on the strongest, bet on the centres, What is the reason why the Christian People's Party nevertheless chooses to cooperate with the parties with which they most disagree?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2326	I think it's important to see what the Christian People's Party has achieved, which is completely new in this period, and which did not happen in the previous period. This is the number of quota refugees that we've increased by 500. We've achieved 1 pst. for assistance. We have achieved a significant increase in early school interventions. We have achieved significant additional funding in health, etc. That the red-greens now say that we had achieved more with them, I'm not sure. It's the opposition's privilege to say that, but the Christian People's Party is looking for real politics, and that's what we've come across for now on a case-by-case basis. The continuation will show how this works, but at least we are now satisfied with the situation in these negotiations, even if we wish that the budget was more distorted in social terms than we have. But without us, this would look completely different. I'm dealing with that, and it gives motivation in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2337	In the Central Party, we are deeply concerned about the government's distributional signals in its 2015 government budget. The budget has negative distribution effects between groups and between districts. We've got a marked tax return after the government shift towards more to those who have the most from before – it's people or regions. The centre party has given less tax relief than the government, it gives us the opportunity to strengthen efforts in key areas of society. In our proposal, the framework for the local government sector is increasing by 3.7 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring that citizens have access to good welfare services such as school, care and social services, public transport, roads, culture, etc. In the last few days, we have had a debate on the situation in the care of the elderly. The Health Minister has said that the State must take greater responsibility for ensuring a decent level of service. It has been said that residents of our nursing homes must be offered care and activity over sedative medicine, and it is stated that the competences of the care of the elderly are too poor. Many municipalities also provide very good services in the care of the elderly, but many places are justified. However, the most important thing must be to discuss measures to improve conditions. So there are institutions that over-medicate and that don't give users the opportunity to get out. The institutional justification is that it is on staff resources. Warm hands require employees who have time to provide the care that older people need and who the employees would very much like to give them. Several employees require a larger budget, we all know that. The state must take greater responsibility, said the Minister of Health, but the government does not add money to such a bet. The proposals of the centre party could certainly have been more frank, but within the framework we have at our disposal, welfare is a priority. Unfortunately, the majority prioritizes the tax bill. There's a centralization of settlement here in the country. In the Central Party, we believe that the policy should be used to counter relocation flows due to shortages of jobs where many people would very much like to live. Our policy is to give people the opportunity to live where they want to, and work and have their lives where they want to. Many want to move to a district municipality, but lack of jobs prevents them. I have a certain impression that our current government is thinking the opposite. The State budget for 2015 is marked by proposals and measures that will speed up migration flows and centralisation of Norway. I'll give you some examples. The government has proposed to multiply the municipal growth grant to the municipalities. They're worth 330 million. kr needed, taken from the framework, so that municipalities have to pay without growth or with a decline in the population. On the other hand, the government withdraws the effect that 31 district municipalities have been reduced by the employer due to the conversion due to EU requirements. The central party grants the money to the growth municipalities and believes that the municipalities must retain a substantial part of the benefits that the 31 municipalities were promised when the government provided the differentiated employer's fee. Another example is the introduction of new keys into the allocation of the framework allocation to county municipalities. The government's proposal for new keys is going hard on the districts. Both Sogn and Fjordane and Nordland would lose 250 million. kr or more over a five-year period if the arrangement of the government had been followed. Oslo will win more than the two counties lose together. We all agree that we should go through the distribution keys, but the enormous redistribution that the government wants provides dramatic results in changing opportunities to offer school places to young people and public transport services to the inhabitants. Now, fortunately, there are loss compensation schemes that correct a little bit, but in a very close enough way. The Central Party is proposing 100 million. kr in increased loss compensation and a distribution of this money which appears to give the most to the most disadvantaged counties. I also believe that there is a need to review these cost keys. We have lost the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and have returned to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. I understand why the term ‘regional’ was rejected by the blue-blue government. The dramatic cuts in the regional policy efforts of the department show this. From the red-green budget in 2014 to the government’s proposal for 2015, appropriations for district and regional policy have been reduced by nearly 30 pst. In particular, regional development funds are very tight. The municipalities cooperate closely with Innovation Norway and the municipalities and have created a lot of job development in all parts of the country. The government is building up this work, with a particular focus on entrepreneurial finance and innovation programmes that are of major importance for the development of business, especially in economically weak areas. I hear the government figures say that they are rates in the districts through increased traffic, but not even in the transport sector is budget something to boast about. We've seen from the Center Party, we've had to strengthen it by 400 million. kr. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Central Party has with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2360	The representative Heidi Greni then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2365	The representative of the Greni criticized the government for the new income system of the county councils, particularly Sogn and Fjordane. The previous income system dates from the 1990s, and there was a new income system for the county councils of the red-green government every year in the previous period. In this budget, the opposition party proposes an additional outsourcing, by asking the government to assume that the income system of the county councils will remain unchanged in 2015, and that one should go back to new rounds and return to the municipal proposition for 2016. We know that the Central Party from 2005 to 2013 had the Council of State in the Ministry of Local Affairs in a multi-territorial government. What kind of information is missing from the Centre Party during all these years to put in place a new income system for county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2372	The most demanding thing is to put in place a good income system that works for public transport, not least in terms of ferry and boat traffic. It is almost completely impossible to find something that is objective and that reflects the real costs. We have not criticised the emergence of new cost keys for county municipalities. That was something we also worked with the last few years of government, and it was time it came. But what we have criticised is that the guarantee of income was removed at the same time, and that there is no loss compensation system in place that allows these municipalities to actually maintain the operation of secondary schools, maintain the school structure at the secondary level and also maintain a collective offer, not just a school kiss offer. We have also criticised the fact that the new keys presented are reasonably hopeless to get an overview. The partial cost keys have not been provided and it is not shown why these outputs come. There was also a very big change from the municipal bill to the budget now in the autumn, which has not been made visible by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2381	This is not an answer, because we had a multi-stakeholder government that could have set up new cost keys, which for several years alerted the government budget to new cost keys, and which still did not deliver. Now the representative says that there was a part that was unclear when it came to what they wanted to put into the cost keys of the previous government, but it must be quite obvious that they had all the possibilities to create new cost keys for the county councils if they wanted it. My question to Mr. Greni's representative is: was there a dispute in the red-green government about how to get new cost keys, income keys, for county councils, which caused this to be postponed year after year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2388	Very familiar there was no discussion that caused it to be exposed, I was familiar with the problem that it was too difficult to find good models for how to put ferry operations into the county municipal keys. As we see today, the results that are, indicate that the model that has now been found is not good enough, nor is it well worked through. But it's hard to find good models that take care of ferry operations, from Oslofjord to Finnmark, and until we've been able to put in place good models that can actually be explained, and which are readable and understandable to those who are involved, this should be exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2395	The representative, Greni, said that the Senterpartiet strengthens the municipal economy in its alternative proposal for a government budget. It makes me post Liv Signe Navarsete, the impending municipal minister, who answered the opposition during the handling of the municipal bill for 2014 – who also made more money at the time: ‘What a lot does when it is in opposition is of less importance. That's not what expresses the party's real will. It is when you are in the position that the policy becomes a reality.' Is the representative of Mr Greni in agreement with the then municipal minister in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2405	Unlike the opposition in the past, we have put less money into the budget than the government parties have done; we have actually used less of the oil fund than the government parties have done before. Once upon a time, there has been a policy of surrender, not least by the Progress Party, which uses paper money in opposition. We have a responsible policy, and we actually have the right to give priority to the municipal sector by using less of the Community's funds. But we have not given priority to tax relief to the richest, as the Progress Party has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2410	The representative, Mr. Greni, says that centralization has speeded up. Then I wonder if this has actually turned around over the last eight years, if there has been anything else in the past. A chatter down the regional links around the country and designates them as losers. The representative Tuskedal was in the middle of this precisely how accurate was the loss compensation scheme that the Left and Christian People's Party got into. I wonder if the representative, Mr. Greni, sees that nobody is ever going to create growth. And not least I want to ask another question, because I notice that the Center Party has now put in again Saemien Sijte, which they did not achieve while they were in government. What does that mean – was it then the Workers' Party that destroyed the possibility of having it implemented, as it is now in place in the Centre's alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2417	It is possible that the representative of Skkelstad does not remember the replacement of the line from the previous round, because then I answered the exact same question. The reason that Saemien Sijte did not come in until the last budget was that the agreement with the tenants was not in place until then. Now, when I see the comments from the majority parties, where they must have allocated funds to a completely new pre-project where there is to be a new project, I think it is relatively bad that no signal was given to the developers a year ago that it was actually a matter of having to be reprojected into a cheaper project. Now, the whole project has been going on for a whole year, precisely because the majority parties have not given those signals. In the case of regional development funds, it is not just the counties that are now reduced; there is a reduction over the whole of the region. There is a reduction in agricultural resources, a reduction in resources for the tourism industry, a reduction in the ‘all over’ rural industries, and a reduction in rural areas. And when the county councils are deprived of the opportunity they have, it will lead to increased centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2427	One of the trends we now see in many municipalities, especially those that are right-wing, is that more and more competition and tenders are being used. SV wants to cooperate with the voluntary sector, but otherwise we believe that we should promote well-being in public. But it is that some of these commercial actors are not obliged to comply with the same law as the public, in particular with regard to the administrative law, the public disclosure law and the archival law. It makes it difficult to compare the results you get from this, and it becomes secret about important quality indicators that you need to know something about if you're out there to figure out what works best. That is why we have made a proposal to ensure full transparency on these quality indicators, and that the same law must also be followed. Then the question is, why can't the Central Party support this bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2434	We will assess that at a later stage. There has been no discussion in the game. At least we share the SV's basic view that public services should be operated by the public sector. The provision of public services largely means that the funds that could have been used 100 pst. for the provision of services, benefits are channelled into the pockets of large operators. That's why we're incredibly sceptical about, among other things. the municipal reform that has now been able to facilitate greater privatisation of public services, on the basis of which the right-wing parties will facilitate the provision of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2439	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2442	The public is completely dependent on the value creation of private businesses. It is equally clear that business depends on a well-functioning public sector. Not least, good schools are necessary to enable Norwegian enterprises to continue to claim in the knowledge industry, and good childcare facilities are important for participation in professional life, but it must nevertheless be an objective that growth in public expenditure is lower than growth in society. Much effort is being made by public sector employees, all of whom depend on us, but the system needs to be reformed in order to improve the services of citizens. Making use of new technologies in the public sector is part of this. Better coordination between administrative levels and simplification is another part. It is a challenge that the public sector continues to grow larger and larger, and that state control increases and tasks increase. It is desirable to improve efficiency and move more government tasks downwards. This is also the basic idea of the Left in terms of local and regional reform, which will be important for providing equivalent services throughout the country, and not least providing municipalities and regions with better opportunities to pursue a more holistic policy. I would also like to remind you that the public has a special responsibility to facilitate participation in the professional life of people with disabilities. The left believes it is important to make visible and take care of Sami culture and minorities within the Sami culture, including Southern Sami culture. Therefore, I am very pleased that we can look again at the Saemien Sijte Foundation to realize a new Southern Sami museum and cultural centre and a better museum building. It is also important to focus on measures in the districts to create enthusiasm and commitment to local development. This must mainly be done on the basis of local initiative and interests. The county council is responsible for assisting municipalities and small communities in facilitating this. Broadband development is also important for districts and, in particular, the grant scheme should be used to increase broadband capacity and mobile coverage in areas where the market is not functioning properly. It is important that volunteering is stimulated, and I am very pleased that last round we also got a bet on the MOT. The left, moreover, refers to its alternative budget with comments across the entire field. The county has many tasks, including high school, culture, cultural memory protection, transport, etc., but I would also like to point to the role of planning authority, where the county can play an important role in ensuring regional development and contributing to the creation of regional growth. Being able to own a self-contained dwelling is important. Therefore, it is important that more people are given the opportunity to settle in owner-occupied dwellings. It is also important that the State stimulates municipalities to build more and reasonable rental dwellings. It is also important in areas with major living conditions challenges that the State contributes to development by improving the physical environment and stimulating local involvement and participation. The state's contribution to Groruddalsatsingen in Oslo has been absolutely crucial. The house bank must also play a central role in the future. The House Bank must help to give more disadvantaged people a good place to live, and more housing and construction meet the challenges of the future, with increasing demands for environmentally and energy-friendly housing, and not least for universally designed housing. Municipalities and county councils are autonomous, elected administrative bodies responsible for basic welfare services such as school, child protection and health and care services. It is therefore important to ensure good framework conditions for municipalities and county municipalities and to respect local self-government through a greater degree of free income. It is the starting point of the Left that the decentralisation of power and authority is an active regional policy action. The policies of the left on municipal structure, regional policy, industrial development, agriculture, transport and, above all, on communication, knowledge and health, to mention some of the most central policy areas, are designed to strengthen and empower local communities and district centres and to enable them to live and live throughout the country. For the Left, reducing child poverty has been a targeted policy for many years. Therefore, it is important to do something about the assessment of Nav’s role in this. It is also important that the school dropout is given a stronger focus, and therefore it is important that the public take the lead, not least in the case of apprentices. It is therefore worrying that the lack of apprenticeships helps to increase the drop-out rate in high school. The left is satisfied with the bet on the rake field that we've got four games to do. Furthermore, we are pleased that we have put in place a loss compensation scheme that we have fought for too long, and which we also pointed out in connection with the municipal proposition that we would come back to. In a note, we also point out – as the representative Tuskedal has also mentioned – that we will look at and assess whether this is good enough in the context of the municipal proposition and will review it. In conclusion, I would like to mention that we are pleased that we have a flexible committee leader, so that we put in place the grant to the Landssaman conclusion of the new Norse municipalities, LNK, because that seems to me to be important for creating the identity of new Norse municipalities. I would like to point out that we support the government's proposals in a secondary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2473	Let me begin by commending the representative of a sincere and long-term commitment to the county councils and a recurring emphasis on the role played by county councils in this country. It is an opinion that I share, in general, both to give the regions better opportunities, that the county councils play an important role in facilitating local and regional development, and that it is a targeted effort. We agreed that the county councils and a popular regional level should also play an important role in the future. But when we hear that the Right wants to clear the county councils for tasks – after we have talked about it – when we see what cuts the government is proposing in terms of the instruments the county councils have at their disposal, for example. in relation to broadband, does the representative feel that there is cooperation with the government, or is it such that the government is countering the objectives of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2480	After sitting in the county for eight years and seeing what the county council can do, I'm more concerned with getting a stronger regional level than today's county councils, because these I don't think are strong enough to meet the challenges ahead. With the option that was adopted in the budget agreement, there has been a broadband bet that is better, and that I think is very good. It is absolutely necessary to create opportunities around the country by having broadband, and not least what opportunities this provides. Furthermore, the representative Sivertsen points out whether we are comfortable with the cuts in regional development. That, of course, is not our primary position. We'd probably want this to be a little bit smoother. Anyway, after the years I spent in the county, I know very well that everything has not been as focused on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2489	I thank you for your answer. I share the opinion of the representative that there is a need to strengthen the regional level. Among other things, we have major challenges, which the representative was faced with in his post, related to higher education, non-response and better implementation. I am also pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party has worn the government after the hair and got in place more funds for broadband. I also think you have done a good job of setting up a compensation scheme for the county councils that are most badly affected. But the question is, are you comfortable working against the government every year and beating back things that you initially agreed on the year before? Is such cooperation going to continue in the next two budgetary procedures to be carried out by the Government in the Grand Duchy, with its supporting parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2496	That did not bring me out of the comfort zone, I can tell the representative Sivertsen – as I was in part of these negotiations. That comfort zone is still present. I believe that we have achieved something significant in cooperation with the government parties – the Advance Party and the Right. As the representative was about, about what's the progress here, I think you're going through the grips we're doing now, among other things. with modernisation and efficiency in Norway, looking more closely at what is being done at regional level. Getting more clear growth engines compared to today's level I think will be a clear strength and a good opportunity – also to recruit young people, on which the representative was involved. Creating clusters of skills around the regions, I think, will help create growth – which unfortunately does not reflect in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2503	It has been a wonder and strong reaction that the government cuts the cooperation between County, 4H, the Hage Company, the Forest Company and the Agriculture Company. From 2016, they will be thrown out of the offices of Fylkesmannen. These are not randomly chosen, it is organisations that are important for recruitment to the district industries – something the representative had in his post that he was concerned about. The Central Party shall promote in the budget proposals for the continuation of the current arrangements. I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party have a comment that they support the government's wish to wind up the scheme, while the Left does not signal its view in the matter. In general, they are concerned with the voluntary sector. It should indicate that the Left agrees with the Central Party that the Government’s draft notice should be re-examined. Have I understood correctly, or is it such that the vague signal of the Left is the expression that the rejection can be done with the full support of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2512	I don't know if I want to call it a eviction, which has an implementation in 2016. In an agreement, it's not always that you reach with absolute everything, but regardless of that, we'll probably follow this closely in the future. It may be that there are several solutions – whether they must definitely be with the State. There are enough people who think that there might be close connections with those who have to control and exercise. But there's no doubt, as the representative, Mr. Greni, here, that 4H, the Forest Company, etc. have important functions that need to be taken care of further. We can't understimulate it, we have to stimulate it further. But it is not certain that in the future you need to be in the same office community as the County.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2520	One theme that SV and Left have agreed on is that we need to meet the climate agreement, and we need to strengthen it. The climate agreement states that municipalities play an important role in reducing climate emissions. But in the sector by sector, this government has failed to follow this up. The tasks of the Left and Christian People's Party in the negotiations have been to get a little greenisher back. But in the municipal sector, there's a lot to do, and we see that. When there are storms and major flood and rapid damage, there is an incredibly great need for climate adaptations in the municipalities. Despite that, the government has answered us questions that they have not spent any money on this in the local economy. Therefore, we propose that a separate financing mechanism be established for such local climate action against climate adaptations. Does the Left agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2527	Of course, municipalities have an independent responsibility for making assessments, not least where in the future houses are placed in places where many steps have been taken – not least campwalks. These are of course important things. I believe that what you can do to strengthen environmental competence in municipalities is to do what Andersen's representative is not necessarily 100 pst. agree with me, and it is to have a stronger municipal structure – stronger municipalities. At that time, you have the opportunity to have a much more diverse network of competences, which in turn will improve this, not least on the environmental side. There will also be a greater opportunity to identify where the problems lie, in cooperation with the NVE, but also with other partners. This will be important in the future. Because there is no doubt that you now have a completely different dynamics in relation to the natural disasters you have had in previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2534	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2537	SV is the party that has the strongest investment in municipal economy of all parties. We mean we're going to spend 5 billion. kr more to school, care and climate for next year. We choose to do that because we think that's the most important thing we can do. The municipalities are responsible for the school, for kindergartens, which are among the most important measures for our kids to have a good childhood, but they are also crucial for the business to function here and now, and for getting good workers and creators to work in the future. In the municipal sector, we are responsible for everything that concerns care and care, especially the care of the elderly, but also the care of people with different types of disabilities, and there we know that there are great needs that are not met. We are constantly hearing stories about the elderly who are lonely, about employees who don't have time, and that it's too much work to do for those who have these important jobs. More employees are needed to do many of these important jobs. We also see that it is necessary to strengthen the municipalities that grow a lot. SV is for us to have a growth grant for those municipalities, but we believe that it should be financed outside the framework and not with the benefits of the municipalities that are now struggling with relocation. We believe that income and expenditure should be balanced more fairly, both between people and between municipalities and municipalities. That's why we disagree in the direction that the government points to, that you need to strengthen the strongest, you need to strengthen the richest, and those who have a little less get a little less money, and then they'll probably figure it out and do better. We are, like other parties, for voluntary municipal mergers, but we are greatly surprised that the government will state the municipal tax collection that works perfectly well, and we are warned that it can actually mean lost tax revenue if they solve their task in the same way that the state tax collection does today. There is a need for trust reform in the public sector, both in the state and in the municipality, where employees are allowed to use more of their professionalism to do their job well, both for children and for those in need of care, and also for citizens in general. We are opposed to privatising municipal services, and we want a reform at school that will give children a full-day offer of both food and physical activity, and help them with homework at school. There is a need for a big boost in school health, and it seems that all the batches are busy. But it's been tried before without earring. The nurses' union has examined this now, and it turns out that the money does not go to school health services. It is not possible to trace this money. That's why we have to label this money, so we know that they're going to get where they're going. It's very important for those kids and young people that they get someone to go to when there's something they can't talk to their mother and father or their teacher about. We have put forward a major effort to enable municipalities to take their climate responsibility, so that they can operate climate adaptations. We have put in a big effort against poverty, so that municipalities can help disadvantaged families in a better way than they do today, and in addition to that, we want to compensate for the tax deficit in 2014, so that municipalities do not have to drag it into 2015 and get a very difficult fiscal year. Then there is a need for a big bet on housing. Housing is the most expensive and the most difficult for people who have little pay or poor advice. I'm quite shocked by the cut of 190 million. kr as the government has done in the housing stock. There is no investment there – a decent investment to build enough rental homes or to build enough student housing – but cutting the housing support is very bad. In particular, when we know that other changes, such as: in the social security system, it turns out as unsocial as it does. Then I would like to address the suggestions that SV is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2558	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2563	It seems like SV is happy to be able to present a completely separate state budget, and it also seems that SV is happy to finally get back into the role of the spending party and the public-shell-free-all-task party. So I congratulate the representative on the new life. With regard to all the costs of SV plus the local economy, one would like to boast that a good part of the money is earmarked for strengthening quality, as one says, while saying that there is a need for trust reform in the public sector. On a scale from one to ten, where one is very low and ten is very high, how much confidence does SV believe that their earmarking policy shows that one has to local councillors and elected representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2572	On a scale from one to ten, at least the representative's contribution to one is in terms of having entered the SV's budget, because we actually spend 4 billion. less than the government and the settlement partners do in their budget. This shows that the representative has not at all got involved in what he is talking about. I have a long seagoing period both as a municipal politician and as a state politician, and the problem was not ringing; the problem was that it was too little money. If we say we should bet on the school health service, there should be a bet on the school health service, and then we put that money on the table. We then make visible what the state contributes to such investments, so that the local government sector does not get any money in a large bag, and that money they are told to spend on many different tasks. Those who sit on the council know what it's like. That means that we have confidence that those who sit on the local government can manage a larger part of the social crisis than they can with the right-hand government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2579	We know that many Norwegian municipalities have only two or fewer professional employees in child protection. We know that there are a lot of municipalities – about 100, I think it is – that don't have one psychological position, and I would think, without knowing the numbers, that there are a lot of municipalities that are also struggling to find skills for the school health service, like health sisters, etc. Is SV concerned about building strong and robust environments around Norwegian municipalities that can be attractive to professionals and that can provide quality good services, be it in school health, health stations or other similar services, and that a key in many places will be to ensure that you get stronger community organisations, i.e. larger municipalities, that can help secure the offers to those who need them? Or are you satisfied – and think you can solve this – with today's municipal structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2586	We are very much in favour of professionally strong child protection, and we are also in favour of other highly professionally strong municipal services. We see that as a different solution in the municipal sector. Some of the large municipalities are also struggling very hard to gain skills. So this isn't necessarily solved just because the municipalities are large, but it can also be solved through extensive cooperation with other municipalities. Many people do it, especially in the area of child protection, and I'm very happy that they do it. Nor does SV have any problem with the municipalities wanting to join forces. If they believe that it is necessary and correct and the population agrees, they should receive support from SV for it. We've said that those who want to join forces will neither lose nor win. But it's not always the size it depends on when it comes to prioritizing the important things and having working conditions that make you manage to recruit and keep people. You can only look at Oslo, which is the largest city, which has an incredibly big flaw, for example. to pre-educated pre-school teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2593	I registered that the representative Andersen said it was SV that left the most money on the table to the municipalities. The other partner in the previous government was the Center Party, and Liv Signe Navarsete recently said they had heavy fights to get the frames in place. When one then records that both the Centre Party and SV want to invest more in the municipalities, and since we were told yesterday about how the inner life of the Red-Green government was when it comes to the asylum field, it might be exciting to hear a little about how the inner life was concerned with the community economy. And since SV wanted to wear out most of it and the Center Party, who was holding it back, because the municipalities didn't get that growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2598	For SV, municipalities have always been important, because they are responsible for school, care and for the most important welfare tasks. It is also incredibly important for local democracy. So I haven't realized that there's been any big disagreement about it. The disagreement may have been whether or not one has chosen to invest in the various areas, for example: in school or in health, or whether it has been chosen to be included in a general framework. It was a bit that I rehearsed to the representative Jensen from the Right in connection with ear tagging: it's about SV having confidence that the local government sector can manage a larger part of the community cake in total, but we also want to make what the state contributes, and we want to make sure that the money we put on the table is actually going to the bets we've decided on – now it's the school health service, and it's been the same with the promise in child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2604	It might have been interesting to know a little bit more about the inner life as it was in the last period, as the representative Njåstad took up. But Andersen's representative responded to that. But I want to ask the representative Andersen a little about what she was about in a question to me: environmental competence and not least the issue of child protection. For example, in the area of child protection, we have several intercommunal cooperation arrangements in the Nord-Trøndelag, which include: operates with child protection. There they could not do this, 13 municipalities together – it became too small. The same applies to environmental competence. If one is to have sufficient competence, it requires – as the representative Jensen was inside – that one has strong enough municipalities to attract such a kind of competence. If you do not have that opportunity, then you will not achieve what Andersen really wants – against assumption. Is it not true that we need stronger professional environments that have the same hand that governs them, and not that it does so through inter-communal cooperation schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2613	I don't know where the representative Skkelstad has it from that there can't be strong trade unions in intercommunal cooperation. The experience is that it could be. It is quite right that child protection in many places needs to have a much larger unit than a municipality, because there you are very dependent on not getting too close. It may well be – and we can also discuss it – that it is, for example. should be a county or regional task, because it has a different character. In the case of environmental competence, there is a scheme that was in the municipal sector before and that has been removed. It is not just about having someone who has that environmental competence, but the municipalities and county councils have to have their own money, so that they can both implement climate action in their areas and implement the incredibly expensive measures for climate adaptation, so that the damage to important infrastructure does not become as great as they are today when the storm strikes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2620	The representative Karin Andersen and I agree that we need environmental competence around the country, but as the stand was while this was still in place, there were almost half positions, quarter positions, etc. It's not enough to check out what's the problem in the man-made environmental changes that we have. I then insist that the representative Andersen does not now see the need for a stronger and more professional sector, especially in the environmental sector – because that is exactly what will happen – where many more people have a professional environment that can focus more on this than on quarter positions and half positions, with which the representative Andersen is obviously most comfortable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2625	No, I do not know where the representative Skkelstad takes it from, it must be from completely loose air, that I have proposed quarter positions and half positions – in no way! We have the largest climate and environmental effort in any budget, and that means that we believe that the municipalities themselves need this competence, and that of course we also need to cooperate with others on this. It is true that this requires competence that the municipalities do not have today. But I would also like to say that I was in the local government when these environmental advisers came into the municipalities. It was a great promise, and it has been a great pity that that competence has been removed, so that we have, like, moved back a lot of time to enable the municipalities to have this competence. This competence must also be in the whole technical sector, it must be in the management of the municipality, because if climate work does not become part of the management of the municipality as well, then we will not achieve the climate objectives or meet the climate adaptations that we need to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2633	The Greens are currently not in the municipal and management committee, and despite the impressive efforts of our peoples around the country, it is obvious that the Greens have still not been fully shown what we are good for in municipal policy. This is why the forthcoming elections will be a very important goal for us to achieve a nationwide green breakthrough that will have consequences for policy in many Norwegian municipalities. That's why we have here on the Stortinget presented an alternative budget that tells us which municipal tasks are the most committed to us, and what people can expect if and when the Greens make a good local choice. Firstly, the Environmental Party is the Green Warm Trailer of a living, real local government. The vast majority of those engaged in political work in Norway do so in the context of local policy, and therefore local democracy is crucial to creating a society where the greatest possible capacity and usefulness of engaging in the future of its own and of the community are evident. For this reason, we have provided a budget in which municipalities are secured with an income base that provides room for action and options for local priorities, while providing a framework for predictability of quality of life and good welfare services to the population. The municipal sector will play a crucial role in building the new green economy. Today, oil-related businesses are cornerstones of many local communities, and they will not last. It is therefore important that municipalities and county councils contribute and are able to contribute to the development of new alternatives. The Greens have submitted an alternative budget proposing to start ambitious conversion work in Norwegian municipalities. We give priority to green business through a strong strengthening of the rural community's commitment to regional development. At the same time, we propose to create a new grant to support the work of municipalities on green business development, and we propose to establish new centres for social entrepreneurship in counties and municipalities. This is how we will enable several municipalities to seize opportunities and contribute initial capital when local entrepreneurs rate on forward-looking projects. In the years to come, Norwegian municipalities have to tackle a new and completely decisive, demanding task. Municipalities need to be sustainable, greenhouse gas emissions need to disappear, the loss of biodiversity needs to be halted, and Norway needs to adapt to a future where more and more extreme weather will bring entirely new challenges and costs. A lot of this has to be solved in the municipalities. That is why the Green Party proposes a comprehensive commitment to environmental competence and climate prevention in the municipalities. We will provide the municipalities with knowledge, resources and competence to implement a strong boost in local planning of environmental and climate work, and we will contribute to the capital needed to make the necessary climate adaptations, and to repair the climate damage that we know is coming. These funds have been proposed by us under the auspices of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, but they are relevant to this debate because they will have a major impact on the ability of municipalities to identify and finance measures necessary to limit the costs of tomorrow’s climate change and to avoid new costs in the long term. To sum up, prevention and large investments in long-term conversion are carried out in the Alternative State Budget of the Green Party. In addition to the efforts I have already mentioned, our commitment to the housing sector and to building schools and better integration are other measures that will improve the quality of life for people in Norwegian municipalities. Overall, the Green Party proposes a significant strengthening of the local economy through an increase in the framework transfers to municipalities by 3.85 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2648	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2651	It is tempting to welcome the Greens also to the municipal debate. I asked for a line because it would have been okay for the representative of the Greens – when talking about a green shift in the municipalities – to say something about the tasks you can see that municipalities are going to take on the greatest climate emissions associated with what role municipalities are going to play in the conversion that the representative refers to. That's the one question. The second question is: if we look at the municipal sector as a whole, among other things the Zero Foundation has been out saying that the municipal sector in general should be able to take one third of domestic emissions. Does the representative share that assessment, or is it based on greater or lesser potential for emission reductions in the Norwegian municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2660	Thanks for the important questions. They're pretty close together, and that's obviously why they're put in context. The role of local authorities in the field of climate change is first of all political, that is where people live. In other words, the extent to which people engage or do not engage in climate issues and feel that it is part of their everyday lives will be quite crucial for Norway’s ability to implement climate policies, whether national, international or local. But there is a great deal to be done, as I do, among other things. were involved, both within business, infrastructure, housing, etc. as it is absolutely necessary that it is the municipalities that take hold of it. Municipalities are responsible for a great deal of the infrastructure change and adaptation that needs to be implemented both in order to prevent municipalities from becoming victims of very severe climate damage in the future and in order to contribute to emissions reduction. One third of the national cuts are reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2667	I thank you for your answer. I also recorded that the representative in his post, like several others in this room, was strongly attached to the role of county councils and the regional elected level. I am still curious and need to learn more about the Green Party's policy, so I use the opportunity to ask the same question relating to the county councils. Today, the county councils, as the representative was also involved in their contributions, have a role to play in facilitating business. Some of us believe that this role should be further strengthened in relation to the government's arrangements. It plays a central role in public transport, and it also plays a role as a regional planning authority. Can the representative be more precise and concrete as to the role that county municipalities should take in order to bring about a green transition to Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2672	The representative Sivertsen is not alone in learning about county and municipal policy. I think I'll be in that line a long way. The representative himself mentions some of the responsibilities that we, the Green Party, believe are particularly important that the county level has and further develops. We don't belong to the parties that want to remove that term in Norwegian administration. We see the need for a higher level of coordination between many services at county level and between municipalities, and we are going to work – often together with the Workers' Party – to develop the level of good practice in future developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2680	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to welcome the representative Hansson and the Greens for the first debate in the Municipal Committee. I hear the representative Hansson speak warmly of a living government. Many of what he says there, I fully share. We've seen over the last few years that the state has taken over the vast land area and the land area in the outback, and that they've been wondering when the state has taken over. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has had a project to simplify the management of the land, and the Government Declaration states that a desire is to test models with landowner-controlled management of the protection area. How does the representative Hansson feel that municipalities and landowners should be more closely involved in the management of such areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2687	I do not simply subscribe to a general description of state management of protection areas as a process of weathering. There are plenty of examples of problems related to land and nature management also linked to local government where the overview is not good enough. In principle, the Green Party is fully aware that local governance and local responsibility are a fundamental good thing, but it is a task and a role that must be clearly linked to national shared responsibility. We cannot go from the Green Party to an administrative model that gives municipalities and local level administrative responsibility independent of the national values they manage. But when this can be combined, local models are of course preferable in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2694	I am pleased that the representative Hansson shares the Central Party's wish for more green jobs and more district jobs. The centre party is committed to preserving the green jobs we have in the districts today. The grazing industry represents important green district jobs, both small and southern Sami and northern Sami reindeer industries. They are strongly threatened in soon all states due to the predatory challenge. The same applies to the tourism industry, which is threatened by regrowing due to the predatory problem. What will the representative Hansson do so that we can get more green jobs in these industries, instead of many people having to lay down, and what is the solution for them to get a better working situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2701	I think there are many people in the Norwegian travel industry who will be amazed to hear that predators are responsible for their possible problems. As the representative of Mr Greni is well aware, other things than predators are leading to much greater problems for Norwegian reindeer industries, mainly in West Finland. I think it's a powerful wrong track to make the fight against predators a prerequisite for developing green jobs in Norway. The ratio is the exact opposite. It is to take care of Norwegian nature and to base Norwegian nature on the future development of nutrition that will be the future solution, and then there is also a need for an alliance between those who will develop the green industries and the big society who wants to see a Norway that has taken care of its nature. When we do that and combine it with the large investment that the Greens have in their budgets, I see great interest in the development of green industries in Norway... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2708	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2711	I believe that the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens very much agree that we want stronger national rules that protect the climate and the environment, and that within the scope of the action we may have, we can discuss how it should be managed locally, but that the rules must be strict, I think we agree. But what I have not heard from the Environment Party Greens say is income and expenditure moderation in the municipal sector, because there is a discussion that is very topical now. This government says it will bet on the growth force where it is. They want to redistribute between municipalities and county councils in the same way as they want to distribute between people, namely that those with high incomes will retain more of their incomes, and then there will be less income cushioning for those municipalities that are struggling with income and relocation. It will then be interesting to hear how the representative of the Green Party looks at one of the most important distribution policy issues we have in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2718	Just as the Greens want an income balance in the private sector, at the private tax level, we clearly see the need for income balancing between municipalities as well. If the SV and the Green Party are in complete agreement on how this is to be done and how the funds are to be used, we will have to discuss further. However, there is no doubt that we see the need for incomes to be distributed among municipalities in a way that enables municipalities to meet the basic needs and requirements of people in all municipalities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2723	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2726	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good attitude, and, I would also like to stress, for many interesting contributions from all the parties involved in the Committee's work. The budget under consideration today will give us fresh impetus in the process of renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector. The growth of municipal incomes will contribute to increased schooling knowledge and to better care for our elderly and raise people who are struggling with alcohol or mental health. Increased commitment to maintenance and construction of county roads will, together with other measures, help to create growth and secure jobs throughout the country. The government has an ambitious agenda for renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector. We have set up a programme for better governance and management in the state. Promises and rules are simplified to delight for residents and businesses. The pursuit of time thieves is under way, and with over 1,200 proposals from state agencies, many can expect simplifications and more time to solve important tasks for citizens. A year ago, the government proposed digitising housing support. Now it's digital. It creates a simpler everyday life for many of our inhabitants, and it frees resources, among other things. in the municipalities, which may be used for other important work. The 2015 budget allocates 550 million. kr for new digitalisation and ICT projects in the state, inter alia. speeding up the digitisation of the planning and building process. During 2015, the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation will present new proposals that will both simplify and renew the public sector. Municipalities carry important parts that the welfare of children, young people and the elderly. A good local economy is crucial. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for their good cooperation in the 2015 budget. The budget agreement also helps to strengthen the local economy and important welfare services for our citizens. Together, the bourgeois parties do what we promised the voters before the elections: we strengthen the school, we increase our efforts to lift people who are struggling with addiction and mental health, and we give the municipalities room for important bets. In 2015, total income of municipalities increases by 7.8 billion. kr. It gives municipalities a growth of the size of previous years and a greater space for action than in recent years. Increased room for action does not mean being a local politician makes it easier. The ambitions will probably be greater than the wallet also in 2015, as it was under the red-green rule. I listened with interest to the article of the Workers' Party's faction leader, Helga Pedersen, and I tried to find out to the best of my ability whether there were any shades between the rose-red and the whole black. I didn't hear many. But Helga Pedersen should have it – for a quick reversal from being a positionist to an opposition politician. It is forgotten that workers' party rapporteurs have announced a rapporteur's appeal against the red-green community economy. It is forgotten that local authorities have been notified of cuts in school, care and care, among other things. in 2010. What was previously historical bets under the red-greens, has suddenly become lean bets under the bourgeois parties. I think both opposition and position are about to have a few more shades in the message. The arrangement we put forward for the municipalities for the next year contributes to a room for the municipalities to bet on school, health and dense social security networks, but I know that for the municipal politicians, next year too, there will be a need for priority. I am pleased that we also strengthen regional policy in 2015 through the government's overall policy for better framework conditions for small and large enterprises. The fact that we have found room for strong investment in rural roads helps to facilitate conditions for many districts and regions and facilitate conditions for small and large enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2752	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2755	I realized that the municipal minister brought me a little chat about the color scale here. Then I will show you what he himself has said, including: in the November 24th edition of the Nations: ‘The economic space for the municipalities for the next year will be larger than that of the later years. There is a historical commitment to drug abuse, mental health, school health services in municipalities, kindergartens, teacher refresher training and a special effort in primary schools for the next year.’ Then my question is: why is there so much distance between the municipal minister's use of words about historical bets in municipalities and, among other things, that? Right-wing local politicians report cuts in school, that the follow-up to the county road maintenance will be about like today, and that the bastions of the Right and Advance Party, such as Bergen and Stavanger, increase property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2766	I am dedicated to having a sober presentation of the local economy. Therefore, I have stressed that yes, there is room for municipalities to finance both increased pension costs and demography. In addition, there is a room of recent years that allows municipalities to invest in schools, health and care and in other important priority areas. At the same time, of course, as I have stressed, it is so that the municipalities must give priority. They had to do it under red-green rule, and they have to do it under bourgeois rule. But it is not that it was so pink when the Workers' Party crashed. The rapporteur was notified of red-green municipal economy, and the municipalities announced that they had to cut in both school, health and care. That's why I've allowed myself to ask for some nuances in Helga Pedersen's articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2771	Would the representative, Helga Pedersen, like another line?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2774	Yes, absolutely, President! Under the red-green government too, the municipalities had to give priority, and I have said that on several occasions. But it's a little special that the municipal minister says that he has a sober mention of the municipal structure for the next year and in the next breath it calls the arrangement that the government has presented, for a historic commitment. I don't find that much support around the country or when you read the locals. The KS budget survey shows the opposite of what the Minister of State said. It shows that there is a real decline in school spending to next year. Then my question is, what are the local politicians in the country not aware of when they cut school and increase property taxes while the local government minister talks about historical investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2783	It was also the case in 2010 that the municipalities planned to cut. Four out of ten advisers suggested cutting in the school, and three out of ten advisers planned cutting in care and care. So it's nothing new that the municipal politicians give priority. What I've underlined is that there's going to be a growth in the total income of municipalities to next year at 7.8 billion. kr. The growth is on the level with what it was under red-green rule. That means that it is not possible to say that it was rosy for eight years with red-green rule, and that there has been so suddenly leaning or starvation under bourgeois rule. It doesn't pass the test of history. On the other hand, what I have underlined as a very important effort in the government’s approach is that we are betting on drugs and mental health – and not one year. We did it last year, we make it the next year, and we're going to keep doing it, because we're busy lifting those that labor the most. We do that both through state intervention and by facilitating that municipalities can invest more in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2790	This year, a notice came from the ESA Court that converted the employer’s fee for 31 municipalities. It created joy in some of the municipalities because they had problems with moving away and other things. Then this was to be compensated, and then the municipalities feel that there have been moves in the municipal framework. Others experience that the statesmen have drawn in the frames of discretion. My question is about this different treatment: will the Council of State ensure that the statesmen do some kind of non-discrimination, so that the municipalities do not receive this varied and slightly unpredictable treatment that they have received, perhaps by instructing the statesmen? I don't know, but I want to get an answer to that. And do we get a case on that in the community proposition or in revised if there have to be any changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2795	First, let me stress that the practices we are following now are the same practices as the red-green ones followed in 2004 and 2007. Differentiated employers’ fees are a powerful tool to facilitate business life in District Norway, but they are not intended as a means of strengthening municipal employment. That is why a reduction in the employer’s fee for municipalities also means that it is withdrawn from the framework grant. But then it is right, as the representative points out, that the county officials have also compensated in relation to the differentiated employer's fee. It amended the red-green guidelines for 2013 and 2014 and we have amended it further for 2015. This means that the county councillors can use discretion to ensure that the municipalities that need support are given it as well. I've registered the committee's comment, and we're going to follow it up in an appropriate way. Of course, the municipal minister follows the majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2804	Government parties send quite ambiguous signals regarding the coercive element of the municipal reform. Head of the Committee Mr. Njåstad started his speech on the reform of the municipality, and he was very clear that it is the local government that will decide for itself. The Council of State was visiting Rogaland for some time ago and was referred in the media to the fact that on the Jären it was completely out of date with coercion, and justified that coercion often led to ten years of war afterwards. For those who are now in the middle of the municipal merger investigation, it would have been very interesting to hear if coercion has now been cancelled, or the so-called threat of ‘compulsory coercion’, the new word that emerged during the treatment of the municipal reform. Is it now the local government itself to take decisions? Should decisions be respected? Or is it only in Rogaland that they should be respected?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2816	I take it as a sign that the Senterpartiet is satisfied with the budget for 2015, since questions are now being asked about the municipal reform. But let me just say very briefly that we base volunteering and good local processes. Then we're dealing with the majority that was in the message part of the municipal proposition, which was also part of the Workers' Party, when it came to the emphasis on volunteering, and in what situations magnification and government could intersect. We're dealing with the majority that's in the Storting, and that majority is completely in line with both my view and that of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2821	The next line is from Karin Andersen – no, it was Trine Skei Grande. The president's sorry. He's in the middle of an exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2824	It's an important line, President, for now I'm going to have a line on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left, and I know that the Council of State can enough math to realize that it's important! The Council of State has decided that some organisations should no longer have offices in the State. It hasn't been agreed by the Left and Christian People's Party, but we think it might be in the upper end of the big business to decide who should sit in which offices. But that's a reason why 4H and the others have had office space there. It's because they've had some public tasks, some tasks on behalf of the state that they're going to do. That is why they have received this compensation as the office premises have been. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State now take the time this spring to have a dialogue with these organizations to see how to compensate for the job they actually do for the public, and the job they do, when they don't get office space? If the government doesn't have a very good answer to that, there's a risk that we'll come back under review.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2834	Let me first say a thousand thanks to the Left and Christian People's Party for a very good cooperation on the budget and a very good solution. I share the view of the representative Skei Grande that these organisations are doing a very important job. They do an important job for their members, and they do an important job for children and young people across the country. Then it's true that we've come to the conclusion that it's not neat that they have office space at County. There is also a question of safety. That's why we have now given organisations a good transition period to move out, until the summer of 2016. Of course, on the basis of the signal from the Christian People's Party and the Left, responsible government councils will contact the organisations and go through and see what tasks they have done for the public, and then assess compensation in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2843	SV disagrees with the government in that direction and the value choices the government takes, for example. too little money for the common well-being we have in school and care. Today, the OECD is giving the SV the right. The OECD is reporting today that increasing income disparities are not only socially unfair but hampering growth. The organisation says that economic inequality has reduced economic growth in Norway by 9 pst. That SV seems to be very serious. That's why we've made a scheme where we spend less money than the government, giving tax credits to those who make little, tax increases to those who make a lot of money. And we have e.g. 5 B.C.E. more to key areas such as school and health, which ensure good soaking, and allow all people to take advantage of their potential. Does the OECD Council consider that errors are being made?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2848	It's interesting if SV thinks that the OECD is always right. I think we can get a lot from the OECD, both the SV and the Right. We are concerned with a society of small differences, but the question is, how do we ensure little differences in our society? What is the basis for the greatest differences in Norwegian society today and will it be in the future? We believe that, among other things: related to the fact that many fall from high school — a lot of drop-outs. It's that a lot of people get dissatisfaction when they're too young, where they might be in work. It's that too many people are struggling with alcohol and mental health. I think that if we're going to keep a society of small differences, we have to go to work and make sure that we lift those who are struggling at school, that we help those who are struggling with alcohol and mental health, and that we help more of those who are outside the labour market, into working life. I think that will be the most important way to continue to ensure small differences in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2855	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2858	I understand that today's theme is color shades, possibly a lack of shades. I agree that there is quite a great tension between pink and black, but we can at least state that there is a difference between a red-green municipality and a blue municipality layout. What's crucial here is not related to the percentage of growth you have, but what municipal structure you set up based on the economic situation you're actually in, the expectations you have for next year, and the unsolved problems you're facing. Here, there's a fundamental disagreement about what level we're going to be at in the municipalities. We clearly believe that we should be at a higher level than the government is doing. Norway is a port. Our sea area is approx. six times the land area. The sea has been very central in the history of Norway, has been crucial for our well-being, it is today and will also be in the future. It offers many opportunities and has a great potential, both through non-renewable resources and through eternal resources. Earlier in the fall, I had the joy of visiting a business in Sortland called Calanus, in the Western Sea. They have taken over the opportunities that lie in the sea, and to the extent that the political leaders as well. Let me briefly describe this company: it has 12 employees and approx. 15 to 20 years' work linked to subcontractors. It is owned by employees and local investors. Not only do they develop new products, they aim to develop an entirely new industry, a red-eating industry, which is described as Norway’s largest renewable and harvestable marine resource. They produce a product that has quite a market potential: Omega 3 oil and what is called a third generation Omega 3 oil. This company not only covers a small part, it covers the whole value chain – from harvesting, product development, production, approval and for sale. They have competence in marine ecology, as well as in assistive technology and biotechnology. How was this possible in the Vesterål? The foundation, of course, is primarily competence, both academic competence linked to the universities of Tromsø and Bodø and the competence of surrounding companies and public institutions. It's a farm company, Food Agency and oil preparedness companies. Other factors of success are the regional instrument: assistance from Innovation Norway, the Norwegian Research Council, the SkattenFUNN scheme, regional development funds, Siva and differentiated employer fees. In the further work, the company stresses that they are fully dependent on good dialogue and support from both local and regional authorities in order to obtain the appropriate framework conditions for further development. There was no relief in the property tax or the possibility for the county to borrow more money to build new county roads that were essential to the success of this company. In the Workers' Party, we've been concerned that people actually have a real freedom to live where they want to. For us, it has been important to ensure equivalent living conditions and to use resources throughout the country. The company I have told you about today is an example of it, a forward-looking enterprise, because people live mainly where they get a job. We have been committed to continuing the rural policy promise. We have been, and are, committed to strengthening local and regional growth in areas with low economic growth, in regions with a long distance from larger markets and in regions with a one-sided industrial structure. At that time, it is important to ensure the dissemination of skills across the country. If we are to have an open economy with socially sensitive actors and an active public engagement, we must also follow up with funds. That is what we have chosen to do in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget. We proposed an alternative budget of 1.1 billion. kr to a country-wide innovation and growth package. We have chosen to have an industrial policy in which public authorities play an important role as part of the Norwegian model, which has a clear direction, and which is for the whole country, it is not neutral. We set out in our alternative budget to implement both marine industries, travel, agriculture, environmental and climate technologies and much more. The main effort of the government is still huge tax cuts with no demonstrable effect and the possibility for county councils to borrow even more money to build roads. The difference between our active business policy and our right-hand side, blue business neutrality, has never been clearer. Let me finish by taking up the suggestions behind the Workers' Party, and the ones we're together with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2877	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2880	When I listen to the debate today, I almost want to say that for the municipalities 2014 must have been a liberating year to go into – and not least it will be a new and exciting year also in 2015. It's almost like it's a paradigm shift, from being busy with only money to looking at content, organizational structure and the future. It will be an expression that we have a government that has the ability to take political leadership, to make things visible with leadership, to want something with Norway, and to equip the Norwegian society for the future. The municipalities are about to go in and get a new one, and I see people elected, councillors – there are dangling a bit in some troubled rapporteur chains out there – that all of us are now committed to looking at how to equip Municipality Norway for the future, providing more services, better services and quality of those services, in the sense of home care, nursing homes, school and everything that matters to people in everyday life. Then I'm very happy that the government also has the ability to have thoughts about digitizing and using new technology – not for the sake of digitisation and new technology, but for those who work for those who receive services to experience that it's becoming a simpler everyday life, a easier everyday life, that you can easily access a part of the services, and not least that you can save and add resources to tasks that are more central to people's everyday lives. I'm glad that the government's ability to look at structure, system, target the efforts within it to simplify, debureaucratise and ensure that not only the thought, the word, but also the action is what's in focus. It's in the meeting with our welfare system, with the Norwegian community, that we, as politicians, we as society, are up for the exam. Building society from below, adding power and authority to the main level of government, bringing it back to the municipality, has been the leader in the work of the government. The municipal structure itself, drawing the map, is not the goal, but the idea of looking at the problems, whether they can be resolved better and differently, whether they can be moved down to the municipalities to vitalise popular democracy at the most important level, to make sure that we have a democratic reform, where power and authority and tasks are solved where they can best be solved. I also see that it is not that rapporteurs, elected representatives, now just lean back and say: show us what tasks we can get! They say that they and those problems we are able to take, and we require them to get, given that we are now able to become both robust enough and big enough to handle the problems. Then we are beginning to succeed in getting content into the word democracy reform and developing society from below. Simplifying, renewing and improving the public sector has been the head of government's work, and therefore I'm very happy that making things easier for people the most is what the Right Party government is now talking about when they want to improve the public sector to equip us for the future. It is about making better use of Community funds and ensuring that the resources available to us in all areas can be better used and that they go to the services that Norwegian society needs most: school, health, transport. In this way, we also arm Norway for the future, for the benefit of everyone living here. We are engaged in a community reform to ensure that citizens receive better services. We strengthen the work of management and governance in the state. The government implements digitisation measures and has also undertaken a large-scale effort to reduce time thieves throughout the administration. Reducing and erasing time thieves is also about making the public sector meeting easier for citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2897	A good community economy is crucial for the development of our country and for its citizens to have the services they require. We in the Progress Party are therefore well pleased with the budgetary agreement that the government parties made together with the Left and Christian People's Party. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your cooperation. The 2015 budgetary unity between our four parties makes it possible for municipalities to improve and strengthen their welfare services for citizens, as well as to cover increased pension and population development costs. It is also important that the budget ensures that local democracy in Norway is able to make choices and priorities based on local conditions. The budget agreement also provides for this by providing a significant and real growth in the total income of municipalities of 7.8 billion. SEK, of which SEK 4,7 billion. kr is free income. The 2015 budget thus contributes to a real growth rate of 1.5 pst., which is at the level of growth in recent years. However, the real space for action for municipalities is larger than it has been in recent years, as demographic costs are estimated to be lower. As a result, the 2015 budget helps to enable municipalities to improve the quality of health, elderly and care services and to continue their efforts to close gaps in the social security network. The budget will ensure more knowledge in the school. Within the framework of the free incomes, there is room for efforts to strengthen health centres and school health services, to strengthen mental health services and the follow-up of drug addicts in municipalities, and to facilitate more flexible childcare admissions and lower childcare rates for families with poor finances. The 2015 budget thus ensures the most important and basic services for people, and within a secure and responsible framework. But we do not conceal that despite a good municipal structure for the next year, municipalities still have to give priority to what are the most important tasks, and make difficult choices, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2910	The Labour Party wants Norway to be a country with small differences and great opportunities. That's why we say no to the government's non-social tax code. For us, welfare is more important to people than tax cuts to those who have the most. Our ambition is to build the country. Then we need an offensive housing policy. Several dwellings need to be built to meet population growth. The House Bank is one of our main policy tools in housing policy. It is therefore quite incomprehensible that the government is once again maintaining the cut in the bank’s loan framework. The Labour Party proposes that we make greater use of our big cities. That's why we're proposing 1 billion. .......... more.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We want a change of pace in housing policy. Unfortunately, we have a government with lower ambitions, which does not have the ability to take the big and necessary steps at the right time. In the election campaign, the right-hand side claimed that we did not have to choose between tax cuts and welfare. I think a lot of people believed in the Right when they said we could afford both. Now we see the true face of the right: the biggest single effort in the budget is more for those who have the most, and at the same time the municipalities of the country must cut off their welfare offer. The Labour Party has greater ambitions than the government on behalf of Norwegian municipalities. We want early schooling and increased work against apostasy, we want more kindergartens filled with good quality, and we want a worthy old age for our elderly, with security and good care. That is why we are strengthening the local economy strongly. The debate on local economics can quickly become a technical and complicated debate, where percentages of heads are put on top of each other and begin to discuss what has happened in the last ten years. The question is whether we are using the unique space of action we now have to strengthen well-being locally, or whether we are giving priority to it the space of action to do something completely different. Unfortunately, we have a government that prioritises tax cuts, and now we see that it leads to welfare cuts in the municipalities. Every day we read about municipalities that have to do painful cuts. In Halden, 120 employees in the health and care sector lose their jobs. In Ålesund, the councillor suggests cutting across the line to avoid a gigantic deficit. In Alta, it is now assessed to introduce more double rooms and cut jobs in hospitals because of the need for community economics. In Stavanger, the bourgeois must increase the property tax, and in Bergen, where they celebrated with champagne and fireworks when the property tax was removed, the right side must now bite the sour apple and reintroduce the tax. They probably don't because they want to, but because they have to puka. It's time for the seriousness to start sinking into the right-hand side. 65 pst. by its rapporteurs and advisers, the economic space in 2015 is getting worse than this year, and on Friday KS presented its 2015 budget survey. The heading of the KS website is: ‘The communities are forced into service cuts and increased property taxes’. Studies show, inter alia: expenditure growth in schools is lower than the wage and price growth. What does that mean? Well, that means that in many municipalities it's cut to school -- in violation of the parties on the right hand side holds knowledge. I would like to commend the government’s efforts on the teachers – that is the cross-political agreement in this room – but if we are to succeed in giving all students the same opportunities to develop their potential, we have to give enough money to the municipalities. To the NRK, Helge Eide said in the KS December 5th: ‘Some municipalities say that this is nearing the limit of what they consider to be sound.’ The government has left the responsibility for painful cuts in the well-being of its local government members. It was cut in school. It's not rusting Norway for the future. The Workers' Party would therefore rather strengthen the municipal economy by 3.4 billion. kr. In addition, we will compensate for the tax failure. We don't want to sit still and watch the populace around the country do painful cuts that go out on most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2937	We are in a very exciting time in the municipal sector. There will be a lot of reforms, and it's important to change over and over in many public institutions. Much of this is just happening in the Municipal and Administrative Committee. It is very gratifying to see that this government has a strong focus on strengthening local democracy. It applies in all areas. The government platform includes: local involvement is important in the management of natural resources. It is important to put in place an environmental and land management system that relies much more on local self-government and respect for property law. In the state budget, the government is proposing to increase the real growth in the total income of municipalities and county municipalities by 6.2 billion. SEK 4,4 billion. kr is increased in free income. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Cooperation Party, the local economy is strengthened even more. This means that the growth of free income is in line with the average over the period 2008–2013. It confirms the government's commitment to the municipal sector. When it relates to the county economy, it has been a major focus on the loss compensation of the county municipalities that are the poorest in the new income system. The government's budget proposal saw 125 million. kr for distribution between the county councils that lose the most. In addition, the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the cooperation parties increased by 60 million. NOK so that for 2015 loss compensation will be collected EUR 185 million. kr. For my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, that means this county gets a total of 53.9 million. kr in loss compensation for 2015. In my view, it will provide the state politicians in Sogn and Fjordane with a good basis to get a good budget for our county for the coming year. For the future, it also means that the annual loss compensation has now reached 185 million. kr. The majority of the Committee points out that the changes in the income system for county municipalities are gradually phased in over five years and that increased loss compensation is not used to postpone the necessary adjustments to the new income framework. It is worth noting that the opposition party proposes: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the income system of the county municipalities remains unchanged in 2015 and that the government facilitates a good process, with consultations and consultations with the county councils before proposing changes to the income system, is promoted in the municipality proposal for 2016.’ In spite of this, the red-green parties notify a new income system for the county councils each year in the last years of government. One would think they had enough information to make a decision many years ago. This is nothing but training and disclaimer. The government will equip Norway for the future. by renewing regional policy. The most important measure to create economic development and growth in the districts is to invest in road construction and other infrastructure. I am proud of the formidable efforts made on the county roads that are being set up in this state budget, and there is also much more to be missed in the budget presented. The government will increase the permissions of state roads by 225 million. kr, so that the pot has now passed 1 billion. kr. In addition, the counties receive 272 million. kr for tunnel securing, and the interest compensation scheme is increased from 2 billion. NOK 3 billion. kr. This is very positive. The government is now also adding a new sector key for boat and ferry in the municipality's 2016 proposal. The new supply of ferries shows that costs have increased considerably, and some of this may be due to authority requirements. The government has also warned that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, will return to the Stortinget with a ferry settlement system for the county roads. This will be a very important measure for the development of the road network in the districts. All of this is a formidable commitment to county relations, which will greatly delight both the inhabitants and the business community. When you look at this at the top of a strong bet on highways and road maintenance provided by the government, it is at your best to bet on traffic and road construction that will help to arm our country for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2968	We are discussing a draft budget that is full of cuts for the public sector. The government, with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has decided to take a so-called flat cut in government operations of 0.6 pst. The working party does not object to the public sector being more efficient and improved in its work for the community. The working party is strong for an efficient and well-functioning public sector. What we're asking questions about is the lack of priorities from the majority with this cut. It seems like a lightweight solution. The challenge is left to each department or enterprise instead of taking responsibility and pointing out the areas that are thought to be best tolerated. We're just going to assume that these cuts are taken in such a way that it doesn't go beyond the provision of services to the population. Effective and innovative use of ICT in all areas of the public sector is important, and we support it. However, we need to ensure that ICT solutions do not place the legal certainty of the individual. The Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority are important tools for ensuring legal certainty and privacy for citizens. The working party also notes that the government and the supporting parties introduce so-called neutral VAT. This approach now appears only as part of a strategy to further privatise State and public services. The Labour Party does not support this, and we believe that it will be at the expense of employees' pay and working conditions, including pension entitlements. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have presented a setting that in practice contains a number of cuts in a number of areas. This must be done to ensure that the main intervention in the State budget — a major act of great tax cuts to the richest in Norway. This main approach in the budget is not so happy to discuss, and it seems a little strange that the main approach to such a budget itself is not what the majority wants to raise. The Sami purpose and the Sameting will not escape these cuts either. I think it appears as both small and little thoughtful when you cut in, for example. industrial development in Sami areas, while the government parties mention the economic development of the Sami regions as important. There appears to be little and little thought when the government parties talk about Sami languages and the possibilities of using and developing Sami languages in very positive order, while at the same time proposing to implement cuts in the funds to be used for this very purpose. We see a widespread use of double communication by the government – they say one thing, but in practice they do something quite different. The same applies to the consultation system of the government with the Sametinget. They refer to the consultation system in rosy order, but when it comes to execution, it is seen that it fails, even though we note that the Progress Party is now involved in comments in the vote on the common policy, which they stood quite far from from from the years of opposition. We have other priorities in setting up the state budget, which is why we also have the opportunity to increase the framework for the Sameting by over 21 million. kr. Culture gets 10 million. kr more for Sami purposes, we reverse cut in Sami newspapers, and we can also propose a start-up grant to Saemien Sijte of 20 million. kr – in addition to the government’s proposals. This will make it possible to improve business development, Sami language and Sami culture, which are important. It is a pity that the scope of action that Norway’s economy currently has has ended up in a proposal where the community has to pay large tax credits to the few, and where in this setting we have to focus in many areas on small cuts on a number of items that are very important for the groups concerned. There are many signals from many municipalities, as has been mentioned here earlier in the debate, that would suggest that priority should be given to the local economy more strongly. That's not what the majority wants. It means cut in many good municipal services, to the benefit of a private tax party for the richest in the country. It is a poor distribution policy, and it does not promise and does not help to solve the major common tasks we face in care and school, as two examples. I'm afraid that when we stand here and hear the government parties talk about simplifying and improving the public sector, it ends up with real cuts in public budgets and increased privatisation of public services, for the benefit of private wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e2997	I am actually sitting in my office preparing for Thursday's debate here in the Chamber, when we are going to deal with the chapters of the Church, Education and Research Committee in the State Budget. But in many ways, the debate that is going on in the room now is just as important to me as it is to me as a teacher and as a school politician, because it is the municipalities that are school owners, and most of what is going to happen in school, depending on what happens to be the result of voting after this debate. Can the municipality of x hire more teachers when the reading results in the middle stage show that this is absolutely necessary? Can the municipality y employ an environmental worker in high school when you know you have a school with extra high bullying rates? Do local politicians have room for action to reduce the processing time in the PP service? And where was it from the strengthening of the health care service, which the national politicians promised last year and this year again? These questions show the breadth of school in the municipal world. In addition to child protection, cultural schools and SFOs, the picture becomes even clearer. In these days we have budgetary procedures here in the United Kingdom, but there are also budgetary procedures at approximately. 430 elsewhere. As mentioned earlier, the KS recently presented a study on which the budgets of the municipalities have gone into the seams. There was no merry reading. Unfortunately, the study shows that students often become balancing posts in comparison with the other welfare tasks in municipalities. The head of the Education Association, Ragnhild Lied, had one thing to say about the KS budget study: ‘This is a sad Christmas gift to Norwegian students and teachers’. A few weeks ago, I met 80 teachers at Stortingen's teacher's course. The course ended with a school policy debate, a debate with many good intentions, but the clearest message from the teachers to us politicians in retrospect was: we hear what you are saying, but we do not believe it entirely, because this year the councillor in my municipality has suggested that we should cut so and so many teaching positions. When the government in the fall launched its recipe for a better school, the Teacher Lift, expectations were great. But I must say I was disappointed. It was only about student credits and character requirements, nothing about what they asked teachers for – more time to support students. This was followed up in the State budget. It is good that we are all committed to what we all agree on – continuing training – but more is needed. Here I want to give tribute to the Left and Christian People's Party, who moved the poor school budget from the government a few small steps towards what is the actual view of the majority of the population. The Workers' Party has proposed an increase in the apprenticeship allowance, earmarking funds for the health care services, setting up municipal preparedness teams against bullying in all municipalities, measures for daily physical activity at school, 100 million. kr for new equipment for professional study programmes and 200 million. kr to early effort to ensure that our children learn to read, write and calculate early. The Workers' Party will realize with these measures the wise school and the wise student, but there is one trump card that surpasses all individual measures, and it is a strengthened municipal economy. When tax revenue is lower than budgeted and the expectations of municipal tasks are increasing, yes, it becomes a gap – a gap that the government has not taken seriously. Despite the fact that they have more money to spend than ever, and the ability to prioritize billions in tax cuts, it is therefore not possible to prioritize the necessary measures for the municipalities. The working party will use the action space of the Norwegian economy differently and therefore proposes to increase the income of the municipalities by approx. 3.4 B.C.E. kr in addition to the government originally proposed. It's money for care, care, kindergarten and school. I want to finish with the head of the Federation's own words: ‘Rights were educated as one of their fantasies in the election campaign last year. – Norwegian teachers and students are sadly not aware of this in school everyday life. The gap between national promises and municipal reality is growing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3024	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3027	The municipalities around Norway have their budget meetings in these days. Many of them are now preparing huge cuts in their budgets, and unfortunately there are no major changes in the budget that the government has presented and that we have ahead of us today, which will improve the situation for them. The Right Party and the Progressive Party clearly show that they are tax-casing for those who have the most, rather than strengthening the welfare of most people. This will not least mark my home country, Northernland, very well. As you know, it's one of the states that is coming out badly with government policy. The situation is probably to notice something better for 2015, thanks to the comparison with the Christian People's Party and the Left. But even after an increase of 60 million. kr in order to compensate the municipalities that did not get well with the new cost keys, Nordland is still poor, and it is not at all uncertain for the years 2016 to 2019 for which they are currently sitting and budgeting. In addition, when tax failure is not compensated for in 2014, there will be major challenges for municipalities, and if tax failure does not change, the challenges can be equally high in 2015. We read in the newspaper daily that this will lead to schoolcuts all over the country, yes, not just schoolcuts; it's about well-being, which goes on all the important tasks. Before the weekend, we debated the transport budget. A historic commitment was made to the budget for transport, and although the majority did not support the Workers' Party, which in its budget had 1 billion. kr more, it became a good budget. But then it is that a large part of the transport offer is to the county municipalities. They are responsible for the county roads, the boat offer, the ferry offer and the bus offer. Here we see today that you hit your chest and say that there is a stake in the counties also within this budget. Is that so? An example from my home country, Nordland, concerns the interest compensation scheme. In 2014, they received EUR 18 million. NOK to cover this scheme. In 2017, they'll have 17 million. kr. I don't want to say it's a bet. We know that big cuts are planned in my home state. With regard to ferry and boat traffic, it is estimated that the operating costs will increase by about 350 million. kr. This comes at the top of the reduced transfers of over 300 million. kr. That means it has to be cut between 5 and 15 pst. on a ferry connection, you might have to cut the entire connection, and it will go beyond the calls. It'll also go down the road. Therefore, as the Labour Party proposed, the introduction of the new cost keys should be postponed, so 3.4 billion should be given. kr more to the municipalities, as proposed by the Workers' Party, and therefore there should be compensation for the lack of tax access for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3044	The government's budget proposal is probably the most obvious Right Budget that any government has presented in modern times in Norway. It is a budget that very clearly points towards a development of our social structure where the idea of equality is no longer to be the authoritative idea, where the centralization trend is to speed up, district policy is a foreword, where local democracy is back to Jern-Erna's well-being days of cutting in the field by field within health, school and care for the elderly. Municipal and county economics are too many away. But when you see that this has the means to maintain further schooling, to maintain and start investing in the county roads, to culture for the elderly, to kindergartens and schools and health services to do – yes, it actually makes sense for each of us in everyday life. It means something to you and me, for the growing-up conditions, for children and grandchildren, and for whether grandma gets a worthy and good old age. I want to base my government's proposal on what county municipalities will have to route forward. Sogn and Fjordane came out the worst of all, and by cutting everything in road maintenance and investment, laying down four further schools and halving the number of districts, one third of the cut will be taken. By many from the Right and the Progress Party, even from the Ministerial level in fact, it is said that the county knew about this. To that, there's only one thing to say: What the county budgeted for was heavenly from the numbers that were provided. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has proposed even increasing the borrowing in the last year's budgetary procedure, and how can anyone who is close to wanting to appear responsible suggest increasing borrowing in such a situation — if they knew? The argument has been distorted by what services a county should provide to its inhabitants, and by the fact that they should have known and understood that they have already received unfair amounts. This is a derailment. I was in Årdal yesterday, visiting a continuing school there. It's one of the schools that was proposed to lay down when the county had taken one third of its government's proposed cuts. Does the Right and Advance Party think it's okay for the students to run two hours each way to go to the nearest advanced school? What happens to a community where the youth is on a school bus for so long, perhaps moving away on a hybel? The football team, the handball team, the symmetry group – yes, they disappeared. Societal confusion is unaccompanied by youth in that age group. Is it to maintain continuing schools that are unfair, or is it that the government introduces a new cost-key system without understanding the consequences, which is unfair? Was this a law in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3061	Putting political proposals on a color scale is an exciting exercise. In the state budget that has been put forward, I think we can establish that there are the people with billions who have been able to pick up the gold color. But in order for people without billions to experience the more colorful part of the scale, it is the municipal economy that is crucial. The Family and Culture Committee is responsible for several tasks that depend on just a good local economy. Child protection and kindergartens are about good rearing conditions for young people, about safe young children’s parents, about equality and inclusion. All children and families with young children deserve the security of a nursery when they need it. Because we choose people with billions and large tax cuts, there is room to take new steps in kindergarten policy. In our alternative state budget, there is room for 5,600 new kindergartens. We step up with two recordings a year and propose 1 November as a date to get the right place. It gives young children’s parents predictability when they can count on a nursery place being there. The right hand and the front-hand side have been impatient in the opposition after putting in place continuous babysitting. In the government budget for next year, the Solberg government proposes 800 new sites or at the base of two per municipality. So people with billions of trumped the kids who needed babysitting. Trade power is used in tax cuts, not in kindergartens, just like in the additional budget last year. Fortunately, the government's proposal improved after the Christian People's Party and Left negotiated several places, but the Right and Advance Party have lost all credibility about freedom of choice and continuous admission from their time in opposition. Over the last few weeks, we've seen a shocking look at children who've been neglected. Good child protection is essential in order to avoid this in the future. We are pleased that the funds for earmarked positions in the municipalities are being continued, but we note that there is no funding for the municipal child protection in the government's proposal. It's in municipal child protection we can prevent and prevent that we get look-ups like the ones we've seen in the last few weeks. Then it is sad to note that the municipal children’s protection and kindergartens had to bring out the gray thousand when the eel was to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3076	Regional development is infinitely much more than innovation in Norway and municipal industry funds. In Norway, most of the value creation takes place along a coastline cut up by fjords and mountains. The construction and maintenance of transport infrastructure is therefore essential for increased value creation and further growth in Norwegian business. Regional development is also improving the standard of the county road network around the country. On 1 January 2010, Norwegian county municipalities received a gift from the State, which was received with controlled enthusiasm. Tens of thousands of kilometres by road in partially poor condition, with associated tunnels, ferry connections and bridges, were transferred to the counties. In Møre and Romsdal, the State Road Administration has calculated that the maintenance maintenance run that the county took over from the state can be numerically fixed to approx. 5.6 B.C.E. kr. It goes without saying that the state is unable to reduce, not to say away, such a aftermath without a sharp increase in the state transfers for transport purposes. It is therefore gratifying to note that the government will later have understood the seriousness of the situation with regard to the challenges facing the states in this area. The fourth year's bet on county roads is escalated by 200 million. kr. At the same time, we're getting a boost in the interest-rate compensation scheme by 1 billion. kr, from 2 bn. NOK 3 billion. kr annually. In addition, 272 million are transferred to the counties. kr to enhance tunnel safety. All of this is a good and affordable grip that alerts the government of Solberg to more than the previous government to see the importance of the county road network as an extension of the large transport corridors to which the value creation takes place. There is a very long way to go to a situation where the states are able to stop and reduce the aftermath. Nevertheless, we see a good start in the proposed state budget for 2015, and we naturally give our full support to the increased focus on the county road network as part of regional development. Nevertheless, it is with astonishment that this year too, the government continues its last year's practice of cutting regional development funds. It might almost seem like giving with one hand and taking with the other. While the means of maintaining and repairing the county road network are increasing, transfers to regional development are falling sharply. This was particularly noticeable last year, when the government cut entry 60 in the cap. 551 from SEK 1.6 billion kr to at the base of SEK 1,2 billion. kr. When we see this year that the decline continues, albeit on a much smaller scale, this is something we in the Christian People's Party regard as worrying. The Christian People's Party therefore proposed, in its alternative state budget, to increase the allocation of the county municipalities to regional development, by 150 million. kr. Unfortunately, we have to record that we did not reach this point in the budget negotiations. However, we would like to say how pleased we are that we received an extra compensation of 60 million. kr each year for the next five years to the coastal regions that were the worst in the new distribution model for state transfers. This gives the states concerned greater scope for action, including as actors in regional development.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3093	Today we are adopting a budget that corrects a great skepticism, an injustice that has been going on for many years, and that could have been solved for the longest time. A few years ago, I said that the government of Stoltenberg does not want Rogaland well. The background for this was the unfortunate outbursts of the state's tax equalisation combined with the distortions of the state's income system. The current distribution key was created at the end of the 1990s using data from the early 1990s. Society has evolved and changed a bit at this time. The government announces that some of the distortions should be corrected and that Rogaland should be given a better income profile. We have waited a long time for this, and I am glad that the Right has taken up the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and that our cooperation parties are on a new course. Transfers to Rogaland are gradually increased by 180 million. kr per year. Next year, the amount is 54 million. kr. It's money that comes well into a state of growth. The county faces major investments in environmentally friendly public transport – the only sustainable solution. At the moment, the county council has gathered in Haugesund to adopt a new toll solution which means that the top fare in the rush time is 40 kroner per pass. This illustrates that the county has become used to settling itself. But students in Rogaland are no less valuable, drivers have the same right to roads, and Rogaland's transportation solutions are no cheaper to build than transportation solutions in other counties. Why should they get less money per capita? But this is now fixing the government up in. Many think of Rogaland as a rich state, and that is enough, although the prospects for the oil industry may seem somewhat worse right now. But with the county municipality, it's a little bit of a different story. 90 pst. the balancing of tax revenue does not involve the operator responsible for infrastructure construction and public transport in the fluctuation of the economy. At the same time, the income model in question has turned very poorly on the county. With this in mind, I find it alarming that the Workers' Party does not support this conversion. They should care more about Rogaland as an important growth engine for the whole country. I do not expect the Central Party to care about correcting the imbalances affecting growth in Norway, but that the representatives of the Workers' Party will once again postpone this transformation, shows that they are not concerned about putting Rogaland in a better position to meet the challenges and growth problems of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3104	This government has a strong focus on strengthening local democracy, and the government platform determines that local involvement is important in the management of natural resources. They have seen several successful actions that have already produced good results. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has written letters to the county officials on the use of countersigns and it has significantly reduced the number of over-tests. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has also created a project for the simplification of the management of the land. This was presented last week, and after a hearing period, this comes as a matter for Stortinget. The aim of this project is for users to experience significant simplification of administration and processing, and for municipalities to be given greater responsibility and authority within the field management. In addition, there is also an important wording in the Government Declaration that the government will have attempts to use landowner-controlled management of the protection area. This is a concrete example in Valdres, where several landowners have wanted to try out a model with landowner-controlled management, which they have called the Fullsenn model. I visited these landowners at several times in the previous period, when there were plans to expand along Langsua National Park and take from these landowners the right to dispose of their property, including their property. a large steel area which was important for primary industries, well-being and recreation. In recent decades, large areas and values have been transferred from local authorities and landowners to state authorities. This is a violation of a long tradition in which local communities and individuals themselves have taken care of their territory and values. We have experienced that this process leads to conflict and a kind of crisis of trust between many communities and founders on one side and central authorities on the other. Many places also see that when the State assumes responsibility for protection areas previously managed by landowners, the landowners will be able to withdraw and the landowners will be able to start their retirement. There is no light on, neither landowners nor nature values. Environmental and land management must build on local self-government and respect for property law to a far greater extent. The relationship between use and protection of nature is important. In most cases, active business is the same as defence-related natural management, and the concerns of individuals and communities need to be addressed better. We have a lot of exciting reforms going on, and this is one of those that can really strengthen both local democracy and basic ownership rights. There is good reason to look at different models of land management and protection and to have a critical review of the role of the State in this administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3127	Of course, growing municipalities will benefit over time from more money in the form of increased tax revenues because they become more inhabitants. But to do this, they have to have the necessary infrastructure in place. These municipalities must invest in, inter alia: several schools, kindergartens, hospitals, roads, water and sewerage systems, and they need to use resources to facilitate living and working space so that as many of the new inhabitants as possible can be employed in their new municipality. Expenditure on the construction of new schools is one of the pressures that makes strong growth cost. In Ullensaker municipality, the growth has been between 3 and 4.5 pst., which in this municipality means 200 to 240 new students enter the school each year. This means that one new school and one large nursery must be in place every year. The municipality of Sandnes has an annual growth of about 2,000 inhabitants, leading to large expenditures on kindergarten, school and care, and the municipality of Sandnes is planning investment for 3.7 billion. kr in the following years. Rennesø Municipality has grown by over 25 pst. since 2008 and face the same challenges. In these three municipalities, we have the rapporteur from the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Party, and I note that these rapporteurs have all been in the media and are pleased that the new government is not depriving growth municipalities. The evening paper could even inform us that the working party rapporteur in Sandnes' jubilee most of all. Sandnes may be the municipality, not only in Rogaland, but throughout Norway, which has the largest growth, and for several years Sandnes has received 0 kroner from the red-green government, because the growth has not been large enough in percent. Next year, politicians will be able to over 46 million. kr more. The new majority of population value growth municipalities and increase the grant from 60 million. NOK 400 million. kr. We now have a government that is concerned that it is precisely the municipalities that have the greatest impact on citizens and the greatest need for investment, that are to be compensated through the system. It has been unreasonable for municipalities that take on these tasks of contributing to the continued growth of regions to feel that the job they are doing is a burden. This is a job that should be premiered and that is now being premiered. This government also provides an increase of 4.7 billion. kr in the free income of the municipalities, which contributes to the raising of a loved one for the local economy. I note, however, that most of the red-green deposit representatives in this room have taken the representative Helga Pedersen seriously when she asked earlier this year for help to swear the government. Because here in the hall, they do everything in their power to create the impression that this government is strangling the local economy. Then it is good to read in the paper that not everyone is in the sword campaign, but that there are actually rapporteurs from the red-green parties who are cheering over the change of pace that came with a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3146	I'm also cheering, I was going to say! I get a little soft when I go up to this pulpit, and I actually wanted others to be there. It's like I was the spokesperson of a Right Commune when the Red-Green Government crashed. When I hear the debate here today, I'm left with the impression that there aren't many of the red-green people who know what it's like to be a spokesperson in a municipality with a red-green government. Creating a municipal budget has been a demanding task for many years. The red-green government, with underfunded psychiatry escalation plans and underfunded interaction reform, was not easy with reforms that are very demanding even with today's municipal structure and municipal boundaries. As driving growth municipalities, there was always arrears in financing the service provision. Publicised and underfunded reforms made this very demanding. I am excited that the government has now taken responsibility and has seen the municipal map on the agenda and started a municipal reform. Eighty p.m. the population of Norway supports a change in the municipal map. But I'm a little surprised when I read the comments of the Labour Party in the budget setting. We can read, for example: that they comment on a statement in Hardanger Folkeblad on November 12 about Lars Sponheim, County of Hordaland. I think it's strange that the Labour Party places emphasis on a locality's report and interpretations over decisions made here in this room and in the government. Otherwise, I have been to a municipal government meeting and heard County Governor Lars Sponheim’s talk of ‘the voluntary train’. I thought it was very good and nothing to fear at all. It is about starting good local processes, where municipalities look at the quality of welfare provision and the ability to handle it in the future. The municipal structure selection has delivered its recommendations, and it is clear that municipalities need to grow and become more robust to meet both today’s tasks and future challenges. Looking at previous reforms, I see that the Storting is largely under pressure in its reforms, whether it is in the area of psychiatry, cooperation reform or other reforms. Then there's not much talk about volunteering. So I'm a little surprised that the Labour Party will not use the same possibility in the municipal reform once they have given the Municipality-Noreg tasks as one needs larger municipalities to cope with. I think it is very, very strange that so many tasks are transferred to the municipalities without one being willing to sit down so that we get the necessary municipal size to handle these tasks in a good way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3163	Many of the claims that have been spread about the coming poverty in the municipalities because of the government's budget are mildly exaggerated, and can actually bear the mark of being produced before the budget was presented. The hard facts about the budget are that the budget agreement represents a real growth in total revenue of 7.8 billion. kr. Of the growth, 4.7 billion. kr free income, corresponding to 1,5 pst., which is at the level of growth in recent years. The fact is that the Right–Fremskritsparti-regierung ensures the municipalities more money than the red-green did in 2012. Then the growth was 3,750 billion. kr. The real space for action is also larger than it has been in recent years because demographic costs are estimated to be lower. The municipal structure in 2015 enables municipalities to ensure more knowledge of the school and to improve the quality of the health and care sector. Stavanger municipality, for example, gets 15 million. kr extra in 2015 as a result of the budgetary agreement, while Karmøy receives 3.6 million. kr extra, and the Sun gets over 3 million. Extra kroner. Within the framework of the free income, there is a commitment at health and school health services, mental health services and the follow-up of drug addicts in municipalities. A more flexible nursery reception and lower nursery prices are provided for families with poor finances. The commitment to knowledge and research is a clear priority in the State budget. Only in 2015 will the government further educate 5,050 teachers, which is a strong knowledge gap for the Norwegian school. The number of teachers who receive further education has almost tripled compared to what was under the previous government. That's 75 million. kr for upgrading university buildings. Money is allocated to build 2,000 new student homes – much more than what was built under the red-green. There's a historically high bet on county roads, 200 million. NOK 272 million. kr to enhance tunnel safety. As a result of a new funding system, Rogaland is growing at 3.5 pst. After five years, the change will give Rogaland an increase of 180 million. kr. The population in the county can get a lot of good services for that. The Government shall be commended for having put in place a long-term renewed system of funding for the counties. Ingredient injustices in the income system have been removed. The working party is against the new income system. In other words, Rogaland had got a big cut instead of an increase, and the unfair system that the Workers' Party will not change had to continue, despite the fact that the Workers' Party has about. 10 B.C.E. kr more to be used after reversing the government's tax laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3181	The debate is so close as expected. The attacks we've been given, we knew, we've responded to them before, and it's no longer true if it's repeated several times today that the arrangement for next year is lean. There are still levels of previous years – even how many times you say it is not. I thought I'd comment on a few articles that have been in the debate. The representative, Karin Andersen, told the Environment Party’s representative, the Greens, that income averaging is a burning issue. So I don't want to say that she is, this isn't something that's mentioned in the proposition, or that's going to change to next year. Income dithering is something you're looking at in the big conversion in 2017. What I'm responding to more of what SV is talking about is child protection and whether it should be attached to an IKS or not. For me, it's important that child protection is close to other municipal services, such as school, kindergarten, doctor and health centre, so that you can see the whole picture to help children. Then there's a big point whether child protection is attached to an IKS, which is peripheral to normal operation, or whether it's tight. Should a help child be co-operation key. I found SV to be more useful in supporting the community reform, where one suggests a wider professional environment and that child protection can be an integral part of the municipality’s service provision. So the Central Party said a lot about the growth community, and that it was taken from the other municipalities. This is done exactly the same way as the other separate additions are distributed. But when it comes to the municipality of growth, it's important to have a dimension, that the municipalities get the income based on a census date, 1 July of the year before. The population has moved to the municipalities of growth and expects services from one day to the next. This is one of the reasons why we have strengthened the municipality of growth – precisely in order to provide the municipalities with money faster than the income system as it is now. The representative Stine Renate Håheim had a long tiger about the number of municipalities that had problems. What I can say is that these problems do not come from the government budget for next year, they must have arisen before, and they are not new. For Bergen and Stavanger, which were mentioned in particular, many of the problems will arise precisely from the fact that the red-green government took away the corporate tax from municipalities, gave more emphasis to frames, less emphasis on taxes, and got more equalization. It is not possible in this room to create this into a problem for individual municipalities when you yourself have been responsible for introducing a system that has placed the municipalities in the situation in which they came.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3194	I have followed today's debate with interest while following the work that is now being done locally and regionally in the whole country in terms of planning cuts in the 2015 cultural budgets. The paradox is that it is to be built or prevented, integrated and included, innovative or exhibited creative thinking, culture as a territory and subject is central to the whole country. Cultural life is alpha and omega for a community, for a village or for a big city. The good places of meeting are central to the development of a cultural life and the survival of a local community. But now we've got a government that wants to downgrade these vitamin injections. All the experience suggests that when municipalities have to tighten up their service provision, the cultural budget is affected. We know that. In the richest country in the world, we have a government that no longer wants the state to organize good and professional art and cultural experiences where people live or travel – where everyday life lives. Then, of course, I think of the cultural walking stick that now, in whole or in part, is moving on with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left. Of course, I'm thinking about the cultural school bag, which is now taken from the one singer, film, or 3 million. kr. And I'm talking about the cut to the music equipment system that brings music money out to municipalities that bring rock guitars and music equipment to town halls where young people want to play. In our quest for increased quality of life and in the pursuit of good communities, it is important to take into account the importance of culture for people’s lives – and to value the work done out in Municipality-Norway rather than cutting off the amazing cultural work that is going on. I have to comment on the representative Sveinung Stensland. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2015, Rogaland County would have 47 million. kr more than the government is presenting today. Only the municipalities of Sandnes, Stavanger and Haugesund alone would have had over 8 million. kr more with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. Right should be right, especially in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3207	I did not intend to speak, but since I have received several visitors in the debate, I think it is right to say a little. One can only conclude that today's Right-Registration, with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the load, has been given multiple numbers for a budget that provides the basis for cuts and cuts in many municipalities and counties. When the representative Bjørn Lødemel from the Right earlier in the debate claims that the state politicians have been given a good basis for making the 2015 budget, he is far from experiencing the reality of his meeting in Sogn and Fjordne today, which is the theme of cuts and cuts. I saw on the NRK's homepage that one would cut – and the bookboat Epos has gone 50 years in the county. There's only one good million, but the money doesn't exist. It's cut. There is no way you can get the pain you should have done, because the money doesn't exist. It's cut. You don't get the bet on further education that you should have done, because it's cut. That's what's happening to the county council in Sogn and Fjordane, but it seems that the representative Lødemel is very nice. It is bad craftsmanship to present a matter that is so poorly worked through from the government as the cost keys to the county councils. The same representative also claims that in my time as Minister of State, I trained the proposal to change the cost keys of the county councils. It's wrong, of course. But I refused to put forward a case that did not have an objective criterion for all the major sectors. On the other hand, today's government has presented cost keys that are a sales mix of policies and subjects. There have been very unfortunate consequences, not least for Sogn and Fjordane. It's not to be believed that a people's power from the same state can defend such a thing. It is also claimed in the debate that the system that draws the citizen’s contribution to individual municipalities that receive a reduced employer’s fee is a system from the red-green era. It is also not possible to recognize. But the frame of discretion was, of course, reduced. And not enough with these claims: In the direction of the statesmen on discretionary means, the part of the guidelines that applied to differentiated employer fees was not up-to-date. As a result, some municipalities have had double moves. One has had both moves in the frame of discretion, and one has had a move in the citizen's proposal for the individual municipality. Or was it the government's intention that these municipalities should be able to move in both the community's advantage and moves in the discretionary frame? In that case, there is good reason to ask if it was not as good for the municipalities who said no to the reduced employer's fee. It was really so bad that one came out. When a right-wing representative hears from this pulpit, one should believe that only the municipalities of growth need funds for renewal and development. But the whole country needs these funds. What's a shame today is that we've got a government that only sees the largest municipalities, the largest cities, and the richest inhabitants of the largest houses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3222	The previous talk was about some interesting tracks. I have to say that I miss a bit of a perspective from the representative of Navarsete, seeing the possibilities of regional power and what lies in the regional structure, as in many ways today's county councils have expired on date. The chairman of the committee, Njåstad, was in the process of revision. If there's something that really needs revision, it's today's county structure, just to help create growth in the regions. The left is very concerned about it, and has also been involved and contributed greatly to the creation of a loss compensation scheme, which caters not least to Sogn and Fjordane, Nordland, Nord-Trøndelag, Hedmark and Troms. It's important to get involved in this. At the same time, we need to stimulate growth, which makes you settle. The model that has been running for so long now is only involved in a relocation, which does not allow for growth in those areas. And if we don't get growth, the kids won't find this interesting either. I am surprised that the Central Party is unable to see in this debate. Then we can always discuss whether there is any fine machine that could have been done differently, but it is definitely so that today's cost key, which was adopted last year, had been in the drawer of the previous municipal minister for quite a long time. It was pretty much just clicking on the button to start it. Then I'm surprised that from the same party you're so crystal clear that this should have been seen on another round, when those who did this, maybe they should have spent time on it. For the exceptions, which both the Left and the Christian People's Party have achieved for now with an extended loss compensation scheme, I believe is very good. There are, of course, some interesting aspects about this with the construction of public jobs around the districts. It seems left to have clicked in the period that comes. I have a little lack of that attitude on the part of the Central Party, that they are the one who cheers on and will contribute. Maybe there's some point in that one might have waited something with speed, but I think it's necessary now to start making bigger and stronger regions, which are causing growth and not least that the young people feel that there are opportunities ahead, and that you don't just look back.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3233	I would first like to say that it is commendable to listen to colleagues from the other parties talk about both people and billions. But what I've noticed is that the only opposition that's talking about today is billions – and actually billions to everyone and not prioritized. This government is betting on people, and it also shows this budget. By 2030 we will be more than 6 million inhabitants in Norway. This will put enormous pressure on the housing market. That's something we've been aware of all these years, yet there's been a huge fall in housing. One of the big powers that needs to be taken is to build a lot more and build a lot faster. In Norway, we have a strong tradition of owning our own housing. But when we're talking about people -- that's what's in focus -- let's also talk about people who are outside the housing market and feel that the threshold for getting in is high. This is often due to a combination of the market situation and the situation in the private economy itself. It is a public task to pursue a social housing policy for those who have the most difficulty. Our most important job is to be present for those who need it the most. This is precisely why the government presented its own strategy for social housing policy in the past, and we can see several traces of the work presented in the budget. I am pleased that the government is proposing to increase the maximum ceiling for housing aid by NOK 1 000 and to increase the aid to recipients with the highest budget charges. Furthermore, it makes sense to increase the threshold of revenue for reporting obligations and back-testing by NOK 45000 in the period from 1 January 2015 to 1 July 2016. This will prevent beneficiaries of disability benefits from losing the right to housing support when they receive increased taxable income as a result of the underprivileged reform. Furthermore, it is now possible for housing beneficiaries in private dwellings to be covered up to 70 p.m., while beneficiaries of housing aid in municipal dwellings are covered up to 80 p.m. This is discrimination, and it prevents beneficiaries from moving to private homes. That is why I am very pleased with the proposal that housing aid for municipal and private housing should now be streamlined and harmonised over a two-year period. It is not unlikely that the Norwegian interest rate will increase in the coming financial year. In that case, it is even more important to ensure that housing aid continues to be targeted at beneficiaries in need of public support in order to provide or maintain a suitable housing. The proposal to increase the need to test housing against wealth will contribute to a more targeted use of housing for beneficiaries of economic challenges. Finally, too many people have been outside the housing market for too long. This government is now adding to increased housing construction and not least to a more social housing policy, which has been demanded by all people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3250	The Christian People's Party supports the attempt to coordinate all state objections. The counties shall ensure the quality of their national interests. It is therefore necessary to strike a good balance between State requirements for supervision and own-initiative initiatives based on local knowledge. The municipal sector can carry out greater self-control before state supervision, which I hope will be the focus of the local government reform. The county officials have also assumed responsibility for defence. This should be strengthened in order to safeguard the interests of those under protection. The Christian People's Party looks forward to feedback on how this work of the county council is now in terms of the balances, duration of treatment, capacity and training of the tenants. Increasing digitisation in the municipal sector is now opening up to simplification. It will help to save both residents and businesses for time and costs. The establishment of digital mailboxes is an exciting development, with applications, enquiries, etc. may enter, as may the supply of tenders in public tenders. Good computer systems shall ensure privacy and maintain the fundamental right to privacy. The storage of personal data shall not be governed solely by what is appropriate from a public point of view. The earlier data protection is put on the agenda, the easier it is to ensure privacy. The Christian People's Party believes that electronic systems must be so stable and user-friendly that citizens have confidence in the arrangements and trust in basic value as a requirement for them to use electronic communications. The Christian People's Party wants the institutional frameworks laid down for common policies to be further developed. We congratulate the Assembly on its 25th anniversary. The Christian People's Party will maintain the consultation system and will want it to be improved in dialogue with the Sameting. Sami languages and Sami institutions provide enhanced Sami identity. The Christian People's Party has helped to increase the appropriations for Sami purposes through the Sameting by 2 million. kr. We look forward to a public body explaining how schemes and measures in the Sami better ensure good public services. We are looking forward to the realisation of the museum building for Saemien Sijte, and the next project being Sami national scene. So a special thing: The situation of women's languages is serious, and a larger international research report, ELDIA, concludes that women's is one of Europe's most threatened languages. The Council of Europe recommends the development of an action programme for the revitalisation of the language, and the Christian People's Party recommends that the Council of State and the Government consider this matter more closely. The Christian People's Party has promoted its own budget, but during the vote we will support the budget we have developed in conjunction with the government, which for us has been a strengthening of our policies, where we have developed important nuclear issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3265	Psychiatric disorders are one of the biggest health and social challenges in Norway. Towards half of the population, mental health problems develop during life, and there is a need for qualified help. Between 15 and 20 pst. In Norway, children and young people have reduced their function due to mental health problems. The World Health Organisation estimates that mental disorders will be the main cause of disease stress in Western countries in 2020. The mental health escalation plan lasted for 10 years and ended in 2008, and ear-marked funds then entered the municipality. During the escalation plan, there was a significant escalation in the provision of services in municipalities, but the evaluation of the escalation plan still showed no real need for community services in the field of mental health. The Health Directorate has pointed out that the municipalities now need to strengthen the low-threshold provision of the population, recruit more psychologists, include the definition of more in the multidisciplinary mental health work and ensure better professional quality of interventions. It is now six years since the completion of the escalation plan. The centre party has followed developments in the municipal sector closely in this area these years. According to the SINTEF report in the autumn of 2013, the annual effort in municipal mental health work is strongly linked to the escalation plan, but it has not been growing in municipalities in this area since 2007. At the same time, when developments in the specialist services are moving towards shorter daily stays, strong increases in outpatient treatment and more outpatient activities, this means that patients are more quickly discharged from hospitals, without the municipalities using more annual work for community mental health work. The centre party is deeply concerned about the government’s lack of willingness to invest in mental health work in municipalities. It is very serious that the reduction of daily places in mental health protection takes place without local authorities building up the corresponding supply. This affects patients. The government's promises that mental health work in municipalities will be strengthened are far from mandatory. The Central Party has proposed a five-year municipal mental health escalation plan. In the Central Party's alternative state budget, we're prioritizing 400 million. kr with ear-marked funds for such a municipal escalation plan in 2015. In addition to that, we're proposing 200 million. kr more for the scholastic services than the government proposed. At the same time, we propose a halt to the building of daily places in psychiatry, at least until the provision of the municipalities is strengthened by a new escalation plan. Unfortunately, we note that the government and the cooperation party will have a rapprochement plan when it comes to drugs, but we are voting against proposals for a new escalation plan for mental health in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3278	I will address a small matter in the big debate, but a serious little matter. The representative of Navarsete was in there. Individual municipalities have received double features as a result of the differentiated employer’s fee scheme, which has also been commented on from the various positions in the adjustment. They have had both a bearing on the income framework and a pull on the discretionary funds. I would like to take a look at an example from a municipality in my county. The number of municipalities has first been subtracted by 11 million. kr in the frame, and then subtracted 11 million. kr in the assets of the State, i.e. minus 22 million. kr. They've got back about three million. kr in discretionary funds. Everyone understands that in a small municipality this is very unreasonable. Yes, it's completely impossible to imagine the consequences of such a way of managing the local government's economy. It is quite obvious that the government and the municipal minister, Jan Tore Sanner, must take responsibility for the situation. No one else can take responsibility based on what is now the case. The vote has been corrected, and the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Njåstad, together with a local representative of Telemark, has gone high in Telemarksavias, and said that we have now settled, the County has to pay. But the problem is that the county doesn't have money. Then my question is: The guarantees that Njåstad gave to Telemarksavias and that they have gone out and flagged high, are they guaranteed by layers? Will there be a scheme for those municipalities where there have been double features in the conversion of the employer’s fee, or will they not do anything? Is he playing budget, or is he dealing with real numbers and real people living in these municipalities? It would be very good to clarify this during the debate. If this is the way he guarantees it, I find it strange that they cannot vote in favour of a proposal promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party saying that the Stortinget asks the government to ensure that the new municipalities that have received a lower employer's fee do not suffer loss of income as a result. Because it has to be for believers, what is said in this room, what is written in committee comments, and what is spoken to the media. So far it's very far from the committee position and to the reality out there. This must be cleared up in the course of this debate, in the light of what is at stake in this matter. I expect that it will be cleaned up and that both committee chairman Njåstad and municipal minister Sanner will comment on the fact that there have been double moves that have not been compensated, unfortunately. It's about people, 13 000 in that way for Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3293	It has been interesting to follow the budgetary procedure in municipalities and counties around the country in the autumn. It has also been interesting to hear the debate. What's a review theme in many of the articles I've read is that there's a lot of welfare notices in the whole country. Both in school, care for the elderly, health care, child protection and kindergarten, and in the field of transportation, with which I work for the day to day, notices are given. Several counties lose on the conversion of the income system. For my county, Northernland, it means dramatic cut. This means that boat routes in a long coastal area can no longer be operated, which means that there is an increase in the price of both ferries and buses in the future, and that means quite a large cut in the school offer in the long county of Nordland. I know that the Minister of State is aware of that, because the Council of Economic Affairs, from the same party, in Northern Ireland, has made it clear what the situation is. It is warned that much of what is to be thought about in terms of regional policy should be county roads. But how will a county council that is borrowed up to the pipe, as many are, be able to fully exploit the interest compensation scheme? There is no free lunch, so the Center Party is proposing money on the table directly to the county roads and adding 400 million. kr in our alternative budget for that. There is a warning that regional policy needs to be modernised. So far we've just seen cut. What, then, is modernisation? Another theme that concerns me, and which is talked about with a lot of positive words from Storting's pulpit, is digitization. It's fine, but when far from everyone has a sufficient offer today, it's quite strange that you cut in the post that's going to help you build better broadband solutions across the country. Now it's right – I'm positive that the Christian People's Party and the Left were able to add more funds to the post, but it's far from what we see is, if you want to have the ambitions for digitisation that I record that the government has. Fine words aren't enough. It's hot talking about arming us for the future, but so far I've just seen that it means centralization and tax cuts to those who have the most from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3313	I thought I heard wrong, but I heard that the representative Navarsete said that she refused to do anything about the income system for county councils because she had not received enough criteria. That's what I call abdicating from the first line of leadership in a government. Here we know that the county income system has been over-mature for a long time, and so you are in government and not doing anything about it, but let it just slide – with the consequence that we are now getting a government that actually cleans up, which ensures that the criteria for the income system in the county municipalities are gradually regulated so that it is proportionate to the population you are serving. If you don't like the criteria of an income system when you sit as a government councillor – as a municipal minister – who else in the world would do anything about it than just the one who's in a position to do something about it? Let me also take a visit to the representative Håheim of the Workers' Party, who mentions a number of Norwegian cities that are now running and cutting welfare services. And she mentions Halden in my state. If the Workers' Party has now gone away from feeding, I would like to know. In Halden, the Right, together with cooperation parties, took over the municipal management in 2011. Gradually, one 10 million deficit emerged after another, until well over 100 million. kr i minus that nobody knew about. Cleaned up, I call what you do. That this leads to the need to focus on nutrition and adjust public activities, I call political leadership. It has failed for several rounds over several periods in Halden, which I know very well. It hurts. The starting point for today's municipal management is that the statutory services in schools, health, etc. to be fulfilled, but that does not mean that one can abandon political leadership, look at the organisation, structure, manning, competence and rational operation of the municipality. It's the community's funds, and let me not talk more about millions, because this is about the services that the citizens are going to have, and that they are going to have with certainty, even next year. It should not be that it comes as the Christmas evening on the crumble of a new political leadership, which I hope will be the same when the election campaign is over in 2015. I am very pleased with a completely different thing, and it is that the government is changing the guidelines on how to outsource state activities – I know that very many are concerned about – and that it not only becomes as the Center Party wants, that it should go to the small districts like ‘both roads and peoples’, but that it should also be possible to add them to cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3323	I will start by addressing the proposals from the Workers' Party, and I will also report that we not only support proposal No. 30, from SV, but the proposals No. 26 to 29 in addition. And if we don't get a majority for our own proposal no. 21, we will subsidize proposal No. 23, from the Senterpartiet and SV, which is about the municipal tax collection. Just as a line to the previous speaker: Of course, the Workers' Party believes that municipalities should set bread by industry. But from the post of the representative, Schou, you can almost get the impression that the municipalities have been wasting the money they got at their disposal in the last few years. There may be some municipalities, but that is not the general impression at all. On the contrary, most municipalities are incredibly good at housekeeping with the money and get good results with the frames they have. The history of municipalities in recent times are also stories about municipalities that have been able to solve ever-new tasks. Then the debate has shown that the government parties and the opposition fundamentally disagree on road choices and priorities. The Right Party and the Advance Party prioritise tax cuts for the richest. The Labour Party and the other opposition parties give priority to local economy in order to invest in schools, care, health and kindergartens and to equip Norway for the future. Then I have noticed that there is not only disagreement about priorities and road choices, but also about the description of reality, for the Right and Advance Party in fact insists that next year's budget is a historical investment in school and transport in the municipalities, while one municipality after another and one county municipality after another reports cuts, and in the same areas as the Right and Advance Party say it's going to be more of a go to next year. The rejection of the opposition by the Minister of Municipal Affairs with characteristics suggests, first and foremost, that he is beginning to be free of arguments. I'm not surprised. But it's surprising that a government council in a minority government is so little listening to the signals coming from Municipality-Norway, from employee organisations and a group like the parental committee for basic training, to mention someone. I also think it is a pity that so far we have not been told whether it is the attitude of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left towards the income base of the DA municipalities that is valid for the next year, or whether it is the municipal minister's view that this is at all a problem. The municipal minister will be given the opportunity to correct the impression of a low-responsive state council by explaining what he has done with the majority of Stortinge's willingness to reform its competence in the municipal sector, where the majority of the population supported the Workers' Party in the context of our municipal proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3334	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3337	I can inform the representative Trellevik that some of us know very well what it was like to be rapporteur under the red-green regime, and I can assure the representative Trellevik that some of us know what it was like to be rapporteur under the municipal minister Erna Solberg as well. There was no party – there wasn't even a party at the poor house that time. We experienced with Jern-Erna at the municipality that Municipality-Norway was getting poorer and the private wealth increased. Then we got a tax return in 2005 when we got a new government. The marked municipality rules over the country. Now it's flashback. Municipality-Norway notes that it has become blue-blue government, municipal minister Sanner continues where Jern-Erna had to escape in 2005. Today's municipal governments and rapporteurs experience the same thing we as rapporteurs experienced in 2003–2005 – we did. The cut proposals flourished, and there was little money to bet on business development, school and care. It was cut that was true when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister, it is cut that applies when Jan Tore Sanner is the municipal minister. Is it random? No, that's not it. These are political priorities. There is a difference between the red-green municipality economy and the blue-blue government community economy. Under this government, private wealth is given priority over money to municipalities, just as we experienced before 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3342	It is possible that it is late in the debate, but the rain magic is not behind anything, nor in the Workers' Party. The representative, Lauvås, is a good example of this. It is possible to be a representative of the Workers' Party in order to note the following: what is a greater growth in the local economy next year than it has been in recent years, both in percentage and in crowns, is then suddenly a budget cut. When we actually increase the appropriations in relation to what the red-green stood for, then it's a cut budget, while the red-green stood for it, it was additions. Then it was golden times. Nobody recognizes that description of reality, nor Norwegian rapporteurs and local authorities. It is known that priority has been given, and that there have been changes and improvements in efficiency in Norwegian municipalities also under the red-green. We've referred to the KS councillor's survey earlier today, which shows that there are about the same challenges in snoring next year's budget as you had in the last few years under the red-green. The point is that I don't think the Labour Party's attempt to do this to a grant contest has something special to do. However, it is true that more than one person has been concerned with priorities in the policy area. Then it is that the Workers' Party criticises us for wanting lower taxes to strengthen the growth power of Norwegian business. The Labour Party argues in the property tax case as if it were a principle for the Workers' Party to grant tax rebates to owners of farms as long as they live in Cyprus, and not live in Frøya. Then it's an ok thing. Or if you own a yard industry in Norway and live in London instead of on Sunnmøre, it is almost a principle for the Workers' Party that you should receive lower taxes – only you can live abroad if you are a Norwegian business owner. No one in the Workers' Party has been able to explain to me why it is a good idea, and how it helps to strengthen Norwegian business and the business we need around the country, in order to secure income for our welfare systems. Bergen and Stavanger have also been present in the debate today. Under the red-green government, the proportion of company tax that went to Norwegian municipalities was removed, and it hit Bergen and Stavanger. The proportion of municipal income derived from taxes has been reduced. It has also hit Bergen and Stavanger hard. Can the Workers' Party tell me how many millions of dollars Bergen and Stavanger lost on those changes? Because it is obvious that the Workers' Party is walking around with a bad conscience. And if that's how you think that policy was wrong, you might as well say it and admit that it should be long until the next time the Workers' Party allows the Department of Municipal and Modernization to be governed by the Center Party and their attitudes towards the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3351	The representative, Lauvås, told us that he has our spokesmen under several municipal ministers. I have that, too, and I have to honestly admit that I don't notice that it was Erna Solberg or any of the red-green ones. But I'm recording that my successor in Austevoll notices a big difference at Jan Tore Sanner, because when she looks up the budget for next year, there's money left over. Now the municipality is not a municipality that has growth municipalization, it is simply because all municipalities get more. So unless you've given priority to other people, there's money left to do good priorities. The representative Terje Aasland moved up to the great heights when it comes to what I have said about a matter. Had he been present throughout the debate, he would have recorded that it has been mentioned and debated earlier today. Nor is it the case, as the representative Helga Pedersen says, that the four bourgeois parties have different views. Here is a plural note from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that says that the statesmen should handle this in a more flexible way. If one had listened to, the minister said he would follow up that plural remark, so there is no need for clarification, it has already been done by the minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3358	Ingesd Schou described the Central Party's district policy in such a way that the Center Party would move jobs to municipalities that were without both people and road. I think that's a very good description of the government's view of District Norway. I hope Schou can give an example of what municipalities she is looking for, which municipalities it is that we have moved state jobs to that have neither people nor road. If we are to follow the government parties' policies until 2017, there will at least be more municipalities without people. It's at least added up to it. There has been a very predictable debate, in which the government parties have failed to mention that they give priority to tax relief over the municipalities. Growth is at the same level as before, they say. Yeah, but that doesn't mean it's as easy to get a budget together. If you go in by 2.1 billion. NOK, or maybe 3 billion. kr, in tax losses from this year, it is considerably harder to take them than it is to keep the tax increase that has been received in the previous years. I sometimes wonder if there are anyone from the government parties who has been reading local and regional newspapers lately. It is impossible to open a newspaper — at least in Trøndelag — without seeing anyone who has serious problems getting involved in the municipal budget, dismissals in the school sector, redundancies in the care sector, etc. We've been accused that we're not for the municipal growth grant. That's not true, the centre party is going to vote to introduce the growth municipality grant. But we don't want to do that at the expense of the municipalities that don't have population growth, we want to do it on top, so compensate for that sum and increase the frame. The left was within this with the relocation of state workplaces and was concerned about progress. To that it is said that the Left would have had a considerably greater impact on its Document 8 proposal on the relocation of 1000 jobs if they had voted for it even in the Chamber here in June. Freedom is a concept that has been a lot of progress here today. Greater autonomy for local politicians in larger municipalities is said, but they do not mention that KS in Denmark was very clear that central government became much stronger when it became larger and fewer municipalities. Regional development funds have had no effect. In fact, the centralization, i.e. the commuting of cities, was well stopped under the red-green government, but the population growth of foreign immigration has been in the cities. Therefore, the population growth in cities is greater than it is in the district municipalities, but all municipalities have increased. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Senterpartiet has taken the call from SV seriously to see again on proposal No. 30, from SV, and is going to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3373	It was the representative Mudasar Kapur who made me speak. We in the Workers' Party fully agree that we need to build more dwellings. At nrk.no today, new housing statistics have been presented saying that we may need as much as 37 000 new dwellings, but we are heading towards 25 000 new dwellings. Kristin Skogen Lund says to the NRK that the risk of a housing bubble increases unless the housing building shoots speed. It underscores the need to make some major grips. Therefore, I find it very strange that during the period we are now in, the House Bank weakens. It was a clear signal from the consultation of the Municipal and Administrative Committee that the Husbank had to be strengthened. It also follows the Working Party up. It's also strange that you just find to set 70 million. to urban environmental agreements, which are intended to ensure that housing and transport are provided in the context. The Workers' Party proposes 1 billion. kr more than the government. Then it's fine with a housing social strategy. We in the Workers' Party seem to be quite good in many ways – some of the basis was probably also laid under the Red-Green Government – but it is clear that a strategy of action and appropriations must be followed. I have to admit that I am deeply concerned when we hear that more and more people are falling out of the housing support system, and some of the reason for this is that a small increase in social security or income makes you just fall right out of the system. For this reason, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the SV, has made proposals that the government should come back to the revision with proposals that the income limits should be adjusted in line with the general increases in wages and salaries and social security. That's the way we make sure that those who need the housing support will get it in the future as well. Then I cannot, with my best will, realize that it is very social for tenants in municipal housing to get less housing support – because that is what the government is putting up with. At the same time, the Housing Bank's housing social skills grant was cut. This grant is intended to enable municipalities to carry out social housing work. The Leaser Association now reports that they fear their operating grant. The Labour Party considers it important that strong organisations also represent the tenants. We have reversed the cut. Then we also see that there is proposed cut in the grant for the adaptation of the dwelling. People who end up in accidents or get sick, and who need community help to organize the dwelling, are now being cut off by this government. This happens at the same time as the government wants to weaken the requirements for access to the dwellings. This is all but a social housing policy. I had expected, when the government presents an offensive strategy, that it is also followed up with appropriations, measures and new, fresh money. Unfortunately, we now see many petty cuts. The Labour Party is going to follow up until the revision, and I hope and pray fervently that the Christian People's Party and the Left also follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3386	I am also so lucky to have been allowed to be rapporteur. I have been in municipal policy since I was elected in 1987. During the period 2003-2011, I was allowed to be rapporteur in the municipality of Hemnes, so I would say that I know the municipality well, and I know the municipal policy and the economy there very well. I also know the propellers that were before the red-green ones, and so far below the red-green ones, and what is happening today. So trying to tell another story today, you can do it, but reality is something else. You don't have to go any further than looking up the newspapers or looking online to see it. My own municipality has been in budgetary negotiations today. It's not to add to the budget they've been sitting there today – they've had to cut the budget. My neighbourhood municipality, the municipality of Rana, which is also a right-wing municipality, also has a budget with great challenges. There are also no additions they discuss, it's cut. We can go to the municipality of Bodø, which is also right-hand. It's not sure they're yelling so loud, but I know that the debates go high in the hall, because there they also run with cuts. That's how we can go on. We can bring another big municipality from my county, Narvik – that's exactly the same thing. So trying to tell stories that it looks so good in the municipalities -- we can believe that when we stand here in the hall. But they have great challenges in getting the budgets together for 2015. When we don't want to make it so that they can go into the New Year, into Christmas, by cleaning up the budget for 2014, it won't be any easier. For the same municipalities that I mentioned, the large amount of money is involved. In the municipality of Rana, there may be as much as 12–15 million. NOK, in the Bodø municipality maybe about SEK 25 million. NOK, for my own municipality maybe about 3 million. kr. These are bills they have to cover before they start giving the offer in 2015. I would have asked myself from the representative Trellevik that I do not know what this is about, because I do. I was the rapporteur in Hemnes while it was red-green, and I was before that time, and I remember Erna very well as a municipal minister. I don't want that back. That's what the challenge is now. I wonder if the Right revealed itself in the same post at Trellevik, because he started talking about the municipal structure and the municipal sizes. I have a specific question for Trellevik: how large should these municipalities be before he believes that they are sustainable and can survive without getting what seemed to be a big fill from the state? It seemed more like you were back to the strategy you had when you had a local government minister from the Right. It was then done with the economy that it was difficult to operate the municipality. I wonder if that's the strategy of the municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3399	This has been a debate on the economy of the big cities. I have had the honour to sit in Bergen City Board for six years before I was elected to the Stortinget. There was in its time the Right Party Town Council was very good at blaming the red-green government for everything that went wrong in the city, and in particular they owed it to the Center Party, which set up and directed the Ministry of Local Affairs. So I'm familiar with the criticism that has come here today. The person who got me to speak was the representative Frank J. Jensen, who said something like the Workers' Party had to be happy to get rid of the Center Party in the Ministry of Local Affairs, and in particular Bergen and Stavanger were used as an example of how much better things went without us. I know that the Center Party's municipal framework would amount to 114 million. kr more, if I think correctly, to Bergen in relation to his regime. Bergen's Official Journal also reports that this does not only apply to Bergen. Three out of four municipalities in the West report cuts in their welfare supply next year. So we can stand here and discuss what's right, but there's a fact out in the municipalities. So back to Bergen. I thought you might be a little bit exasperating when you talk about the big cities and what happened when the Center Party was running. With our arrangement, it's going to be more to Bergen. When it comes to Bergen, I believe that if our order had been adopted, the Right Party and the Advance Party would have thought it was quite sweet, because there it is that the City Council of the Right and the Progress Party will once again introduce property taxes because the municipal economy is not sufficient to allow a clear budget to be raised. It was my feedback as to what it says when a speaker talks about the big cities' economy under this government and the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3410	When I finally thought that the debate could not take any more special turns, the Senter party launched itself as the big city party. I wonder if they have read their own comments. I can't read that the Center Party is a big city party. I also just heard that my colleague in the committee said that the Workers' Party has added 1 billion. kr on the table for collective betting. This was also the subject of a debate a few days ago on environment-friendly housing policy. Then I said that when we proposed 50 pst. the financing of large collective initiatives, the red-green ones voted it down. Now they're launching promises of 70 pst. more in funding, and they add 1 billion. on the table – why should we believe in these air money? This doesn't make sense. But then I was told the following: I was not allowed to say that, because now we had to look forward. I'm looking forward, I'm reading what's in the notes, and I can't believe it. I can't look forward without looking back, in the eight years we've had with a pure red-green majority, and what you didn't deliver in that period. So another thing. This story is a bit important for the Workers' Party, but it must not be wrong. As a good Right-Man, I'm not going to say that they're not speaking right, but at least I think I can demand that they be reasonable. The impression of a working party team, both in the media and in the notes, is that this government does not want to bet in the Groruddalen. In fact, state aid has varied from one year to the next in the case of frogs. And what did the Workers' Party do when they themselves were in government? – and this is a bit easy to get along with: in the 2009 big election, the aid went up, from 120 to 131 million. kr. In the mid-election year 2010, aid fell to 124 million. kr per year. We're proposing over 100 million. kr for that bet. That is twice as much as the government is obliged to do. So we keep what we promise, completely independent of election year or not election year. Then it must be allowed to say that after ten years of betting it is natural, logical and good for the Groruddalen that we think that the next ten years will not necessarily be a copy of the previous ten. We're going to bet in the whole city, in many municipalities – yes, in all municipalities, I would say – but the fact that we want to evaluate the frogs' bet before we move on, is not to bet on the Groruddalen, is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3419	The representative of Geir S. Tskedal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3423	Towards the end of the debate I suggest that the opposition has been relatively predictable in its rhetoric: it is cut, too little money, wrong priorities, etc. – in one of the richest countries in the world. I have been in the position of over 30 budgets in municipalities and county councils. There's always been too little money. It'll always be too little money. The distribution of scarce goods is part of policy. That's the way it's going to be. And this has been in collaboration with both the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party. But the opposition is right when they say that there has been a shift in the direction – yes, it is clear. The size represents the people in democratic elections. The people chose a shift. We in the Christian People's Party said we should contribute to a shift. For the Christian People's Party, it has meant significant breakthroughs in important valuables in addition to the budget, which we did not see swirled off in the red-green period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3432	The representative Bjørn Lødemel has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3435	The reason why I take the floor is that of the representative of Navarset. When it comes to the county income system, it has been clear in the rounds of this debate that the red-green government had sufficient information to implement a new income system for the county municipalities – as they had warned in many state budgets – but they did not implement it. That's what I call disclaimer. Then Navarsete refers to the budget of Sogn and Fjordane County and is in trouble with the budget this year. Sogn and Fjordane County are allowed to increase the allowance to state roads – from 30 million. kr under the red-green handlebar for SEK 72 million. We're getting new licenses for 65 million tunnel protection. NOK, and we get an interest compensation scheme corresponding to an investment of 116 million. kr. It's the bet of time on state roads. I record that Sogn and Fjordane counties have a buffer fund of 22.5 million. kr. This corresponds to the increased loss compensation received by Sogn and Fjordane County. I interpret this as a good signal that this is a budget that they can get together and that will be good for the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3444	The representative Ingerd Schou has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3447	It was the representative of Mr. Greni who made me take the floor with his description that the guidelines made it clear enough how the government parties looked at the districts, where I had used quotation marks. No, it does not do so with regard to guidelines for outsourcing State jobs. What I'm describing is the Central Party's view that cities, residential and working areas and cities can also be, in line with districts, places for the location of state activities. We have – on the basis of our government – taken into account that it can be both districts and agglomerations, called cities and housing and work regions, while the Centre Party did not have this. My point is that we use the whole country – both districts, cities and housing and work areas – as opposed to what the Centre Party did, when they only reserved this for what was to be district.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3452	André N. Skelstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3455	Many have known where they have been rapporteurs in the past. I've been working on municipal policy since 1995. It's always been a challenge to put together municipal and county budgets – there's nothing new, there can't be anything new to confess – because it's about prioritizing, and I'm surprised that it's so much harder this year. I don't understand. At the same time, I would like to make a brief comment to the representative, Mr Greni, who believes that this is centralisation. No, it's not. It's to give opportunities to the whole country – and that's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3462	I have listened with interest to the debate and will try to answer some questions. First to the representative of Aasland: the government continues the practice of the red-green government in 2004 and 2007, so the violent criticism must be a criticism of its own red-green government. I have said that we are going to follow up the comment of the civil parties, and I would like to repeat that now. Helga Pedersen raised the question of increased competence in municipalities. It's also very concerned with the government, and that's why we're stepping up the empowerment in kindergarten, in school, and in care. I have also discussed this issue with the four main associations of ‘Saman on a better municipality’. We will also report back to Stortinget in the municipal bill coming to spring. I record that Heidi Greni has read in Trønder-Avisa that there were many cuts in the municipalities of Trøndelag. Let me then remind you of what was going on in Trønder-Avisa on 9 October 2012. Then the central party rapporteurs from Leka, Fosnes and Snåsa stood up and said they felt the red-greens were failing. They said they were the big losers among the county's municipalities. The centre party rapporteur in Leka said: ‘We are already expected to face a deficit of half a million in the current year. If we now come out badly compared to the rest of the country it will force us to cut down", said Leka rapporteur Per Helge Johansen and added: ‘These municipalities do not have the right to life.’ This was under red-green rule. And so we can continue with quotations over eight red-green years – in the same way that the red-greens can now make many quotations from rapporteurs from the country and the beach around. But I think we're dealing with reality. It was claimed by the representative Lauvås that there is such a difference from red-green to bourgeois rule. Well, the growth in income for the municipalities is the same under bourgeois rule as it was during the last few years with red-green rule. The big difference is how the Workers' Party changes when the lot moves from position to opposition. That's the big difference. When the Workers' Party comes into opposition, you suddenly have a lot of air billions that you distribute. Let me then remind you of what Liv Signe Navarsete said to the evening post on 22 October 2014: She said she had to fight to get the frames up to the municipalities. They had heavy struggles to put the municipal framework into place in cooperation with the Workers' Party. If you at least listen to Liv Signe Navarsete, it was not the Workers' Party that was the driver of better municipal economy in the last eight years. And in the last six to seven years, the growth in municipal income was exactly the same as we assume for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3483	As usual, we fight about the description of reality, and I record that the representatives from the Right, as usual, take their somewhat bourgeois approach and say, "As good Right-men, we must be moderate – "someone" was probably the word of the Council of State. But when the defense of the municipal structure you're putting up for next year is that it's been bad before, and that's why it's not so dangerous that it has to be cut to next year, I don't think it's a good defense. You don't take inwards the reports we saw last week, related to the violation of the human rights of the elderly, which is also part of this picture, and which, of course, hasn't occurred this year. But if we're going to be sober and nuanced, we have to bring that with us, and then it's a little bit demanding, I think, to stand here on this pulp a week later and say that this is a wonderfully good arrangement. It is tax failure for the current year. It's a bill that's unpaid, and the municipalities have to pay to next year. It has to be subtracted from the growth of which the bourgeois boasts so violently. Economic developments are decreasing. It also means that tax revenue goes down. It is likely that next year's tax revenue will be lower. All of these are arguments for a solid community structure. When the Council of State accuses the Workers' Party of having air billions, he's not on the same planet as me. These air billions are a matter of political priority, because we don't have any historical investment in tax credits for the richest people here in the country. That's the money we choose to spend on Municipality-Norway, that's the money we choose to make available to municipal politicians to bet on school, kindergarten and care for the elderly. These aren't air billions. This is an expression of political priority – a political priority different from that set by the Council of State. Map of the income system: it is not the case that the Workers' Party is against the income system. We're in favour of the income system. We are strong supporters of framework grants, because it is economically effective. It is to lay the foundations for – provided that the framework is good enough – local democracy and regional democracy. We revised the municipal income system in 2010. It was a tough fight, too. I just want to remind you that the Progress Party was against it. The right was against incorporating the kindergartens into that system, so you have to take with you the whole story when you're driving history descriptions. We're against parts of this income system, but we didn't do anything about it when we were in position, because we think the basis is too bad. The data is too bad, and the scheme you add up to is not an objective system. It's a system based on political choices, where some people get hit very hard. With our alternative arrangement, you can compensate for those who get the worst out, if we get an impact on our primary position. But with our municipal structure, everyone, including Rogaland County, will get more money for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3500	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3503	The representative Frank J. Jenssen refers to a cut in the taxes on wealth, and that this should give many new jobs. Then the question is, how many jobs will there be in 2015 as a result of the cut in the property tax? Where is the technical documentation? And how much tax revenue is there from these jobs? It is also interesting to note that today's representatives of the government will rather talk about the policy of the red-green government than their own. It does not testify to any particular belief in the power and strength of your own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3511	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3514	I would like to invite the representative of Ingerd Schou to read the Regional and Regional Communication, which was submitted in the previous period. In fact, it says that the relocation of state jobs should take place in regional centres with a good environment of competence. I will again challenge Schou: Is there an example of one municipality to which the Central Party has moved state jobs, which is a municipality without people and roads, to use Schou's own expression?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3521	I notice that the Minister of State likes to quote. I also quote, from Ibsen: ‘Troll, be yourself – enough!’. I think a lot of politicians in my own hometown and in Ibsen's birthtown think like that – «Troll, be yourself – enough!» – in these budget days. I'm not going to put any more into it, because I want to have an answer to what I took the word for originally. It's great that the Mayor will follow up the comment. What are the obligations? There's a comment that's pretty unclear, because it says: ‘The majority are asked by the government to ensure that the county officials do not make any changes resulting in a significant reduction in the discretionary grant’. Can the Minister of Local Affairs elaborate on what he thinks, and can the Minister of Local Affairs also say a little more about what is meant by continuing practice? It has not been a practice in the past that one has drawn both in the framework and in the discretionary means. Double moves haven't been normal, so it's kind of strange that the mayor adopts that attitude. That it has been drawn into the discretionary funds after conversion — yes, that’s right, but there have not been double moves. And what will the Minister of State do with regard to the municipalities that have been double-drawn because of the conversion of the employer's fee, when they are now sitting and handling their budgets? Will the Minister of Municipal Affairs already ensure that the county officials are able to match the suit in the context of the use of beauties? Can the Minister of State guarantee that? If he is unable to guarantee it, the statements of Njåstad in Telemarksavia on 5 December do not stand as believers, nor is the scheme presented to those municipalities. So we need a clarification on that, and then I'm going to ask the Minister of State to guarantee that he'll follow it up, and especially maybe in those cases where the countyer himself says there's no more money left. Will the Minister of State, for example? do as is stated in the comments of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, use the possibility of using, if necessary, discretionary means which are not yet distributed at the level of the State? That is the guarantee we are asking for, so that the municipalities that are now sitting back in despair, and have experienced double moves, will not get the burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3533	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3536	I'm just going to correct a mistake I made myself from the pulpit when I said that Bergen got 114 million. kr more with our setup. The right number is 126 million. kr. Oslo gets 303 million. kr more with our model, Trondheim 79 mill. kr more and Stavanger 64 mill. kr more. It shows that when the Central Party disappeared from the government, from the Ministry of Local Affairs, there was a deterioration in the economy of the metropolitan municipalities of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3541	There have been some weird rounds here with descriptions of whether it was worse before, whether it's equally bad now, etc. The point is that now we have good finances. This government has money at its disposal that no other government has ever had before. And how do they use them? That's what the criticism is about, not painting something that's been before. I guess I'm probably the oldest one in this room right now, and maybe the one who's been the longest in both local government and county, so I've tried a lot of different governments. It hasn't been easy, it isn't. But the point is, what do you do now with all the money you have? I've been challenged several times about child protection and the quality of child protection, and it's very important. Therefore, SV 200 of the millions we have at our disposal is using to strengthen child protection by earmarked means – in addition to what the government is doing. That's what we think is important, so that the kids and families can get help when they need it, and that there are employees there. I've talked to a lot of the kids who've been in child protection, and they've said that they need a school health service, because that's where they dare to go when they're in trouble. That's why we have in our arrangement, of the space of action that the government has used to provide tax credits, granted and spent almost 400 million. kr to ensure that there will be a school health service, so that all kids have someone to go to. That's what this is about! And for us, it's incredibly much more important and correct to spend money that way. So we're using the space we now have to strengthen these important things. We also strengthen the school. It's an old Chinese saying that whoever fills his head and not his pockets can't be robbed. That's incredibly true. If we manage to give all our kids confidence in themselves, not only in fact, but also in the belief that they can master changes in their lives, we know that they stand a lot more steady no matter what happens. That's why it's incredibly much more important that we fill our heads and hearts – and our hands too – to these kids than that we fill our pockets to those who have more than enough from before. That's where the OECD has given SV the right. We have called our alternative budget «Parts to create». Today, the OECD report has come — and the OECD is not known to be under-utilisation of SV — which says that this is right: the more we share, the more we spend on common well-being, in school, in kindergarten, and on getting people to live off, the more economically successful society as a whole will be. It'll be better for everyone! That is why we believe that the government has made a completely wrong choice in the priority of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3554	When things that are not true are repeated, one must go out and correct again. Several people here have said that you have a good experience in setting up a municipal budget. Well, so do I. I started in the local government in 1991. I don't think it's very important what work is done here, but it probably mattered when I put in another system for eight years and was going to rule. Then it was good to have one of them put in the municipal budget for a few years. It has been said by several from the Right that in the work on the income system there was a good enough information, sufficient information, and that we were drifting out of responsibility. No, we didn't have enough good ground, nor did we have this government. Therefore it should never have been presented. A mix of subjects and policies has been presented in a happy mix and not an objective criterion in all areas — and this is particularly true in the area of transport and ferry transport. There is no objective criterion presented by the government. That's what I think is bad, and it's got rent consequences for someone. It has also been said here about the municipal economy – and especially for Sogn and Fjordane County Council – that one has such good advice that one can put money into buffer funds, $22.5 million. kr, so it's not dangerous. It's a conversion fund that we're going to use to do things to convert and cut the budget, and it's the head of the municipal committee that according to politicians in Sogn and Fjordane County have said that we don't have to use the funds for operation; we have to use them for conversion. Of course, one must do this when cutting as much as Sogn and Fjordne must. What has been done? My name is the bookboat, which has been operating for 51 years – he will be cut. The number of members of the county council is cut. 900000 kroner to teams and organisations are cut. Olden–Innvik, of whom the representative Bjørn Lødemel should be extremely busy, is signed out, 400 million. kr. There is no use of interest-rate compensation funds in the economic plan for Sogn and Fjordane County for any of the years planned, because one cannot afford to pay off. And then right is its representative from the same state and boasts of how great the interest compensation scheme is. Getting a package does not help much when you can't afford to pay to eject the Post package. So it doesn't have Sogn and the Fjords per day. That package they have to send in return to the Right in government and say thank you, it was nice, but we can't afford to accept it, because we can't afford to pay off with the hopeless budget they have provided us. I want to be a little bit lower on cigaring and a little more empathetic for the job that needs to be done locally by those who are actually local and have to do the job of cutting their budgets. I think they experience what was said here, as quite provocative, according to the telephones I have received this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3569	If there's going to be a crushing sentence on the central government ministers, we don't have to do that. Liv Signe Navarsete himself does that with the way she now confirms that you have been working on this matter for many years, but did nothing about it. You didn't put it out. They say you weren't done. Why didn't you finish it? Did they have too much time? No, you didn't. Was it politically inconvenient to present the matter? Yes, it was. Then it's nice that Toppe has care for the big cities. I think both Bergen, Stavanger and others would have appreciated the same care when the Senterpartiet cut out that the municipalities could get a share of the corporate tax, the day they reduced the tax income of the municipalities, which hit, among other things. these cities. It's nice to care for you today. That care was absent at the time. I note that Lauvås still wants to raise the issue of property taxes. I just repeat: I think it's a paradox when we talk about value creation and ownership in Norway that the Workers' Party seems to favor owners of farms living in Cyprus, and rather provides penalties for those who live in Fröya.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3578	First to Aasland and the post to Helge André Njåstad: I might recommend that Aasland read the post that Helge André Njåstad had in the telemark newspapers. It was probably something more nuanced than what was produced from this pulpit. Otherwise, I am happy to note that Aasland and I obviously agree with the extract from the framework, that it can either happen as we have done, or via the discretionary grant, as the red-green government did. It's the same practice. In the case of the discretionary grant, it is the case that between 2008 and 2012 it was specified that municipalities that had a higher rate of employer’s contribution than before 2004 were to be compensated by the discretion. So the red-green government changed these guidelines, so that in 2013 and 2014 this should be taken into account in the distribution of judgements. In other words, no guarantee from the red-green government changed the direction of discretion. I have said that I should follow up the majority comment given by the civil parties. Finally to Sivertsen: I am glad that Sivertsen nuanced the picture somewhat compared to what has emerged earlier in the debate. I didn't say it was bad before. On the contrary, I have emphasised that there was good growth in the local economy under red-green governance, and we are adding up to the corresponding growth for the coming year. We are concerned that municipalities should have growth so that they can strengthen their commitment to both school, health and care and other important areas. At the same time, we know that the local politicians will also face clear priorities next year. I don't know if there's any more that's drawn. If that's not the case, I would like to thank you for a good and interesting debate. I am absolutely sure that we will come back to these questions both in a discussion before Christmas and beyond spring 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3589	It is nice that the Council of State Sanner thanks, but I must disappoint to say that there are enough articles. The representative Helga Pedersen gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3594	My time is running out in this context, but I can promise the Mayor that we will return to the issues we have discussed today. It's striking how concerned the Right and Advance Party is to discuss the past and the situation under the Red-Green Government. And just for the record: the budget of today's government for 2015 is lower than the red-green budget for 2014, both in percent and in billions. I would also like to take the opportunity here at the end of the day to say that the Christian People's Party and the Left are to be commended for the improvements in the municipal structure for the next year. Unfortunately, the main approach remains firm: the wealthiest tax haven is the main priority for the bulk of population in the next year, but for the municipal sector, the gap between available resources and the tasks expected by agglomeration and government to be resolved by municipalities is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3602	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3605	I can assure the municipal minister that I have read the article in TA very carefully. It's pretty interesting, and in my opinion it's quite obligating. I just note that in this debate the municipal minister is not as obligatory as it is given the impression that the representatives of the Progress Party, with the emphasis on the comments of the committee leader, are actually. I think it is a pity that the municipal minister could not now guarantee for the three municipalities it is in, at least, Telemark, and that the more than 13 000 inhabitants who are going to be affected in connection with this will not get any guarantees before the budget is added.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3615	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3618	This concerns the discussion of corporation tax. It is quite right that the previous government and SV believe that the corporate tax should be distributed in such a way that all municipalities enjoy it, because it is not that the municipalities today do not get a share of it – they do. The point of that is that if you leave the corporation tax as a purely municipal tax, it means that municipalities that have large incomes themselves get to keep more of them. It's Right Policy – whether you're a human being or a municipality and have high incomes, you're going to keep the income yourself. But that means that you have a lot less for those municipalities that are struggling with business development, and it's with municipalities like it is with people: when a municipality is struggling with business development, does not have enough jobs for everyone, they need less from the Right, because then they think it's going better. It's the same with people like that. They do not have a job or health – they also have to be deprived of money, because then they have to do better. SV deeply disagrees with that strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3625	First, to Karin Andersen: I must say that this municipal settlement has a very clear profile towards some of those who have the least, already. It is difficult to see any massive increase in resources from the red-green in health centres, in the case of school health services, in the case of kindergarten prices, especially those in low-income families, and in the case of child protection, where we have added quite a lot, and the red-green ones also cut support for resource-intensive users. So here's a lot to point to that going in the right direction. What I took the floor for was, in particular, the tax entrance, which we follow closely. Now there are still a few days left of this year, and we'll see what the final tax intake is for 2014. Then there's going to be a revised budget for spring and a municipal bill, which it's possible to rectify if it turns out that the tax intake for 2014 is going to be as low as anyone has suggested here. There are possibilities here to make adjustments pretty soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3632	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3635	I just need to make it clear that the Workers' Party is actually for the growth grant and for big city grants. Our arrangement involves more money for both Oslo, Stavanger and Bergen – 96 million. SEK more to Bergen, 49 million. kr more to Stavanger and 230 mill. kr more to Oslo. I record that the representative Jensen troubles the property tax, but he does not at all problem the property tax, which is introduced in Stavanger and Bergen, and which is being thrown over to the people most. It's also a tax burden that someone has to pay. We can discuss taxes on wealth, we've done that many times. If Jensen has not received it: the main advantage of the property tax is that it is accurate in terms of redistribution – even if it has some disadvantages – so that is the reason for it. So to the representative, Mr Kjeseth: Before going to the Chair, perhaps you should read through the budgetary proposals that form the basis for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3644	The representative, Kjell-Idar Juvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3647	The representative Mudasar Kapur moved forward the Workers' Party and our collective effort – that we were suddenly in opposition and promised 70 pst. And all of a sudden, it's been $1 billion. kr more on the table for collective betting. Yeah, that's right. And why did we do that? There's two reasons for that. One is that the municipalities have asked for it. They're not able to take these big promises themselves with their economy, and then we have to raise the rate to 70 pst. That's exactly what we're discussing here today, and the exact same thing applies to that billion more. That's the main reason why we've done it. The second reason why we've done that is that we've prioritised different things. Then I have to say that I am a little disappointed with the minister, who is trying to present it as if the job we have done with our budget is just about monopoly money or air money. I can promise that it isn't. We've worked well with our budget, and that's what people would have gotten if they had put us into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3654	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3658	The councils were up and kept a statement about the frames of discretion and their modification. No one has denied it. What has been going on both from me and from other representatives of this pulpit is that we have not had double moves, as this government does. Here, a community supplement is drawn to each municipality, and there are also different patterns of frames of discretion from the counties. It's a new practice, and it's very strange that after so many weeks that have passed since a budget was released, right-wing representatives and the Council of State stand firm at a position that's not right. I actually thought one should fix that. And then one should give a guarantee to the municipalities that have received double moves, that it will be corrected. There is at least one thing you should be able to do before leaving this hall tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3663	The representative Mudasar Kapur has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3666	I would like to thank the representative Juvik for finally clarifying the Workers' Party's own priorities. He says that the main reason why they put this billion on the table, and the main reason why they're willing to cover 70 pst. by the collective effort, they are now listening to the municipalities, and therefore they will now use the money. Then he admits two things. Number one is that the Workers' Party did not listen to the municipalities as they themselves were in government for eight years. Number two is that they were not willing to use the money when they were in position, but they have a lot of money now, in opposition. So I'm saying thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3671	Several have not asked for the floor for this part of the debate, and we will proceed to the consideration of the budget chapters under the framework area 6, which concerns the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3674	I am sure that all hearts are happy that I have been filled with speaking time. The Norwegian debate on immigration and integration is very often reduced to a change of words from the trenches, where the main theme is how many asylum seekers we should have. There will not always be an equally nuanced debate. Norway is not an isolated island in the world, we are part of a world that is getting smaller, or said in another way: a world where globalisation is strongly increasing, and where migration is also increasing. In the last week, the focus has been on the long-term asylum children and a lasting arrangement for them. That is an important part of the debate. We record that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have reached an agreement on a new regulation for the long-term children and their parents. It is good for the parties that they have finally come to an agreement, so that the people and the children involved can clarify their situation and move on with their lives. We are hoped that the cooperating parties will achieve what they want and avoid undesirable effects. The consequences of actual changes in the practice of non-resident management remain to be seen. It is positive that the number of quota refugees has increased political attention in the public vocabulary in the last year. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have now pushed the government to increase the number of quota refugees up to the level proposed by the government of Stoltenberg II for 2014. We have the equivalent in our 2015 alternative budget for the number of refugees. There are, however, two aspects I want to deal with in relation to quota refugees. One is the request decision from Stortinget which was taken in June, where Stortinget asked for an assessment of how many more Syrian refugees we can receive in 2014 and 2015. In addition to an estimate of a number of challenges and a proposal to continue the level of the year for the number of refugees, the government is not included in the Grand Duchy’s assessment. The second thing I want to address about the quota refugees is related to the cooperation agreement in the foreign affairs field between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Paragraph 24 states that priority should be given to quota refugees who are most likely to be successfully integrated. It represents a shift in Norwegian policy – a shift in the wrong direction. Despite the fact that the guidelines in force provide for such a priority, Norwegian practice has been that the request of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has been followed. The fact that the Progress Party is in charge of such a policy is nothing new, but I think it is alarming and disappointing that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party actually accept this shift. The Workers' Party builds its refugee and asylum policy on international commitments and the moral duty we have to provide humanitarian assistance to our fellow human beings, including those outside the borders of the country. In the government, we have led a consistent, fair and legal refugee and asylum policy. That's what we're going to continue to do in opposition. The alternative to a consistent asylum policy is less predictability and undermining the institution of asylum. It has been an objective for us to ensure that as many as possible asylum seekers in Norway are actually entitled to asylum. You've succeeded in increasing that proportion. A percentage of more than 60 people have now been granted asylum. It has been widely agreed that rapid processing is important to control asylum immigration. I hope that the government will be able to continue this positive development and leave the foundation and succeed in creating under the previous government. For the Workers' Party, immigration and diversity represent an opportunity and a great potential for the nation. The assumption, of course, is that it is possible to facilitate a high degree of integration. That integration is to be based on the foundations of our society, and the welfare society in Norway is based on solidarity and willingness to provide and share. Trust in the institutions of society and trust among its citizens is a necessary prerequisite for this society. All obligations to end the laws of society and respect the democratic fundamental values. Now we've got the most right-wing government we've had in many years, and integration is not as high on the agenda anymore. This government is already starting with receptions, they are proposing reduced rates for adult residents in reception. This happens without any professional evidence and despite the fact that health professionals have previously warned against it, the rates are already too low for the residents to get enough nourishment. The Labour Party believes that there should be a sobering standard of stay in the reception of asylum, but not that one should be starved. So we're going to reverse this in our alternate budget. A strong welfare state contributes to good integration. Childcare facilities for all, a good public common school, safe health and care provision, social housing policy and a diverse cultural effort are therefore important for the success of the integration offer. The government's answer is to propose to cut the grant of the nursery provision for four- and five-year-olds in the host municipalities. There is no factual justification other than to balance the budget. We believe that children in reception centres, in the same way as Norwegian children, should have childcare facilities. It is a good start to integration and a reasonable offer also to those children who may not be allowed to be. In this context, I refer to our alternative arrangement for kindergartens in our budget. Nor is travel allowance for family reunification a priority of the government. The settlement of refugees we are all concerned with. However, the question is how the government will solve the challenge. The majority indicate in the timing that the integration grant and the investment grant increase. I'm not sure if that's enough. The forecasts show that next year's housing needs are roughly the same as in the current year, and this year it is estimated that 7800 out of 11,000 people have settled in need of housing. For the Workers' Party, we follow up our initiative from the revised national budget and propose a time-limited additional integration grant of NOK 100 000 per long-term refugee in reception. We must prevent the development of a class-based society in which people with a migrant background have a worse living conditions and lower social participation than the rest of the population. Work gives individual economic autonomy and is the main means of combating poverty, equalising social differences and achieving equality between women and men — including among immigrants. In particular, it is important that more women with a migrant background are given the opportunity to participate in the labour market. Although we have small differences and come out relatively well in terms of countries we compare with, it is still the case that immigrants are less represented in professional life than the majority population – 63.1 pst, respectively. for immigrants and 68,6 pst. for the majority population. Job opportunities, free core time in kindergarten and free part-time space in the school leisure system are examples of measures that contribute to integration. The question is what measures the government prioritises in order to raise participation in professional life. What are the priorities of the government to increase women's participation in the labour market? In the 1960s, Norway was very poor when it came to equality for women, but we made some political choices. In the 1970s–1980s and 2000s, Norway was raised to be one of the most equalised countries in the world, with a very high level of equality for women. This was the result of political elections. Policy choices must also be made in the field of immigration and integration. The political choices must be made so that immigrants have the opportunity to participate in social and professional life, in line with the rest of us who live here. Let me stress that successful integration is based on reciprocity in rights and obligations. It is crucial for good social development that citizens are able to take responsibility for their own lives, and the primary responsibility will always lie with the individual. At the same time, however, authorities must help to give new citizens a chance to become part of Norwegian society. Integration is a two-way process, based on duties and rights. It's about building barriers where they have to be found, whether it's in education, in work, in health, in the provision of services or in other areas. The barriers may be high or low, depending on the individual’s starting point. There is a difference between coming to Norway as a migrant worker, a family immigrant or a refugee. It's different for adults than for children. There are differences between men and women and between boys and girls. There are also differences between immigrants from different countries and continents. Therefore, measures must also be flexible, as individualised as possible and cover all phases of life. For example, there is a difference between Africans, who have a employment rate of 41.9 p.p., immigrants from the EU, who have an employment rate of 73 p.p. and those from Asia with an employment rate of 55,2 pst. And then there's some simple explanations of that. There are also some more complex ones. What remains to be seen, and which I hope the debate will clarify today, is that today's government will follow up with an active policy to continue to ensure a high level of participation and great opportunities for those who come to Norway. One important reason why we have done so well with integration is that we have had an overall policy of balancing differences. This government is pursuing a policy that helps to increase the diversity of society. It will also increase the challenges of successful integration. Increased disparities in society will weaken opportunities for immigrants. It will also mean poorer integration and thus waste possible resources for the nation. Worst of all, this will lead to a worse life and worse opportunities for those who come to Norway to get a better life and rot here. For me, there is little in the government budget that indicates that integration is a priority area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3721	When I hear the representative Sivertsen say that the most important thing for the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens has been equalizing differences, I wonder very much about how little has been done to try to settle refugees. The most important thing is to be able to accommodate refugees in the municipalities, so that you can access school, housing, work, etc. That's the basis for solving differences. When today's government went into the government offices, there were over 5,000 people waiting for reception. I need to ask the representative in a popular way: what in the world is the Workers' Party thinking about when you didn't contact all the municipalities to try to settle refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3728	I agree that we have a challenge to settle refugees. It was important for the previous government to make sure that we had control of immigration. That was one of the first things we got into. The second thing we've done is to work together with the municipalities. It's about facilitating a dialogue and actually finding solutions to the problem, and not trying to find a solution down the heads of the municipalities, some of which have been asked for. With regard to the popular issue that the representative of Schou has, it is that it was a simple assessment of the cost-benefit effect, because we saw that the smallest municipalities had limited resources related to housing and, not least, succeeded in integrating immigrants. This does not mean that no small municipalities can succeed – we have good examples of this – but we did not choose to prioritize it, as we got more effect from prioritising the larger municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3737	The conflict in Syria started too fully in 2011, and we discussed it last year. Throughout 2011, throughout 2012, and throughout 2013, the Workers' Party and the then Red-Green Government did not lift a finger for Syrian refugees. Only when they had been thrown out of the government offices after the election, they made the promise to accept 2,000, which they have boasted. Today's government has contributed to receiving record refugees and contributing financially down there. Then I hear the representative Sivertsen say from the spokesperson of Stortinget that he is happy that the Left and Christian People's Party has got the number to accept, up to what the Red-Green Government proposed, namely a little over 2,000. But the Workers' Party's alternative budget has shown that this was only a game for the gallery, because they won't accept near it. So if Sivertsen is so concerned about accepting the number of Christian People's Party and the Left, why don't you show it in your alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3744	I notice that the representative Keshvar chooses to use very strong wordings to characterize his political opponents. It shall be for the account of the representative. I'm not familiar with the description, that we haven't done anything. On the contrary, we have pursued an active aid policy. It has been very important to have a close dialogue with the UN and with the High Commissioner for Refugees. The situation in Syria is a terrible tragedy. It has evolved from bad to worse, and there is nothing to suggest that there is a solution in the short term. The situation has escalated significantly beyond that of 2012 and 2013. That is why we proposed entering the current year's budget an additional quota for Syrian refugees of 1000. It didn't do today's government. They were pressured to accept 500 extra refugees so that 1000 would be from Syria. So we have a good conscience, but we're glad we've now come up with what we also set up in our alternative budget, 1000 extra refugees from Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3751	I want to return to the situation in the asylum recipients, who have certainly been difficult and difficult. The residence has slowed down, including for minor asylum seekers or refugees. But it is clear that the Workers' Party must have considerable experience in this area. Now I would like to ask not what was the reason why this happened, and why the Workers' Party did not do more, but if the representative Sivertsen can answer what the Workers' Party believes was the reason why the municipalities did not accept more refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3757	We had a good dialogue with the municipalities, and one of the main explanations we heard was related to the access to housing. That is why we also did something about the grant of housing. It is also closely linked to what we debated in the previous part of the debate, namely the framework of the municipalities, because they must have a housing offer and an investment grant linked to it, but they must also have a sufficient integration grant and a framework to operate ordinary municipal services. Then we had a discussion about how to make it easier for municipalities to receive even more, as we saw the need for housing increased. Then we decided to engage in a closer dialogue, and together with KS we found the cooperation agreement – how are we going to solve this challenge together? It is the agreement that has been extended by the current government. I'm glad, but we still haven't solved the challenges. We're asked if we can't have a stronger tilt.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3764	In the spirit of good dialogue yesterday Audun Lysbakken wrote on his blog: ‘The agreement on asylum-seekers must be a serious incentive for the Workers’ Party. Right now, the Ap remains as the most restrictive party on the Stortinget regarding asylum-seekers. The fear of yielding to asylum policy has driven Ap into positions where it is difficult to see the difference between them and Frp, and at the moment Frp is thus more liberal in the case of children.’ This says former government councillor Audun Lysbakken. Is there any former government councillor Audun Lysbakken that has misunderstood, or is it that it is correct, what Audun Lysbakken wrote on his blog yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3774	In the Labour Party, we have no need to rank who is the kindest, who is the strictest, and who is the most restrictive or liberal in immigration policy. We in the Labour Party have been committed to pursuing a fair, fair and consistent asylum and immigration policy. We did that when we were in government, and we're going to continue in opposition. I am pleased that the representative of Skkelstad and the cooperating parties got this agreement in place. There are many people who have been waiting for a year to clarify their life situation. Then I register that what has been included in the regulation is many of the points discussed in the Report. St. 27 for 2011–2012 Children on the run, that they have fixed it and made some other adjustments. How it will turn out in practice, well, it remains to be seen. How the representative Audun Lysbakken assesses which games are the most strict and kind – that ranking makes Audun Lysbakken stand free to publish on its blog.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3785	One of the really ugly, unsocial cuts in the budget that the government put forward was cut in the allocation to kindergarten for young people on asylum reception. So far, municipalities have received money to enable four-female children to go to kindergarten. These are kids who have an extremely abnormal situation in life, and many are long in reception, also because there are parties in local government that vote no to settle. This is also about young people learning Norwegian early, which is one of the most important things for integration. I know that the representative Sivertsen has small children, and I have small grandchildren. I have worked in kindergarten, and I know that most of the language training happens when the kids are very small, then you automatically learn it. Then the question is, why is the Workers' Party not included in the SV's proposal to legislate that children on asylum reception are entitled to kindergarten, as other children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3792	I share with the representative Andersen’s view of the situation of small children living on reception – and some quite a long time – is actually in. It's heartbreaking to see and experience. I don't think that's good for the kids. I am among those who believe that kindergarten is good for everyone, even for my own child, and believe that this should be an offer that benefits all children, including children sitting on reception, even those who may risk being sent out of the country, because they are not allowed to stay here. We have included this in our alternative budget for the municipalities. We've said we're going to reverse this for four-femur rings. We have said that it is desirable to put this in place for one-three-year-olds. With time and times maybe the time is ripe to legislate on it, but we're not ready to go straight to a law enforcement. We're more concerned about getting the money in place first, and then we get to bring the law when they're in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3799	In this debate, we make it clear that the Committee has a great responsibility, both through Part 1 that we have had, and through what we are now dealing with – both on asylum policy, integration, reception and deployment, and that everything should be handled in the best possible way. It is a demanding area, and it affects the whole of Norwegian society, at all levels of government, but also all communities that are to integrate people who are to find their way on an equal footing in our country. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee for their cooperation, but I would particularly like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for the cooperation we have had with a view to reaching an agreement. Furthermore, I would like to thank the two respective state councils responsible for this policy area, and their civil service and political leadership, for good help when we have both asked questions and expressed our views. For the very first time, all municipalities in the country – large and small – have been asked to accept refugees. By the end of November, there were about 6,900 people living there, and that's 17 pst. more than at the same time last year. I hear from the first post that the number is roughly equal, but it's not. There is a significant increase, and by the end of November, around 5,200 people in reception in a municipality were expected to move to, and there are 224 fewer than at the same time last year. There's still too many, but still it's gone in the right direction. It is demanding for municipalities to say yes and rig to a scheme in such a way that people feel welcome, and so that we get started on what is the most important measure of integration – namely housing, school, language, health and work. It is expected that by the end of the year, 8 000 refugees may be settled and that the number of ready-to-residence residents in state reception will be further reduced towards the turn of the year. I know that the Council of State held regional meetings in October, with 50 rapporteurs, on the settlement and integration of refugees in the municipalities. They said that the main restrictions on housing are housing shortages and that the integration grant does not cover the additional costs of integration measures for municipalities. It is currently delivering the government, because in the budget submitted for 2015, the government is proposing to increase the appropriations for precisely what municipalities are asking for – an increase in the integration grant of 50 million. kr. It's going to add up to 250 million. kr in the budget for this year. In addition, the government proposes to increase the House Bank's grant framework for rental properties, including 50 million. kr for next year. There were also 100 million. kr i revised for the year of rental. So the government responds to what the municipalities actually demand as the critical mass in order to do the work that we want the municipalities to do – and it is voluntary for the municipalities, but then we also have to provide them with the tools that they demand, and that the government is actually coming with. In addition, for the next year, a two-year trial project will be launched, which will be responsible, in particular, for the district officials in both Eastfold and Hordaland, to settle directly from the counties. The number of lone minors awaiting residence has increased this year. It's serious. Everyone must contribute to these young people becoming a resource in the municipalities. By the end of November, which we have just rounded, 5,214 were waiting for a municipality to live in. So there's a 240 reduction – less than at the same time last year. The most important thing is that we make sure that we do not get into such a situation – that we have so many waiting. I dare remember all the minors, long-term children, those who have been in our country for four, five, six, seven, almost eight years -- is there anyone who recognizes those numbers? The important thing is that we don't get into such a situation, that someone has to be so long without having to clarify their situation – whether that's because parents don't help clarify their identity, or that their parents can't do it for other, more plausible reasons. I am very pleased that we have now reached an agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. I'm absolutely sure someone will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3818	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3821	Au Pair Center was established in 2012 and provides advice, guidance and assistance to au pairs in Norway. The Centre has proved to be an important safety net to help individual au pair, if they are exposed to exploitation or abuse in their host families. The police are not calling the host family with information about rights in contracts, the UDI is not writing a claim for final settlement for au pairs, free legal aid is not handling matters relating to non-payment of pay and holiday money. Why on earth did the Right and the Government in their draft budget mean that the Au Pair Center should not receive any financial support at all, and proposed $0 to the Centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3828	What the representative of the Au Pair Center spoke about was an assessment by the government there and there. As far as I remember, this means something for every one, but deals with very few. If I remember correctly, it's a couple hundred that's about. We also have institutions and organisations that should be able to help these au pairs, mainly girls, in such a way that they have a place to go – that they can use the existing and ordinary institutions we have in our country. I fully agree with the representative Lauvås that there are some bad examples of how au pair girls have been treated, so the fact is that we fully agree. But that we necessarily need to have a center to deal with this has not been the government's priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3835	I thank you for your answer. With this in mind, one got into the harbour of the budgetary agreement, where the Christian People's Party and Left provided for the allocation to the Au Pair Center – against the government's first wish. With the answer that Ingerd Schou gave: Is it so to understand that Au Pair Center can now plan for further operations, with support of the state budget also beyond 2015, or was there any indication that this was the last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3842	Now the Au Pair Center, as you can see, is saved for 2015. And as both I and the representative Lauvås are aware, this is a budget for 2015. I must say that when the government makes a proposal, it is a proposal from a minority government. The government knows very well that it is the government of the Great Government, and not the other way around. That means that here in the Great Britain we are going to find an agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. So I have to say that I'm happy that we keep the Au Pair Center, and that the girls who need it can actually get help there. But I don't ignore the fact that there are a number of other social institutions that can provide good help and do good work for the girls who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3850	The budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left has, among other things, as a result of a request decision to the government, asking them to provide an overview of the total capacity to receive refugees in the municipalities. Increased residence of refugees who have been granted residence in Norway is important. Although the municipalities have increased their reception, there are still too many people who are in reception for too long after they have been given permanent residence. Municipalities are struggling to provide housing and, in addition, they believe that there is a gap between the actual costs and what they receive in integration grants. The centre party has proposed to set at 200 million. kr in order to escalate the integration grant. There was a slight increase last year and a slight increase this year. Does the Right agree that the integration grant needs to be further lifted in order to provide the municipalities with full compensation for the actual costs of the settlement of refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3855	I have to smile a little when I get these questions from the representative, Mr. Greni, because I think it could have helped Greni himself when the representative's party put in government. The Government and the majority of the Stortinget helped to increase the integration grant by 250 million. NOK 2014 and we're going to continue with another SEK 50 million. kr in 2015. What has been the challenge for the representative of Greni and the red-green government must be that you do not even check what was the actual capacity outside the municipalities, because you did not ask the municipalities that were the least. However, we have not separated whether there have been large or small municipalities, we have stressed that we should ask all the municipalities, precisely because we need to get an overview of municipalities that actually have the capacity, competence and quality of the services we want to offer – the capacity did not break the representative of Greni and her red-green government to ask for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3860	I have to say, I think the explanation for the cut on the au pair center is very special, that it's going to be a main goal for a government that has billions to take off, to take $3 million. kr from people that we even know can be exposed to human trafficking and gross abuse, because that is what has been revealed to happen. But it is another matter that has amazed me in this budget. I know the old Right so that they were concerned with legal certainty, including in the asylum procedure, and the budget that the government has now presented has quite a rough cut in the apparatus to be dealt with, that is, UNE and UDI. There are also cuts in the means of legal assistance through the organisations. I wonder: How does this relate to the Court's fundamental view that legal certainty should be ensured and should apply to all, regardless of who they are?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3867	Both the government and the Right are concerned with legal certainty, both for those who come to the country and who are to be integrated into the municipalities, and for those who seek asylum and are to have their application decided by being allowed to stay or not being allowed to stay. Both UDI, UNE and organisations helping to assess whether the application has been properly dealt with or not have continued to have funds. I'm not going to hide that I could still plan more funds for that area, but we have an agreement now in the budget agreement that exists, and I'm absolutely sure that will follow up the government as well. But it's not like there are small amounts of money set aside for neither UDI nor UNE. The most important legal certainty is that those who come here actually get a residence and come out to the municipalities, and it did not ensure that when they were in government. 5,000 on hold, that's what we took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3872	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3875	The Progress Party is well pleased with the commitment to the asylum and immigration field in the 2015 budget and with the significant change in course that implies a more restrictive asylum and immigration policy, which is absolutely necessary in view of the major challenges in this area. When the Progress Party and the Right formed government in 2013, we took in many ways over a red-green bankruptcy house where the system had played down also in this field. The heirs after the red-greens were 5,500 people at reception who had been granted a residence but had not been settled in the municipalities due to blasted capacity, over 5000 who had been refused but who were still on reception, and at the top of the additional 7,000 people with rejections located in Norway outside the receptions. We in the Progress Party have always been clear and clear about treating refugees with respect. We must respect our obligations and process applications from those who ask for protection in a thorough and sound manner. At the same time, we demand the same respect from those who have been denied their applications and have no need for protection, leaving the country, as required by law. A large number of people with a refusal to apply for asylum who occupy their reception capacity are precious to the Norwegian community, unfortunate for the individuals who choose to put themselves in a difficult situation, and it undermines the entire institution of asylum. Transport is therefore an important priority for the Progress Party in the government, and that is why we are increasing the target number of shipments to record 10 to 100 to next year. This approach, together with 90 new closed places at Trandum, a new return centre at Gardermoen, will help to restore confidence and respect for the institution of asylum by significantly increasing the number of posts held by police units responsible for returning illegal immigrants and by providing a formidable boost to the work of IDs in asylum cases. This will also be a signal that Norway has received a government that intends to fully enforce the laws and regulations in this field. The Progress Party has brought about a significant change of course after we entered the government, including in the field of asylum, immigration and integration policy. We have had more extensive restrictions with the Left and Christian People's Party, which are liberal in this field, than the Workers' Party has been able to in its eight years in a majority government. The Labour Party has constantly tried to give the impression that they are restrictive in immigration policy, but the agreement on immigration policy and its follow-up to the next year shows that it is incorrect. The Party of Advances has received in the Government a number of closed receptions and differentiated receptions, including: establish higher-security return centres, more efficient processing and faster return of persons without legal residence and criminals. In addition, we have limited the possibility of promoting the desire to convert, which means that there is a faster and more effective treatment of groundless requests for conversion. The Progress Party has taken steps to raise the maintenance requirement in family start-ups to ensure that those who come to Norway can support themselves. There will also be increased use of DNA testing to clarify the identity of family reunification. The 24-year age limit for family start-ups will be introduced, with the aim of combating coerciveness, as more in the Labour Party have been mentioned for many years, without doing anything about it. Work is under way to strengthen the Schengen external border and strengthen cooperation with the major beneficiary countries in order to prevent groundless asylum seekers from travelling from country to country within Schengen. The Government Progress Party has put forward proposals, which are being consulted, that all applicants for Norwegian citizenship should master a minimum of Norwegian orally and undergo a test of social knowledge in Norwegian which they must pass in order to obtain citizenship. It shall no longer be automatic in obtaining Norwegian citizenship, as was the case under the Workers' Party. We strengthen language training for women with a minority background and provide more opportunities for participation in the workplace, and then free core time in kindergarten is linked to participation in activity or Norwegian training. The sum of all these measures and several legislative changes has contributed to Norway's having a significantly strengthened asylum, immigration and integration policy, which increases the possibility of integration. All these changes also reveal that the Workers' Party has been flying a false flag that they stand for restrictive immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3896	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3899	Councillor Horne has set in motion a commendable commitment, I believe, to increase the settlement in Norwegian municipalities. But it's strange to see how she's being countered by the Progress Party's own big business representatives. The representative of Storting Erlend Wiborg has been very clear that he believes that Moss municipality should not settle any refugees in 2015, and the representative of Storing Tor André Johnsen, also from the Progress Party, has encouraged all municipalities to say no to settle. To the newspaper Glamdalen on 19 September this year, the representative Johnsen said that he believes that «the councillor Horne has a different role in the party than himself, and therefore does not believe he is breaking the party line when he encourages him to say no to settle». Then my question is to the representative Keshvari: Does the representative Keshvari agree with his own council that the municipalities have to settle, or does he agree with the co-workers in his own party who believe that the municipalities should not settle?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3906	I am of the opinion that we have local democracy in Norway, and that all parties, with the exception of SV who sometimes want to coerce or change this system, have agreed that it is up to Norwegian municipalities in terms of settlement, and then they must take into account the capacity they have. The question the Labour Party has to ask is: Why do municipalities not want to live, and why was it so that it accumulated with people who all agree that they must be settled because they have been given a residence in Norway? Is that because the municipalities don't have empathy? Is it because they don't want to help these people, or is it simply because a country with 5 million people has certain capacities? Then it is up to local politicians to decide whether they have the capacity, the receiver, the auxiliaries, to take care of the people who are going to be there in a good and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3911	I'm a little unsure if it really was an answer. In the Workers' Party, we also believe that the rate of residence should speed up, so that we have proposed an exceptional integration grant of DKK 100 000 per year at the reception of asylum. But I want to ask for another group sitting on Norwegian asylum recipients. In the last four years, 248 children have disappeared from Norwegian asylum recipients. Earlier this year, Press was out with enough concern – they were afraid that very many of these children end up in criminal environments, being exploited by cynical backers and ports in human trafficking. The red-green government, among other things, two action plans against trafficking in human beings. Now, fortunately, the government comes with a new one – I just want to stress that it's urgent. Because the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, the Himanshu Gulati, said on 10 April this year that you would like to have a review of the procedures for following this up, my question will be: Is this review done? And what's the result?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3922	It is positive that the Workers' Party has also found solutions in this area and made increases in the budget in terms of residence. The reality in 2013 when we took over was that there were 5,500 people who had been accommodated, and who still lived in the reception. In the case of children who disappear from reception, there is a serious problem. It's something that concerns us all, and it's a problem that we have to work hard on. How far you have come with the review that Secretary of State Gulati should have referred to, I am uncertain, so it may be that the representative can ask that question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3932	Although the Progress Party has had to conclude an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the receipt of several quota refugees in order to get the budget into port, the Party has had a clear attitude towards increasing the number of quota refugees to Norway. The Party's programme for the Progress Party states: ‘Instead of taking many refugees into Norway, Norway should contribute more to meeting the costs of refugees in its own neighbourhoods.’ And on the other hand, ‘Inclusion policy considerations should be taken into account in the selection of quota refugees, if any.’. We know that the countries that today accept millions of Syrian refugees say that their capacity is completely detonated. They're asking us to accept more refugees. The same is true of the United Nations and the relief organizations in the area. Does the Progress Party, in principle, mean that we should not at all listen to these requests?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3949	The principle attitude towards the Progress Party is right, namely that we should help people in the neighbourhoods, where we can actually help as many people as possible. The party of progress in government does both, we accept record numbers of Syrian refugees, and we also contribute financially there. But it might be worth recalling the costs of the 1,000 Syrian refugees that we have received this year. For the same sum, we could have helped 26 000 people in reception in the neighbourhoods, or 13 000 people outside reception in the neighbourhoods. When faced with a humanitarian disaster, where millions of people are fleeing, we believe that we should do what we can to help as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3956	This is now the greatest refugee disaster we've seen since World War II. There are millions of desperate people who are on the run. They don't come here to annoy the Progress Party, they come here because they're in a desperate situation, and because the capacity in neighbouring countries is blown up. Those countries are now closing their borders. It sounds like the Progress Party thinks it helps to throw money after all, after the problem there, while the aid organisations are desperately telling us that we have to take more people out of these areas, and that Norway has to go ahead so that other countries do. Is it so that the representative Keshvar thinks he knows the situation on the ground better than the organizations that are there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3965	I am surprised to note that a representative of a party in government in 2011, 2012 and 2013 who did not lift one finger that did not accept a single Syrian refugee either in 2011, 2012 or 2013, is here and has this moral position that the representative shows. It is true that the Progress Party has both accepted refugees from Syria and has provided significant assistance in the neighbourhoods. We have to ask ourselves, when 9 million people are on the run, displaced both internally and in neighbouring countries around, is it wrong to say that we want to do what we can to help as many of those people as possible? It's not like the representative Karin Andersen has suggested that we accept millions of people or hundreds of thousands of people, but for the sum we can accept 1,000 people for here in Norway, we can therefore help 26 times more there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3974	It just has to be inside the head of someone from the Progress Party that it's about helping either here or there. It's about doing both. When aid organisations in these areas are desperate after several European countries take more refugees out of the area, that must be what matters. You help a lot of people there, but you also have to take more out of the area because it's chaotic there. This applies not only to health, but it is also politically a very dangerous area, which requires more countries to relieve. Norway can then set a good example, and the situation is getting worse every day. Nevertheless, the representative of the Progress Party continues to talk about 2011. Now we're talking about 2015 – what does the Progress Party think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3979	I think it is sad that the representative Karin Andersen has not heard my post or my answer now, or earlier when we have had this debate, where I have stressed that it is important to do both. The point is that Norway does both: we accept record Syrian refugees. In number we accept record numbers in European context, there are only a few countries that accept more Syrian quota refugees in terms of numbers. Based on the population, we're also on top of the reception of Syrian refugees. We have not said that we should do either – or, unlike the party of the representative, who did neither – or while they themselves were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3991	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e3994	According to the UN, we are in the middle of the worst refugee stream in 70 years, and Norway has to take part in this challenge. It is a human right to seek and to obtain asylum for those who need protection. It is then important that we ensure the legal certainty of asylum seekers who come to our country. The war situation in Syria and Iraq and in some African countries means that millions of people live in refugee camps in neighbouring countries, as internally displaced persons in their own countries or in displaced areas in several parts of the world. In Norway, we still have too many people with approved residences, who are on asylum reception and waiting for their residence in a municipality. They want to move on for their own, for their families and for their children and contribute to the benefit of society. At the same time, we have another type of challenge, and it is labour immigration from the Schengen area that gives municipalities other challenges. Norway needs labour, yes, but the housing situation for new families from European countries means several new tasks for municipalities in health, school and housing. The Christian People's Party asks the Council of State to focus on this side of immigration policy and to come back to this in a municipal proposition. The Christian People's Party is pleased that in the budgetary agreement we managed to reverse the government's proposal to wind up the host municipality grant for kindergarten for four- and five-year-olds up to the school age of asylum recipients, an important measure for children in an uncertain, unpredictable and demanding situation in life. We also achieved a continuation of the activity offer for children in reception of asylum. Organised activities make everyday life easier. The Christian People's Party and the Left have recently entered into an agreement with the Government on a permanent solution for long-term asylum children in line with the intention of the cooperation agreement to deal with children's best practices and to liberalise those who will be covered by the regulation. The regulation came into force yesterday. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to strengthen the child-disciplinary competence of the foreign administration. For the Christian People's Party, it is now important to point out that asylum seekers who have changed their beliefs, for example: from Islam to Christianity, may experience exclusion, persecution and imprisonment by return. This information shall be taken into account in the evaluation of asylum stays. We are therefore very concerned about ensuring the competence of foreign authorities in Convertible Matters, and the importance of serious opinions from resource personnel in the applicant’s neighbourhood in Norway. It is equally important that updated country information is available. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a general need for means of information and legal assistance for asylum seekers, particularly in the context of the introduction of new rules for long-term children. The Christian People's Party proposed in its alternative state budget, and was given the advantage that 2 million would be granted. to the work of non-governmental organisations. Both socio-economic and humanitarian considerations favour more rapid treatment and early settlement in a municipality. Today, one third of the residents of the reception are people who have been accommodated and who are passive and waiting, even though they have been living in 2014 for more than many years. However, there is cause for concern that several minor asylum seekers will not be able to be accommodated in 2015. The Christian People's Party believes that further measures are needed to stimulate municipalities to move towards a faster settlement and a strengthened introduction system. In our alternative state budget for 2015, we proposed that the reimbursement for the residence of lone minor asylum seekers should have been increased from 80 to 90 pst. Norwegian municipalities live in fewer refugees than the IMDi requests, and fewer than agreed between the state and KS. There is a need for more and more flexible measures and faster pathways for the integration and self-restraint of persons with granted residence. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the government review the Berge Committee's 2011 proposal on greater opportunities for work. It proposes measures for greater independence and better integration of asylum seekers into reception. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the government and the Left to have committed Norway to receiving 500 more quota refugees in 2015. It is positive that people on flight are channelled through the UNHCR system, and the number should be even higher. Norway is taking greater responsibility in international refugee work. The quota for 2015 is now 2 120. The Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to help both where the refugees are staying and channel more like quota refugees through the UN. We also expect refugees from Camp Liberty to receive special attention. The Christian People's Party is satisfied with the budgetary conciliation in this area, and we assume that there should be no restrictions on selection based on the health situation of refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4015	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4018	In the agreement on asylum between the Government and the Christian People's Party and the Left, there is a point that quota refugees should be given the greatest opportunity to be integrated. As a result of that wording, Norway now has, among other things, to over 100 refugees with complex medical needs. This is a shift in Norwegian asylum policy. In the years of the Red-Green Government, Norway chose to follow consistently the recommendations of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. We accepted them the UN asked us to accept. I know the Christian People's Party as a party that sets solidarity and close love high, and that's why I think it's strange that the Christian People's Party is at this point. So my question is, why does the Christian People's Party think this is a good point? And if not Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, will accept those who need us the most, what country will do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4026	This was not a point the Christian People's Party included in the agreement – it was far from it – and we are not happy with that point either. But we've accepted the point of a cooperation agreement that consists of multiple terms. I just finished my post by saying that we assume that there should be no health grounds when we take refugees in. Among the refugees admitted, there are already many with significant health problems, and so the Christian People's Party seems to be. Those who need the most help will get help. As far as human vision is concerned, we share the view that the representative of Håheim says: that we should help those who need it the most, and accept them as the United Nations says we should accept. It's in line with our vision. With regard to that point of the cooperation agreement, it has to be seen in the context of everything else we've managed to get through. We didn't get everything, we didn't achieve everything, but this is always the case in a cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4037	When one hears the post of Tuskedal just after the post of Keshvari, it must well be described as a wonder that there has been an agreement in the field of asylum. Keshvari said, among other things: in its statement that there have been more restrictions with the Christian People's Party and the Left than what the Workers' Party has ever been able to achieve – there is a significant increase in immigration policy, more people are interned, fewer people are allowed, citizenship is more difficult, and there is a much less liberal asylum policy. Does the representative Tuskedal share the description of the strong tightening that Keshvari is presenting here, and is the Christian People's Party pleased to have contributed to such a much less liberal immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4044	First of all, I appreciate it if one considers it a wonder that we get these two parties to cooperate. But I can use the term that someone describes half a glass of water as 'half empty', while others say it's 'half full'. I registered the description from the representative of the Advance Party, and I share views on many of the facts, but the description would probably get different words in my mouth. The continuation of the red-green policy is what is happening to a large extent, but in addition we have increased the number of quota refugees. We have put in place a one-off solution for long-term asylum children, and we have put in place a permanent system that ensures greater emphasis on the situation of children. So we've actually got more breakthroughs than what, among other things. The center part was added to the red-green government. Then you can choose the words you want – I understand that the parties choose words from different starting points. But in the Christian People's Party, a humane, predictable and just asylum policy is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4053	I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for the work they do in this area, but this is not about ways of expressing themselves, it is about facts: either this is a more stringent asylum and refugee policy, or it is a more liberal asylum and refugee policy. Both parts cannot be right at the same time. It's not about words, it's about facts. There are a lot of things that have been tightened up, and I expect that the Christian People's Party is not so happy. What they're happy about, and I've also voted for, is to set up an agreement now for a long-term child. The problem is that the news — about a minute per minute — reports that the number of children who have been sent out in the meantime, while being negotiated, is constantly increasing. Does the Christian People's Party agree that these children who have been sent out this last year should be re-treated according to the new legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4058	What makes it look more stringent and more stringent is that resources have increased. So one has followed the red-green instructions, or the terms, but with increased resources, several have been sent out. It is a very regrettable situation if it has gone beyond legal certainty or other things. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to have a targeted policy. It's a demanding area. Nor are we for what is said – genius and credulity. There shall be immigration regulatory considerations in these cases. It's a demanding area. With regard to the children you mention, we have to look at these issues when the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is done dealing with the judicial aspects of this. Then the Christian People's Party will come back to it in turn and in order, but we take one thing at a time and have no reason to hasten with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4068	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4071	The centre party will pursue an immigration policy that puts human dignity in the focus. Persons seeking asylum and residence in Norway shall have the security to ensure their legal security and that each person is granted his/her rights. Norway shall pursue a consistent and comprehensive refugee and asylum policy, which is humane, legal and equitable, based on international conventions and agreements that Norway has undertaken to follow. This is the basis for the Central Party's immigration policy. I have the impression that immigration policy we are pursuing has broad support among most parties on the Stortinget. After the Christian People's Party and the Left have got their foothold on this government's immigration policy, there is, in all respects, a substantial correlation between the current policy and the policy of the Red-Green Government. This is a good starting point for finding good solutions to difficult challenges. However, it is part of the government's proposals in the 2015 budget that we in the Central Party have reacted to. Some of it has been corrected by the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The central party believes that the proposal to reduce the daily allowance for residents in asylum receptions was poorly justified and will reverse the cut. We have also done the same with the proposal to remove the host municipality grant that ensures 4- and 5-year-olds in asylum receptions free children's playground. It is difficult to live in asylum recipients, I think everyone agrees on that. We must not make it harder and absolutely not let it go out on small kids that more than anyone needs stimulation and opportunity to play and interact with other young people. It is particularly important for language development. The centre party has cut the allocation to expand the detention centre at Trandum. Firstly, there are still vacancies on Trandum, and secondly, we need a debate on which groups we should internalise on that type of closed reception. In particular, I think we need to discuss whether this is the right place to place children's families and minor asylum seekers. With the support of the majority of the population, the government has reduced the funding of child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers. In addition to municipal equity, the government previously covered 100 pst. of the costs. Now the cost coverage is reduced to 80 pst. This has led to difficulties for municipalities that have contributed to the housing of lone minors in financing the measures considered necessary for many in this group. The centre party is afraid that we have reduced the state contribution to the funding of child protection measures for so-called minor asylum seekers so much that we do not have the power to provide them with what they need to support and follow up. Therefore, in its alternative budget under the protection of children in the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion, the Central Party proposes that the State funding aid should be increased again to 90 pst. the costs in addition to municipal ownership. I would also like to mention that the Central Party has strengthened the Ministry of Justice's budget chapter for support for legal aid for non-governmental organisations. We believe that the removal of support from the Norwegian Asylum Seeker Organisation, NOAS, for legal aid should be corrected. NOAS is doing an important job in this area. We all agree that residents of asylum centres who have been accommodated in Norway must be resident in the municipalities as soon as possible. In general, municipalities do a good job of housing and integration, but there are too many people waiting too long to live. In some municipalities it may be on the will to say yes, but most municipalities want to make an effort. However, they are struggling to provide housing and are concerned about whether the integration grant is sufficient to cover the costs. We increased the integration grant a little bit last year, and so is this year, but the Central Party believes it's necessary to raise this, and we've added 200 million. kr for this purpose in our budget for next year. Too long waiting time from stay has been granted and until the refugees are settled, in my opinion, is the main challenge in Norwegian integration policy. Finally, I would like to stress our responsibility for accepting quota refugees. The number of refugees in refugee camps is increasing dramatically, not least in neighbouring countries to Syria. We must take our share of responsibility to ease the pressure, primarily through humanitarian aid and healthcare in the neighbourhoods, but we must also respond positively to the strong requests from the United Nations to receive more quota refugees. It is difficult to understand that we had to reject 123 quota refugees on the grounds that Norway could not provide the necessary health care and follow-up to them. Which country is much better rusted than Norway to take on that task? In addition to spending money to increase the reception of refugees, the Centre's proposal has provided funds to cover the cost of health care. We believe that the government needs to go through the guidelines on the reception of quota refugees and remove restrictions on the reception of refugees on health grounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4094	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4097	By the end of 2006, there were around 740 non-residents in Norway. By the end of 2013, there were about 5,400 – a multiple. The fact that Norway has received many is due to many reasons. However, it is clearly a common challenge — many of which have been involved — to settle quickly enough refugees who have been living in the country. It could be about housing and other things. However, the previous government failed to ask a significant proportion of Norwegian municipalities – mainly the small ones – if they would be included in this fissure layer and accept refugees. Could the representative of the Central Party provide any justification for doing so? It should have nothing to do with the capacity of municipalities, the competence of municipalities, their ability to provide housing – that it was the size in itself that had something to say in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4104	I also sat in parts of the previous period in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, and the first question I asked at the first meeting of the IMFI was: why don't we ask all the municipalities to settle refugees? The answer I then received was that the father of secondary residence was considered so large in these municipalities that they would advise us not to ask all municipalities. At the same time, they were very clear that if the municipalities wanted to settle refugees, they would consider it on a case-by-case basis, although the municipality was not among the municipalities that were on the list of municipalities that were asked to receive the x number each year. It was simply the fear of secondary settlement and the fact that these municipalities were so small that they had trouble building up a good enough receiver, which meant that we were not advised to ask all the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4109	Is that how to understand – and I think that is the first time ever – that the Senterpartiet is on a track where one actually believes that the size of the municipality, and because of the competence and capacity of the municipality, actually limits what offers a municipality can be able to provide?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4115	This was not only done at local level; it was also done in the labour market and at a distance. The residents would like to have someone in the same language group near them, and distance was a criterion that made some municipalities not among those who were asked. So it wasn't just about municipality size, there might have been a lot more about the possibility of finding places of practice for integration when you started work training, and getting a good environment of competence and having faith that the refugee would actually live there over time, so you got to a good integration work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4120	It is tempting to ask the Central Party the same question as I asked the Workers' Party, because the children who are sitting at asylum receptions in Norway are often there for a long time, and they are going to be with this government too because there are so many local authorities who say no anyway. The children living there need to have both an activity offer and a nursery offer. I see that the Central Party has put money into this in its budget, but we have to have a system in place to ensure that these children actually get the right to babysitting, and that they get it from they are one year old, like other Norwegian children, because this is the most important thing we can do for them to succeed in integrating them into Norway. Studies have now been carried out to show how, for example: Half-day in kindergarten affects school outcomes very positively, and if we can start earlier, it's even more positive. Is the Central Party going to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4127	The centre party has invested money to continue the nursery scheme for four- and five-year-olds. We have not yet been able to afford to legislate for all of them. It's all, most important to those who are school starters, that you start to sort it out. It's important for everyone, but it's all, most important for four- and five-year-olds to have a kindergarten: talking to Norwegian-speaking kids and getting language stimulation through it. Now it's like children in reception are a very poor group. Some are there for a short time and will receive a refusal to stay and be sent out. Unfortunately, some are there too long after they have received a residence permit and are to be integrated. We have then given priority to ensuring that four- and five-year-olds are still entitled to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4132	I think the representative, Mr. Greni, should go back and check a little bit how language training and language training for children are best done. You learn language a lot easier when you're smaller. The recent study, on half a day's work space in the kindergarten, shows that the earlier one started, the better it did, so I hope that the Center Party will reconsider. But SV also has a few other suggestions in the setting, among others. One proposal that we want the government to take the initiative in an international action to save people in the Mediterranean, because we know there are many refugees there. Now there are many from Syria traveling via North Africa and going on a very dangerous journey, and there has been an action, under Italy, which has now been removed. SV believes that Norway should contribute, not only to guarding the borders, but also to saving people in distress. What does the Centre Party think about that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4141	There is no doubt that Norway has to contribute – and Norway is contributing strongly to the violent humanitarian disasters we are seeing today. We may not be voting in favour of the proposal that lies there, but there is no doubt that Norway will have to contribute more as this disaster escalates, both outside and by accepting more quota refugees here to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4146	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4149	The left has a positive view of migration. Cultural and economic stimulation through immigration makes society stronger, richer and more diverse. Norway has a moral duty to people persecuted in its home country because of its race, religion, nationality or membership of a social group, and Norway should take greater responsibility in international refugee work. UNHCR reports that 3 million people have fled Syria, in addition to 6.5 million internally displaced. Lebanon and Turkey have received more than one million acids each. It is not enough to assist neighbouring countries; the left has been concerned that Norway has to accept more refugees. We are therefore pleased that in 2015 we will receive 2 120 transfer refugees – 500 more than what was proposed by the government. In comparison, the red-greens received 1,200 in 2011, 1200 in 2012 and 1 120 in 2013. The Labour Party indicates that they proposed an increase in the number of transfer refugees in the budget they submitted after losing the election. However, you do not measure what you might want to do when you no longer sit in position, but what you actually did all the years you put in position: 1 120 in 2013. We get to 2,120 in 2016. The left, however, is pleased that the entire committee has joined our proposal to receive more refugees from the Iraqi refugee camp Camp Liberty. Camp Liberty is a refugee camp for Iranian dissidents who had to leave Camp Ashraf after the camp was attacked by Iraqi soldiers in 2013. There is reason to be concerned about both the living conditions and the safety of the camp. There is a broad political consensus that the refugee camp is entitled to protection and help. Then I have to have a visit to the asylum-children and the decoration for which the Left and Christian People's Party has finally been implemented, which came into force yesterday. The most important thing for the Left has been to make a permanent change for the long-term asylum children, with a greater emphasis on the best interests of their children. Children’s relationship with Norway through kindergarten, school, leisure activities, friends and the community must weigh more heavily than before. It shall do more to give a decisive emphasis to immigration regulation and all decisions shall be child-friendly. We expect this to be followed up in practice and that we will continue to receive more humane treatment for long-term asylum children than has been the case in the past. In the debate in the last few days, it has been pointed out to the Children of Refugees, which was presented by the Red-Greens, where the principles of the Left and Christian People's Party have now been put into effect in the negotiations with the government, are mentioned. It is stated that the grossing up message gave the same leads, and it is suggested that the regulation fixation was almost unnecessary. However, if administrative practices are to be changed, it is necessary to change the law. Therefore, the Left proposed that the bulk message be followed up with a change in the foreign policy. However, the proposal was defeated by the majority and only received the votes of the Left and Christian People's Party. I understand that this hurts the former government, but there is no doubt that it needed a government shift to get a decoration of the legislation for the long-term asylum children. Yesterday, Audun Lighthouse wrote on his blog: ‘The agreement on asylum-seekers must be a serious incentive for the Workers’ Party. Right now, the Ap remains as the most restrictive party on the Stortinget regarding asylum-seekers. Fear of yielding to asylum policy has driven Ap into positions where it is difficult to see the difference between them and Frp, so at the moment Frp is more liberal with regard to children.’ It is a human right to be able to seek asylum for those in need of protection, and as a well-functioning rule of law, we have the responsibility to ensure that asylum applications are treated properly and that we treat people seeking asylum properly. We agree with the government that a quick return is important after a final rejection. When this is not possible, one – as we have now done for the asylum-seekers – must look at the time that has passed and the relationship that has been established, however, suggests that one should remain. Asylum recipients must be driven by the principle of first-day integration, where reception residents will be given the opportunity to work, learn languages and become part of the community. In addition, housing conditions in receptions must reflect the fact that many live in reception for several years and that this also applies to families with children. It is therefore important for the Left to continue to grant grants to host municipalities providing nursery facilities to young people in reception. Children in reception have a particular need for socialisation with other children and could start integration with the acquisition of both cultural, social and linguistic knowledge. Then the transition to school life becomes easier. The left believes, however, that it is unsustainable that so many remain in reception for so long. We need to intensify efforts related to housing. Too many people have their lives waiting too long. If you have stayed, you must also have the opportunity to start a new life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4181	I agree with the representative of Skkelstad that the law governs the foreign administration's practice, but I disagree with the opinion that it requires a regulation change. When we dealt with the child-breeding message, it was one of the core questions, and we argued that it was not necessary, and it also shows the results. The UN report demonstrates the active use of this gross domestic product to change its practice, and the Supreme Court has also used the gross domestic product as a legal source. I want to ask the same question as the Christian People's Party was given to the Left's representative, that is, the matter of the Cooperation Agreement, and I also addressed in my contribution, the fact that quota refugees with the greatest chance of successful integration should be given priority. Why does the Left believe that this is a correct change in Norwegian refugee policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4188	First, I would be allowed to tell the representative Sivertsen that we probably do not agree on the assessment of whether a wholesale message is sufficient, in order to give a regulation to a marshaller as well. A big message is not enough, and there we disagree about the interpretation of the kiss, because it has always been shown that the rule has to exist. Sivertsen then asked – in the follow-up to this and with reference to the question he also asked the representative Tuskedal – whether we are comfortable with the fact that there are other things in the cooperation agreement. Yes, an agreement includes several relationships, which were also Tuskedal. I do not see anything contradictory in this with a clear degree of integration, which is also contained in this agreement, and which is a significant embellishment and liberalisation – which, however, the previous government did not, no matter how much SV fought for it, which has emerged clearly both in today's debate and in the past. I think it's more eye-catching.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4195	We disagree on the understanding of whether a regulation is necessary or not. We believe that we can prove that there has been a change, but I agree with the representative that a regulation in itself is a work order. But now leave it. Let's go back to a point in the agreement. I want to give the representative Skkelstad the opportunity to answer the question one more time. What I'm asking is, why does the Left think it's right to make a change in the policy we've been pursuing with regard to refugees? It is true that the guidelines on – as set out by the Red-Green Government in 2010 – open up to this type of priority, but political practice has been that we have listened to and taken note of the requests made by the High Commissioner. Why does the representative, Mr Skkelstad, think that this is a correct policy change?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4203	I have to say again that we don't have the same understanding of the regulation, I just have to repeat that. I want to refer to the figures that I also referred to instead of the representative Sivertsen: we now have a much higher thank you. There will be far more quota refugees next year than what was done under the previous government, for which Sivertsen was a representative, a representative of the existing one. I think it is remarkable that the Workers' Party is now trying to push on the fact that it is now the Workers' Party that stands for the most restrictive position in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4210	Now we've been accused of both being the most restrictive party and being very liberal, so it's a little bit unclear what we actually are. But this ranking competition of our policies gets the other parties in line. I repeat for the third time the question. What I'm asking is the part of the cooperation agreement that is about the foreign field. Paragraph 24 states that one shall give priority to quota refugees with the greatest chance of successful integration. I argue that there is a shift in Norwegian policy related to refugees, and my question to the Left is: Why does the Left believe that this is a correct shift in Norwegian policy regarding how we should give priority to refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4217	In a cooperation agreement you have to give and take, which was also Tuskedal. I've probably never accused the Labour Party and the representative Sivertsen of being liberal. I think we have a slightly different view of that. «Restrictive» is probably my expression to describe that direction. This is in many ways a quantum leap in relation to what the previous government got. We have done this with the Progress Party, which SV did not succeed with the Workers' Party, and it is clear what it was in here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4224	The left contributes to the government's support for further investment in asylum-seekers who are not allowed to stay in Norway. The reception at Trandum shall be extended, capacity shall be increased. It must either mean that more people are to live in closed reception or that the stay in closed reception is to be extended. The left says in its principal note that the party believes that asylum-seekers must be operated on the basis of the principle of integration from the first day, where people on reception will be given the opportunity to work, to language training and to become part of society. Although asylum seekers who are interned on Trandum have been refused their application, questions are raised about how that form of detention works for families with children and minors. What is the justification for the Left’s support for extending the Trandum detention centre, in the light of the party’s fundamental assessment of the operation of asylum recipients?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4231	A party that negotiates an agreement as part of four is also obliged to look at it, and not least – as I have also mentioned earlier in the debate – it is therefore not these asylum recipients who are supposed to remain in it. I just have to say, as we have also referred to earlier in the debate here, that it is positive that we are getting an improvement in the efficiency of the treatment period, and that today's government is clear. There's also a plus in this, because there's no point sitting as far as possible at Trandum or any other place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4236	I would also like to commend the Left for having stood for an entire year now to set up an agreement for long-term children. That's good. But there are many points in the agreement on which there is reason to ask questions. One is that a lot of children have now been sent out in the meantime, while they have been negotiating. Are they to be re-examined? I think it's interesting to hear what the Left believes about it. The second question is: we heard a representative from the Progress Party who was up here and described a situation in which they had tightened up so to speak all the areas, while the Left now says that this is a quantum leap in the other direction. Now, I guess a quantum leap is really nice, please, little, if we're going to be completely precise, professionally speaking, but both of those descriptions can't be right. Has there been a narrowing, or is it a liberalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4243	Of course, everything is relative to what you see in relation to it. Of course, there is a quantum leap in relation to what SV got into the Workers' Party, there is no doubt about it. It is also an embellishment and a liberalisation with regard to asylum-seekers, and there is absolutely no doubt about it either. The representative then asks Andersen questions about the people who have been sent. There I deal with myself in the same way as the representative Tuskedal. I want to see what's going on in the Control and Constitutional Committee, what's going to be the end of that way there, because I don't want to stand here and promise that we'll do what Andersen wants us to answer. We need to have a careful review of what this will be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4250	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4253	It could be tempting to keep going where we let go of the line change, because it's a little strange to hear that parties have to have the Committee on Control and Constitution of the Storting to decide what they think about a matter of the long-term children, but I'm going to leave it at this point. For SV, it's obvious that when we face the greatest refugee disaster we've had after World War II, we in Norway, like the rich country we are, have to go ahead as a solidarity example in Europe. That is why we have proposed accepting 5 000 more Syrian refugees and 1 120 quota refugees from other areas. We think that's right. In addition, we believe it is necessary for Norway to contribute to the replacement of the Italian action Mare Nostrum, which has rescued refugees in the Mediterranean Sea and is now closed down. Now Norway only participates in Frontex, which is a purely border operation and which does not have the same purpose. Of course, they pick people up when they see them, but there is a need both for Norway to take the initiative in a new action to save people in distress at sea, and also for Norway to take the initiative to renegotiate the Dublin Agreement with a more equal distribution of responsibilities between Dublin countries. For now that system is about to collapse because, among other things. Italy sees that it doesn't work for them. Some of the SV have been critical of the budget submitted are the cuts made in both UDI and UNE, as well as in the legal certainty of asylum seekers. It is true that some asylum seekers who come to the country have had a very long waiting period before being interviewed for the first time, for example. Eritreans, as we know, are a group that is mostly allowed to stay, and that really stays on hold for a very long time because you haven't prioritised the procedure in the system. Nor has it been given priority to the pediatric competence that needs to be put in place at all levels of the foreign administration, in order to ensure that all the considerations to be taken into account in the new legislation on long-term children are taken into account. It is true that the same assessment themes are contained in the Children's big message, but I am pleased with the regulation, but without the competence to make these assessments, this is not good. It is a budget that is not child-friendly, and it is a budget that prioritises the return of legal certainty, and it is extremely critical of that. There are many cuts in many areas of this budget, and one of them is the cuts to kindergarten. Children living on reception need more than other children to be able to go to kindergarten or have activities. Therefore, SV believes that all children in kindergarten who live there must receive this offer. It's also cut in benefits. There is a level that is very low, so that organisations working in this field warn that there may be a risk of a nutritional situation for both parents and children, and also that you cannot afford to buy the necessary medicines. It is very critical to carry out such cuts as the government has done in this area. On integration SV wants a new settlement scheme. It's been too slow. One of the reasons for this is that municipalities point to some problems with housing and funding, and the other is that there have been quite a massive majority around municipal governments, among others. with the party of progress, the right hand, and the workman's party, who has refused to settle. So when the Minister of the Child invites her to do good, her own is going to squander it and say no. It's still like that. If you want integration, you have to let these children go to kindergarten when they're in reception, they have to get free half-day space when they're in residence, and you have to increase job opportunities for women. It is a system that has seemed incredibly good. It has provided an entrance ticket to the labour market for women who have been very far away from being able to get a job. It's a very good start, and SV increases – or doubles – that system, because we think it's the least that needs to be done, and we want to encourage the government to strengthen it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4273	I record that Andersen’s representative is in charge of a new settlement arrangement, and I have a great understanding of that – especially when the Swedish government left over 5,000 people living in reception, and there were many children who had lived here for a long time – four, five, six, seven and eight years – and there was also a situation where they did not ask the municipalities. You can expect the municipalities to raise one hand and say that they have both the capacity, the competence and the one with the other, but at least one has to expect a government, and then I think of the red-green one that crashed before, is that at least you have to ask them as volunteers if they can. Where in the world was SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4279	Now the representative, Mr. Greni, gave an answer as to what the argument is, but I am very pleased that this government has asked all the municipalities. I also know some of the municipalities that are small, and that have been very good at housing, among other things. Vinje kommune. They have been asked, and they have accepted. I think the government can get credit for asking all the municipalities now. But one of the reasons why there has now been a decrease in reception is that in the budget we provided, and as this government took over, there was a sharp increase in the integration grant, because that was what the municipalities needed. SV wants a new housing scheme where you can get an agreement with the municipalities to cover the costs, and that you have a scheme whereby the agreement states that the municipalities are also obliged to take it, as is the case in Denmark. We also want to open up for more self-dwelling. It has worked well where you have had it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4288	There are a number of municipalities, large municipalities, in Norway that have practised self-settlement and have had different experiences, but mainly also good experience with it. When the representative Andersen tries to take in income, it is the previous government who has the credit for the decline in the number of receptions, because the previous government established the planning grant, and at the same time demand that what the current government has set up, both this year and next year — an increase of 300 million. kr in a planning grant – and that it is not good enough, I still wonder if it is such that SV had no impact. When we end up with so many children who have lived to the degrees for so long – while the previous government was sitting – I still wonder if it was such that SV had no impact on that government of asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4295	Well, we had a breakthrough for a lot of things, among other things. to increase the integration grant, as requested by the municipalities. This is one of the important things we got in place, and I think the municipalities are right when they say that there are expenditures related to this that are difficult to deal with, especially in the area of housing. In addition to this, we were able to give priority to, for example: kindergarten for children, which is clearly not a priority for the Right and is one of the most important integration grants. Most of these children have to live in a municipality. To put in place a new housing scheme, that's what SV means. There was no majority for that in the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4300	I am absolutely sure that SV fought hard in the last government to try to get a better impact on a more liberal policy. I am absolutely sure that it was not that it was not tried. I'm not going to refer the blog to the Audun Lightbox again, I've done that twice before today. But it could be interesting to hear, from what also the representative Sivertsen and the Workers' Party were asked about, how Karin Andersen in the light of it looks at this, after having been in government and believed that one got these penetrations, and now sees the entrance of the Light Hill and then is directly tricked. Does the representative Andersen also feel that this was a fraud by the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4307	I do not know exactly what the representative of Skkelstad is now aiming for, but there is clearly a great difference between the views of the SV and the views of the Workers' Party on refugee and asylum policy. There's no doubt about it. We've praised the left for what the left has now received. It must also be remembered that we got a one-off solution when we were in government, which included 1000 children who stayed. There's no small solution. In addition to that, we negotiated the Children's adult education message, and it is a good basis for dealing with issues relating to children, well. But I agree with the Left that once the practice of foreign management has evolved in the strict direction it has done, a regulatory change is needed to bring about the necessary changes to take better account of the long-term children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4314	I agree that it was necessary to put in place a one-off solution. That's good. We also agree that the regulation needs to be in place in order to follow up the message. It's not enough with a message. But I asked Andersen a question, where the answer is still hanging in the air: how does Andersen's representative feel that it is to have been tricked into a very essential question about the asylum-children? Is it okay now, one year later?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4319	If that's the letter of assignment to the 2013 Police Directorate we're talking about now – if that's what the representative is asking for – I can confirm that we haven't heard anything about making changes to it. We would be strongly opposed to it if we had heard anything about it. It is not in line with what was agreed in the government when we dealt with the big message Children on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4324	I hear what Andersen's representative says. She said that it was not in line with what it was agreed on. But I still wonder: was SV tricked, as the letter of assignment was clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4329	Here we simply have to go in and check what has happened. From what I know now, it has not been informed about this to us. It's also known in the media. But I think perhaps the representative of Skkelstad should think about that – at least when you have heard the posts here in the room today – there is no doubt that the government option that Skkelstad now supports is a government option that is loud and clear, with the Progress Party, saying that they want a much stronger tightening than what is now. They even add out the consensus with the Left as a very powerful tightening, while the speakers who have been up here from the red-green parties have a completely different approach to this. So maybe Skelstad would be wondering if he could do more in a different constellation than he's in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4337	I will first be allowed to refer to the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left and believe it is a very well-balanced budget in this area as well. It is an important political goal for the government to ensure that we have an effective and high-quality foreign administration, which ensures an effective, comprehensive and secure asylum chain. The draft budget and the agreement in Stortinget build well under this ambition. In the field of foreigners, three main objectives have been identified: fewer asylum seekers without protection, faster return of former asylum seekers and faster identification. Unfortunately, many people who live in Norway are illegal. It is important to have a close link in asylum policy, so that persons who do not have a need for protection are returned as soon as possible after rejection and those who are allowed to stay are integrated as quickly as possible. On 31 October 2013, just after the government change, there were 5,634 persons without a legal stay in the reception of asylum. On 31 October 2014, after a year of new government, there were 3,727 persons without a legal residence at the reception of asylum. So it's going to decrease by 1,907 people or 34 pst. In 2015, a significant increase of 82.5 million was provided to the police. kr to increase the number of shipments. In total, more than 10 000 people are scheduled to be returned in 2015. However, I would like to stress that it is not just money that contributes to the efficiency of the foreign administration. UDI, PU and UNE set in motion in the spring a great deal of cooperation to streamline the handling of so-called simple Dublin cases. Already now we see an incredibly good result of that cooperation. The case-handling time has decreased from about 175 days to about 175 days. 55 days. There is a reduced processing time of almost 70 pst. By contrast, it frees 500 places in reception facilities and reduces the number of people living in Norway for 4 months. 50 pst. fewer applicants disappear during the application procedure. I am very pleased with the efforts and cooperation with UDI, UNE and PU in this matter. It shows in practice that it is possible to dissolve in old inherited structures and find solutions jointly. The government has proposed 90 new closed reception points on Trandum in addition to the establishment of a new exit centre on Gardermoen. I am pleased that these measures are now widely supported in the Storting. One of the main challenges we face in the field of foreign affairs is the challenges of establishing the right identity. This is partly because some people deliberately and actively want not to clarify their own identity and mislead the foreign agencies, and partly because some asylum seekers come from countries where no satisfactory ID is issued, or because they have fled and have no ID papers. In particular, in the former cases, a substantial effort is made by the police to clarify the correct identity, which is a prerequisite for the proper handling of the application and for the return if residence is not granted. Therefore, the government has proposed strengthening the ID work and capacity of police investigation and foreign station work and competence in the field of ID. While it is important for the government to ensure that persons who do not have a legal residence in Norway are returned, it is also important to ensure that those who need protection receive it. The government proposes to continue the current quota refugees scheme where 1 000 seats were earmarked for Syrian refugees for a total quota of about 1 000. 1 700. The refugee disaster in Syria is of enormous dimensions, and very many people are in a terribly difficult situation. During the budget negotiations in Stortinget, the number of quota refugees has increased by a further 500 places. Compared to other European countries, Norway assumes a great responsibility for refugees in the region. At the same time, I would like to recall the importance of providing humanitarian aid in the neighbourhoods. Norway also contributes well. Then I would like to add that there has been a discussion, especially in part of the line changes, where one tries to present it as if the agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties must be either restraints or embellishments. I do not agree with that, because the agreement covers both. In some areas, restrictions have been introduced; in others, decorations have been provided. That is the point of this kind of agreement, so that all the parties in such an agreement will have an impact on the most important part of their policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4364	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4367	The Storting asked the Government in a majority decision to explain how Norway can assist neighbouring countries such as Lebanon and Jordan in managing the refugee flow from Syria, as well as an assessment of how many Syrian refugees Norway can receive in 2014 and 2015. In the government's budget proposal, there is little room for responding to the Storting's request. What we find is an estimation of various issues related to the case and not an assessment of how many we can accept. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State believes that he can accept the request from Stortinget. I believe that this cannot be done by the Council of State. I would therefore like to give the Council the opportunity to respond to the request now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4372	It has been the government's intention to respond to that decision by means of the budget proposal, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and we believe that what emerges there contributes to that presentation. As for the relationship with how many could have been accepted in 2014, after I was informed, it has been difficult for the United Nations to promote more things than they have done, which has also been a contribution to our response in the 2015 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4377	I noticed the answer, and I thank you for a clear answer. And then I can tell you that I disagree with that assessment, but we get to come back to that. In a cord change in this hall last year, approx. At that time, the Council of State replied on the immigration and asylum policy he was pursuing: ‘The concrete measures that this government will take together with the Christian People’s Party and the Left will become clear when those negotiations are finally concluded’. Recently, some people claim that the immigration policy to be pursued by Norway has created more confusion, and yesterday we received a new regulation on the long-term asylum children and their parents, which was also addressed by the Council of State. He problemated that it was both a liberalisation and a tightening. Can the Council of States clarify to us: on what points is this a clear liberalisation, and on what points is this regulation a clear tightening of policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4387	I think it must be due to a misunderstanding, because when I talk about the agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Left and the government parties, I am talking about the follow-up to the Nydalen agreement on asylum and immigration policy in general. There are both points that are intrusive and other points that are decorative. The regulation we agreed on on Friday, which came into force on Monday, is part of the agreement that is attractive. The purpose of this amendment has been to provide a solution for long-term children, and then it will provide for predictable management and treatment of the matters where children have been in the country for a very long time, where one to a greater extent than today – apologies – than last week focuses on the consideration of the children in the concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4392	The President will state that the regulatory time for today's meeting is over, but the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4397	Yesterday the new regulation entered into force, following an agreement negotiated between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. We are very pleased about that. We appreciate that this is a permanent arrangement that we can deal with in the future. But we know that approx. 200 long-term asylum children now live in the country, and it is possible that they live in a family where there is a legitimate decision that they should leave the country. Therefore, the police can pick them up at short notice and drive them out in a legal manner, but thus they will not try their case against the new agreement that came into force yesterday. They must then ask for a desire for change, and we know that it is important to have a high level of case law in this area. Will there automatically be a reassessment of these, or will they have to ask for it? It's to be able to give advice I'm wondering about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4402	With this new regulation, non-returnees will be subject to the provisions of the regulation and to ordinary procedures when returns are to be carried out. This means that UNE will carry out an assessment of it in an ordinary way – as they have done with returns under the previous legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4412	Speakers of the Christian People's Party and the Left are very pleased with the agreement concluded with the government on the legislation for long-term children. The new regulation will be a strong liberalisation in relation to today's legislation, and much more long-term young people will be said to be. We know that there have never been so many long-term children from Norway as after the blue-blue government took over and ruled on the basis of the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Policy in the last year has been based on the temporary solution that they have agreed on. It has not worked after the intention. Now there is a lasting solution in place, which ensures a stronger emphasis on the best of children. What is the degree of liberalisation – compared to current legislation – that the Council of State considers that there has been an agreement? Can it be, for example, is the proportion of long-term children and their families who will be given a residence in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4421	That's an answer it's absolutely impossible to give. This is because the foreign administration deals with individual matters and that means that the new legislation will apply to individual cases. But there is no doubt about what is the intention of this new legislation and the agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties. That is why we also agree that this legislation should be evaluated after one year, to see if that intention has been followed up or not. When the representative, Mr. Greni, says that the one-off solution or the previous solution or the temporary solution, as she called it, has not worked as intended, I am a little uncertain about what the representative thinks of it, because I believe it certainly has. This has been a work that has been going on for a long time. The first and most important thing was to put the one-time solution in place. It came into force on 1 July 2014 and then we have a new regulation on long-term children, which is to be the permanent solution, and which came into force yesterday. So I am a little uncertain about what the representative refers to when she says that there is some solution that has not worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4429	The liberalisation of the legislation on asylum-seekers was gratifying, including the introduction of the regulation, which is in many ways a continuation of the intention in the Nydalen, with which we are also satisfied. Not least, it was gratifying that we got this in place so quickly. But does the Minister of Justice agree that this – especially the point concerning the long-term asylum children – is a clear decoration in relation to the previous legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4436	As I said in my answer to the previous question, it is difficult to quantify this, but the intention behind the change is that this should be an embellishment for long-term children and a lasting solution for long-term children, where children's interests are more focused than last week, according to what the representative Skelstad himself said in his post in the hall. It is difficult for a State Council, which does not deal with individual cases in either UDI or UNE, to quantify the degree of liberalisation. That is why I am also very pleased that, during the negotiations on Friday, we also agreed that this legislation should be evaluated after one year, so that we can be sure that the intention behind the legislation has been followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4443	SV wants the issues of the children that have now been sent to be dealt with under the new legislation and that everyone is also given information about the one-off solution, because they have not received it because money for information has been removed. However, if the assessments to be made now under the new legislation are to be good, there must be sufficient child-disciplinary competence in the management of foreigners. There is competence in how children are affected by war and armed conflict, and how children are affected by being on the run and living under unsafe conditions for a long time. Such competence is lacking in both UNE and UDI. If the assessments to be made now under the new regulation are to be good, this must be done in place. When will the Council of State ensure that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4448	Only in the case of SV's starting point that a relationship was re-issued to new legislation, I would like to say that all those who have been sent out of the country have been sent out because they do not have a legal residence in Norway. They have been sent out following lawful administrative decisions, and no one has been sent out of the country in violation of the legislation in force. I think it's important to clarify it. Of course, it is a prerequisite for taking the right decisions when it comes to childcare skills. Here I am in line with Andersen's representative. That is why we have also addressed the issue in the entry into force circular to the regulation, which was sent out together with the regulation, which emphasises that that competence should also be ensured in the management of foreigners.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4455	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4458	Like the Minister of Justice, I would like to thank both the Christian People's Party and the Left for a good budgetary cooperation and agreement, which means that we have a strength in the work that the government is going to do in this important field. The representative Sivertsen started his speech by saying that the debate is often about how many we are going to receive, or how many we are going to settle. But this debate is also about what we do with integration and about settling the individual refugee out in the municipalities. Integration policy must aim to allow immigrants to use their resources. We will require those who have been given residence in Norway to participate and contribute to the community. The key to that work is language, education and participation in the labour market. Through good introduction programmes and Norwegian training, newcomers receive basic qualification to make their way further into working life shorter. The number we got from the SSB shows that there's been an increase. We're moving in the right direction, but we still have a way to go. There are too many differences between municipalities, and it is important that municipalities learn from each other and draw experience from the municipalities that succeed in this work. We also have to be clear about our requirements, so that more people go to work or education, and then we have to get more flexibility in the arrangements. It is important that we cooperate with voluntary organisations and that municipalities see the important integration work that volunteers participate with every single day also in the municipalities. The government also wants to evaluate the introduction programme and Norwegian training in order to gain more knowledge of how to improve the organisation of this scheme in the future. It is also worrying that very many immigrants and those who come to family reunification, and especially women, are difficult to get into work and to provide training in Norwegian. Many today are out of the labour market and are also outside of today's schemes. As the representative Karin Andersen also pointed out: Job opportunities are an important measure for these women, whom we need to get out of work, and they have so far produced good results. I am pleased that we have now put in place the system of free core time in kindergarten, and that there has been an increase in it. This has helped to increase the number of children with a minority background in kindergarten. This has helped parents to have greater confidence in kindergarten and to see the benefit of children going to kindergarten. About 72 pst. of all four- and five-year-olds with a minority background are now in kindergarten. I am pleased that the activity obligation system was introduced from the fall of the year. It's important to get your parents into work or activity. The government aims at introducing free core time in kindergartens for four- and five-year-olds throughout the country for low-income families during August next year. It is an important area of efforts to combat poverty. We're going to further develop this work. The participation of parents in working and social life is important for children. We need to base our policies on knowledge. It has now been ten years since the last time that a living conditions survey on immigrants was carried out. Both the number and composition of immigrants have changed in recent years. Therefore, the government will entrust the SSB with the task of carrying out a new living conditions survey. In 2015, the government will strengthen the fight against coerciveness and gender mutilation. The recent reports we have received this year show that this is an important work that we must not forget. That is why I am pleased that the government has strengthened the housing and support provision for people over 18 years of age who are subject to forced marriage, and we need to continue this work. We must also prevent radicalisation and violent extremism, which, for my part, is an important work. The prevention work – having research and prevention – in the municipalities must be worked together with municipalities to achieve good integration and help parents who are concerned about their children. There has been a record settlement in the municipalities. The municipalities have been benevolent. They have agreed to settle for more – 17 pst. more than last year. So it's going to be circa. 5,200 with a residence permit on receipt. It is important that this work is also intensified in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4491	The government's draft budget has been criticised for a lack of social profile. One of the proposals that produced strong responses was to cut out the kindergarten offer to four- and five-year-olds in receptions. The deputy head of the Education Association, Steffen Handal, said that the cut was shameful and heartbroken, and the children's representative Anne Lindboe said this would cause them a worse mental health, poorer language development, and they would be less integrated. I know this is not on the Council's budget, but the Council of State spoke so nicely about kindergartens and that the key to integration is language, so I have to ask her: does she think that this cutting proposal would lead to better or worse integration of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4500	As Minister of Integration, my main task has been to settle the refugees who have been legally resident, as soon as possible outside the municipalities. There have been several people here today too, and we know that this is a big challenge. Too many people have waited too long. We know that very many of these people who have been sitting for a long time and waiting, who are going to start their lives in the municipalities, are children. It's out there in the municipalities they're going to start their lives, to start in kindergarten, to start school, to learn language. We need to focus on giving kindergarten and free core time to those who have been accommodated and who are going to the municipalities. It's my main concern. I am also very pleased that our budget-mates here at Stortinget have ensured that the nursery allowance for the receptions is back in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4505	There is no contradiction between giving a decent offer to the children sitting on reception, and at the same time continuing to increase the rate of residence. Then I record that the Council of State is pleased that the intermediate parties have reversed the cut as her own government proposed – so am I. Then I want to ask about the settlement. The working party has proposed more than a doubling of the integration grant. The government parties today are voting against our proposal for an extraordinary grant in order to settle those who have lived the longest on the receptions. Is there any indication that the government is satisfied with the rate of residence, or does the Council of State also want new measures to increase the rate of residence in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4512	So next year, the introduction money will cover approx. 90 pst. of the costs incurred by municipalities. That is, we have increased the integration grant by 250 million. NOK plus 50 million. kr for next year. We have also increased support for those who have been seated the longest. Those who have been seated the longest are actually those who have the challenges that make them the most difficult to settle in. That's why we've also increased that support so that it matches what municipalities get today for those who have extra challenges. I am pleased that we have increased the integration grant. At the same time, I see that we still have a way to go. When I'm out talking to the municipalities, it's very clear that it's getting housing in place and getting more of the costs of integration, which is the biggest challenge the municipalities have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4520	The settlement is slow, and there is a cross-political consensus that we have to do something about it, even though there are more people living in 2014 than before. I'm happy with what the council says, that it should be knowledge-based what we're doing. I asked the Workers' Party earlier in a row if they had experience with what the municipalities reported as bottlenecks. The answer was well, simply said, housing. Now the Council of State is to be commended for herself calling municipalities, I have heard, and that is very good. What is the experience of the Council of State as to what municipalities provide as a reason for not settling? Is there a shortage of housing, is there a shortage of jobs, is there too much funding? What does an experience have in this regard, so that one in the municipal proposition that comes in ours can get a more targeted policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4525	In the last few months I have had a meeting with approx. 50 rapporteurs around the country to ask them the question: what is it going to do to get a faster settlement, and what is it going to do to allow municipalities to receive more? What's going on in those meetings has been that they're struggling to get housing, and they're struggling to cover the costs they have for the individual. They also see that some of these refugees need longer time to learn the language to get to work, and some people need shorter time. That is why they also want flexibility in that system. But then there are also several municipalities that say that it is very unpredictable when they don't know how many there are coming to family reunification. They may have agreed to accept 10, and then it's going to be 20, so they don't know how many people are going to reunite. It's a challenge when we know that you're going to have a home, you're going to have a kindergarten, and you're going to have a school. That is why it has been important for me this autumn to listen to the municipalities and talk to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4530	The settlement of lone minor asylum seekers is demanding for municipalities. This is a vulnerable group where many are struggling with mental distress. The scheme of specific support for child protection measures for lone minors contributed to the resettlement of more people in this group. Many municipalities have, through the grant scheme, taken action that has provided the basis for good follow-up and integration into the community. Child protection measures for single minors are financed by a municipal proportion, and the top level funding was proposed last year, so municipalities have to contribute a larger proportion themselves. What is the experience with the changes made in the funding of child protection measures for single minor asylum seekers? Is the settlement of this group as good as before it was cut into the scheme and has the measures taken by the municipalities targeted at this group changed in some way?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4537	I understand the question from the representative, Mr. Greni, but it is a little too early to say what the experiences of the municipalities have done. We have seen that it is a challenge to have single asylum seekers resident, but at the same time I believe that the municipalities have not come out worse this year, because the government increased the special grant for the housing of single minors. It's reinforced by 120 million. NOK, so that the municipalities actually got an increase of 10 pst. on the part of the parties. I believe that not all children need child protection services in the municipalities. There are many municipalities that are able to settle and are able to find an offer for the lone asylum seekers who are not a child protection measure. Knowing that child protection measures are expensive measures, we also need to encourage municipalities to offer them a good deal, and many municipalities do, but it does not always have to be a child protection service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4542	It could be tempting to follow up on this, because it is little to save on having bad measures for lone minor asylum seekers. There are few who are so alone and need as close a follow-up as they are, so that things will not go wrong. I want to challenge the Council of State on this with Jobjeansen, because Jobjeansen has worked very well. What we know is that many immigrant women who come here are quite far away from work. They come from traditions where women do not normally work, and many of them also have very poor language skills in advance. Job opportunities have been developed to actually be able to visit these women at home, encourage them and get them out of work. It is with great wonder that we have seen that the government and the Council of State have not increased their efforts in this area – a very successful labour-oriented action that both promotes integration, which is an incredibly important part of the working line and which works. What is the reason why the government won't bet any more?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4551	The government is continuing to invest in Jobjesen, which we have in 2014, until 2015. I agree with the representative that this is a good measure, but there are also several other measures in this area: Global Future, and there is good cooperation with non-governmental organisations and volunteering, which operate mentoring schemes to get women out of work. I am very happy that more and more people are participating in the introduction program. A growing number of women participate in this, providing a basis for languages that make it easier to get into work. Then I am of the opinion that the action that the government is now taking on temporary employment will also be a strength for more women to try out in the workplace. There's one group that worries me. It's those people who don't get into the introduction program that I want to work on to strengthen the women we can't get into this program.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4565	I want to start with a clarification, and it is that the Workers' Party supports the SV's proposal that children in reception facilities should also have the right to go to kindergarten. It was also included in the list I presented in the previous debate. For my part, this is the third budget debate today, and a striking feature of all the three debates we have had today is that the government parties seem more concerned with criticising the previous government and discussing what the situation was like at the time than discussing the challenges we are facing today. So this has been striking in the other debates, but particularly striking in the very debate we have now. It may not be so strange, because this debate has evolved more and more into a seminar – not only on what kind of label the parties of government and the Christian People's Party and the Left will put on the policies of the Workers' Party, but also on whether their own policies are a tightening, liberalisation or both. It varies according to which of the four parts speak, and we've also seen variations within the same party. The truth is that the government, together with its cooperation parties, is essentially continuing the red-green immigration policy they like to criticise. However, there are some important exceptions here, including: that today’s government will give priority to the most easily integrated quota refugees at the expense of the most vulnerable refugees. I have also recorded that in relation to the issue of quota refugees, attempts have been made here in the Chamber to present it as if the Workers' Party is receiving more quota refugees. It's completely wrong. In our plan for next year, we have 500 more quota refugees. It is also worth noting that in the 2014 budget, the bulk of the population cut 500 quota refugees from the budget provided by the red-green government. In the spring, when the Workers' Party proposed a separate Syria billion with greater efforts in Syria's neighbourhoods, plus being able to receive more quota refugees in Norway, the bulk of the population also voted down. So, when SV in our promoted Document 8 proposal to accept several Syrian refugees, it ended up that the majority of the population made a request decision, asking the government to come back with an assessment of how many more quota refugees from Syria Norway could accept. The idea behind this was that we could then have a common starting point for these debates in the future – instead of adjusting the rate of quota refugees up and down slightly according to how the atmosphere is in the hall at all times, one could have a slightly more common approach for the future. It would give a completely different predictability. I had actually expected the government to follow up, and when the Minister of Justice here says that they have accepted that proposal by proposing next year in the draft budget zero more quota refugees from Syria, I will consider it a provocation. The Stortinget must come back to this at a later stage. So to the storytelling also in another area: our government settled in the order of 30,000 refugees in the last four years we had the government power. The housing policy is built on stone, and I really want with all my heart that councillor Horne will succeed in settling even more. We fully agree that all municipalities should be asked to accept refugees. I think it is completely unnecessary to make this a political conflict that does not exist. For many small municipalities, immigrants and refugees can be an opportunity to increase the population and give impetus to new growth. On the other hand, we are critical that the government has increased the proportion of lone minor asylum seekers. The creation of a meagre municipal economy for next year, we believe, will make it more difficult to settle refugees than it would otherwise have been. We call for a more offensive integration policy. Last but not least: the world now sees a precarious refugee situation. 51 million people are fleeing. We need more and better answers to the situation than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4588	Malala is a Pakistani student and blogger from the Swat district. She has worked for children's rights and girls' right to education. When she was eleven years old, she began writing a journal anonymously for the BBC's edition on Urdu. In her blog, she told about life under the Taliban and was critical of the movement. On October 9, 2012, she was shot in the head. Nearly two years later, she receives the peace prize. Her efforts to strengthen girls' right to independence are a struggle that is only in the start-up phase. When we sit in the city hall tomorrow, we should all reflect on how we can help girls with the same or similar background that Malala can grow up as strong and independent women. That is precisely why I am pleased that the government has a special focus on girls and women in its integration work. When the government from the autumn of 2015 introduces free core time in kindergarten for four- and five-year-olds throughout the country for low-income families, this can be a particularly good and accurate measure for women with a minority background. When we also combine this with duty of activity, we give a clear signal that this should be a solution where both parties, both the public and the parents themselves, have a common responsibility for and aim for integration. Staying in kindergarten will provide the foundation that prevents children from falling out of school already in the first class, and the obligation of activity will give women in particular a commitment, but also a motivation to get out of work. In connection with my previous job, I have met many girls with tragic fates. No matter whether I was in Vietnam or in Mozambique, there was one common denominator that went on again. When I asked the girls what was the one event in their lives that had affected things most in the negative direction, most answered the following: I did not complete the school. They got married and had a baby too soon. This meant that they never got out of work. They were promised that others would help them. We now have a great opportunity to give many girls and women a new start in life here in Norway. We do this best through targeted measures for the introduction and integration of Norwegian society. Let me mention some points from the budget. We link free core time in kindergarten to duty of activity. It'll get more women working. We are strengthening the work against coercion and sexual mutilation. We're doing the bets of the times on housing, so that people can quickly start their new life and live in their own homes. It is also an important welfare measure. We are strengthening the efforts of several organisations that are working precisely with the integration and strengthening of women's rights and futures, in particular with a focus on language and entry into the labour market. Let me also link some general reflections to work on diversity and integration. I think we're at a turning point in Norway now. The minorities are not the same. The immigrant who landed at Fornebu in 1972 is very different from the immigrant who lands at the Gardermoen tonight. Through this budget, we focus our efforts on individuals and not on individual groups. We make sure that the little girl who still lives on asylum receptions, even long after she has been allowed to stay, can get a place to live. She can make friends of her own age, start school and start the journey to become an independent and strong woman. This budget ensures that the same girl’s mother can get a new start in life, where through language training she finds the way to work and can earn her first money ever. This budget also ensures that, by strengthening the work against coercion, we ensure that girls who are on their way at full speed to their own future do not get a rough and brutal stop on that journey. Finally, I have heard this saying many times: If you train a boy, you have trained a boy, but if you train a girl, you train an entire village. Perhaps it is that if a woman is integrated into Norwegian society, maybe the whole family has become too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4605	One of our major and important projects is to create a more inclusive Norway. It's about giving individuals more opportunities, and it's about making us richer as a community. The multicultural society offers us great opportunities if we choose to exploit it and pursue an active policy of integration. The Labour Party believes that immigration into Norway has been fundamentally positive, and we believe that a strong welfare state contributes to the best integration. Work gives individual economic autonomy and is the main means of combating poverty, equalising social differences and achieving equality. We know that the cash support is not working. Despite this, the government chooses to extend a cash support that, with surgical precision, leads to many minority women not in work, and does not send their kids to kindergarten. It is a policy for poorer integration. Another proposal made by the government, which in many ways was alarming, was to propose a cut in the kindergarten offer to four- and five-year-olds in receptions. Children's Ombudsman Anne Lindboe said it so aptly: ‘The consequences are that many of these children lose their nursery space. It will cause them to suffer from poor mental health, poorer language development and poorer integration.’ I'm glad it's reversed. We in the Labour Party have also done so in our alternative budgets. So we know that many are also excluded from the labour market, and that many are still discriminated against. Unfortunately, prejudice and everyday racism live well in 2014. In recent days, there has been a lot of attention on the subject of discrimination in the workplace. In the VG on Sunday we could read about Sonja Alexandra, now called Lyng to last name, who changed his name in fear of not getting a job. She said the following to the VG: “I changed my name because I felt unsure whether I wanted to enter the labour market because of my foreign name.” Equal opportunities and discrimination agencies Sunniva Ørstavik said in the same article that there are 25 pst. less likely to be called for an interview if your name is heard abroad, and encourages anyone who experiences discrimination to contact the Ombudsman. I am pleased that we have a gender equality and discrimination agency, and I note that we have a long way to go in the fight against everyday racism and prejudice. We all have a responsibility for how we talk about multicultural society. Rapid housing is important for good integration and for the ability of individuals to participate fully in Norwegian society. I would like to say that it is good that the municipalities now settle for more people, but it is still going too slowly. The working party has therefore proposed to increase the integration grant by DKK 100000 per long-term resident in order to reduce the number of long-term receipts. So, to conclude, the urban area effort has been very important in carrying out the necessary upgrades of residential areas with major social and environmental challenges. Among other things, the bets are: focus on language training, free core time in kindergarten, activity school, area lift, safety and reputation. The bet has very good results and has very positive ring-effects. For us it is therefore incomprehensible that for the second consecutive year there is a huge cut in the area bet. This is a little bit of money in the big context, but it means a lot when the effort is made. The working party will reverse the cuts and will also promote proposals to extend and strengthen the area operations. For us, these efforts are an important tool for realising our vision of a country with little differences and great opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4630	We have received a government that, as late as last autumn, meant that Norway should establish and operate asylum-seekers in Africa and Asia. Refugees travelling to their home Member State shall lose their residence permit. Marriage is not to be used as a basis for immigration to Norway. Immigrants must work and live in Norway for at least 10 years before they can have citizenship. Only Norwegian citizens shall be members of the public interest. The foreign labour force shall pay taxes to a separate national social security account and draw on it if they become ill or disabled, and if that account is exhausted, they shall leave the country. And then maybe the point that's most interesting for the Christian People's Party in particular, namely the liquidation of grants to religious communities. It will therefore be interesting to see developments in these areas. We have received the windiest government of the time, a government that sits with the calculator in its hands in all policy areas, including immigration and integration. The representatives of the Progress Party have for years produced our new countrymen as cellar rings, which are only to be supplied by the welfare council. Today, we have a government that wants asylum seekers to have only one appeal and no possibility of resumption. Only Norwegian citizens shall be granted the possibility of family residence in Norway from abroad. For the Workers' Party, it is important and proper to pursue a consistent and comprehensive refugee and asylum policy, which is humane, legal, fair, and with respect for international conventions and agreements to which Norway has committed itself. We want a tolerant society, where everyone has the same rights, duties and opportunities regardless of background, gender and religious affiliation. While the Labour Party had the power, we did very much to improve the integration of our new countrymen. We reintroduced Norwegian training for asylum seekers and increased the right and obligation to Norwegian training from 300 to 600 hours. During the period 2004–2014, we increased the integration grant to the municipalities by about 600 million. kr. We increased the effort for women and children and also got a permanent job opportunity, which was set up to help more women in work. Free core time in kindergartens in certain areas was introduced as early as 2006. We also made it easier for children to get Norwegian citizenship. We strengthened the work against coercion by 70 million. already in 2007 and 2008 and at the same time presented a new action plan. The funds are later passed on every year. Action against coercion was an important part of our work against violence in close relations. Having minority counselors in schools with a high proportion of students with a minority background was important to us. We have consistently pursued a predictable and consistent asylum policy. We've brought the number of asylum arrivals down to a manageable level. In particular, the number of asylum seekers without a need for protection has decreased. At the same time, the length of proceedings was significantly reduced. Both voluntary and coercive returns increased markedly. In particular, it concerns the return of criminal asylum seekers who have been rejected. It is interesting to note that the Progress Party at this moment has broken the negotiations with the City Council on next year's budget here in Oslo. The main issue of the dispute is whether to accept new refugees. The party of progress says stop. It is therefore very special to observe that position politicians here at Stortinget get their ambitious plans settled down a few hundred meters away, at the City Hall. I therefore recommend to the Council of State and position politicians to consult their party traps around the municipality of Norway, as it is actually they who are going to settle. My point is that some attitudes and values hardly change with government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4650	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4653	I would like to begin by referring to Karin Andersen in this debate. In the reply she said that there is a great difference between the SVs and the Labour Party's immigration and integration policies. Today, we can well establish that there is indeed a great difference between the Workers' Party and all the other parties here in immigration policy. When Eirik Sivertsen in his post talks about morals, I think we can say that the Workers' Party is left on the moral pinnacle after today's debate. What does the Labour Party really think about the amendment of the regulation for long-term asylum children, which was presented yesterday? Is it good, or is it bad? Today I register that Eirik Sivertsen says to NTB: ‘The working party is engaged in a fair, legal and consistent asylum policy. These are families who do not have the right to protection in Norway and who live in the country illegally. The best interests of children shall be taken into account, but we cannot have a system in which we reward those who have for a long time failed to broadcast, staying in Norway.’ This was also a major debate in 2012. Then Martin Kolberg said on March 13: ‘We see several examples that are demanding to explain from a humanistic and human point of view.’ He was then Parliamentary Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party. A number of big business representatives then talked about the policy being too strict and too little fair. One of them, Stine Renate Håheim of the Workers' Party – she sits in the hall – then said: ‘The children have not chosen their own destiny. They are not responsible for that situation. I believe that, as political authorities, we must take responsibility for the needs of children.’ She was asked what ‘concrete should happen to the kids who are in danger of being sent out’. ‘The best thing would be to put these matters on hold,’ said the representative Håheim. I want to add that I fully agree with what Mr. Stine Renate Håheim said here. Clearly, there is a great distance within the Labour Party on the asylum and refugee policy to be pursued, and not least the emphasis to be placed on the best interests of children. I also have to say in this debate that in 2007 I quickly collected over 1,000 signatures, because a family father who was married to a Norwegian woman – and they had children in common – had been injured to work without a work permit, but had received a tax card, and was then sent out. The 1,000 signatures would not receive Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. The family was then awakened at night, and the father was quite brutally sent out. One must be able to say that it is the gorilla fraction in the Workers' Party that is winning out in the handling of children. In the case of the child-hidden alert: it is not the case that a child-hidden message provides laws and regulations. That was never the result. Finally, in the course of two civil budgets, we almost doubled the number of quota refugees. There is a significant difference between the Working Party and the others. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4682	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4685	During the debate, an attempt has been made to create the impression that there is great confusion about what is liberalisation and what is restriction. Much of this confusion is because those who have expressed this have not understood what you are talking about. When we talk about the asylum agreement, we are not talking about the agreement we agreed on on Friday alone. We are talking about the concrete agreement of the Nydalen last year, which is about immigration, asylum and integration. In that agreement there are a number of points, such as the 24-year age limit, increased maintenance requirements, etc. – which I also had in my first post – which is clear limitations. There are also two points in the agreement that are not restrictive. One is the one-time solution that has already been implemented this year. The second point, which is not about tightening up, is the new regulation on long-term children, which is now in place. The reason why a solution had to be found at all with long-term children, and that we accepted it in the Progress Party, is that there are two reasons why children have been in Norway for a long time. One reason is that the parents have refused to comply with Norwegian law, they have refused to leave the country, despite the fact that they have been refused their application. They've been here illegally for a long time. The second main reason why children have been in Norway for a long time is that we have had a red-green government that has not been able to enforce laws and regulations sufficiently. In the future, we will not be in the same situation – when we send out people who do not need protection and do not have the right to be in Norway. Everyone's going to make a profit. It must be much better for the families and children who have been refused their application to be returned home shortly after the rejection has come, while they still have something to come home to, and while they still have a network – rather than staying here for five–six–seven–eight years, to then be sent out of the country. That is what is the reality of this asylum agreement. The representatives of the SV and the Workers' Party who are wondering in what direction the totality of this agreement is going, can only read the agreement point by point, so they can themselves interpret what is tightening, and what is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4698	For the Christian People's Party, it is very fun that we have got the agreement to accept 500 new quota refugees, while there is a cross-political agreement to help where the need is greater – where the refugees are staying – and where the effect is very great by helping. Norway is a rich country, and we have a moral responsibility to participate in this operation. We therefore expect refugees from Camp Liberty to receive special attention. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the budgetary agreement leads to the continuation of the support to the information and guidance centre for au pairs. The integration grant and investment grants for municipal rental dwellings are now being increased. It can stimulate increased settlement, and we heard the council say today that it was one of the biggest bottlenecks. I expect that we can follow this further into 2015 and 2016, to see if we can contribute even more to increased settlement and integration of refugees. It must also apply to compensation in the case of older refugees and disabled persons. Increase in the integration grant appears to be one of the most targeted capacity-enhancing measures. It is positive that the government has such a good dialogue with the municipalities. Together with SV, the Christian People's Party believes that it should be opened up so that refugees can find their own place to live – if they can afford it – with the support they receive in the introduction programme. I'm a little surprised that no other parties have been involved. Because through self-settlement, refugees can take greater responsibility for influencing their living and living situation in the future. Instead of being treated as passive clients, you get an early opportunity to regain control of your own life. The Christian People's Party seems to be demanding to hear about radicalisation in immigrant communities in Norway. Some people from immigrant communities have joined extreme Islamic environments and have traveled to Syria to fight for ISIL. The Christian People's Party, together with the government, wants to find preventive measures against this happening in the future. Finally, it is important that UNE function effectively as an independent management body which carries out a thorough review of the assessments made by UDI. UNE shall ensure legal certainty and contribute to compliance with international conventions and Norwegian law. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the number of untreated cases is going down, with shorter processing times. But the Christian People's Party believes that efficiency should not be at the expense of legal certainty, as Prime Minister Solberg stressed here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4713	The representative, Kjeseth, is asking what the Workers' Party really means. Well, the Labour Party still believes, as we thought when we were in government, that we should have a fair, fair and consistent asylum policy. If you need to stay, it means in clear text: If you come to Norway, seek protection and need to stay, you will be allowed to stay. If you don't need to stay, you have to travel. That's the simple part of the answer. As I said in my post, we have had a long debate, and in the last week it has been quite intensified, where we have discussed what we are doing with the long-term asylum children. It is an important debate. We have recorded that the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party have reached an agreement on a new regulation that liberalises this on some points. On other points, there is a continuation of the moments that lay in the child's big-time message. What I said in my post was that it is good that we have come up with a clarification. It is good that we have been given a clarification, so that the people involved can move on in their lives, whether they are going to stay in Norway, or they have to go home to their homeland. Then I say that we hope that the intentions that the parties had will be fulfilled, and that we will not have undesirable effects. Both the representative Kjeseth and I – I hope – are aware that these are not simple matters. No one voluntarily chooses to put their life on hold. There's a very demanding relationship that actually makes you want to be here. But we cannot create a system that rewards those who do not deal with what the Norwegian authorities impose on them. That is the whole dilemma – the whole heart of the debate. There is a balance between the best interests of children and immigration regulatory considerations. That is at the heart of the debate. And where should the balance point be? We discussed a crash message. There is no secret that there are different views in the Workers' Party. The working party is a big party. It would be funny if all of our more than 50,000 members would think exactly the same thing in this case. We have quite tough debates on this, but we believe that, together with our government partners, we found a good balance point when we dealt with the Children's Big Bang message. And when it comes to regulatory or wholesale communications, the representative, Skkelstad and I had an exchange of views on it earlier in the debate – I don't think we will agree – but it's our opinion that it's also possible to steer through the Storing Communication and political instructions, and we believe that we have documented it, both through the UN report and through the fact that Höjesterett uses the Storingsmessage as a legal source. Then I must be allowed to end by thanking for one of the better debates I have experienced in Stortinget. I feel that many of the posts have been open and inviting, and I want to address in particular to the Council of State Horne that her position in her posts was open and honest with regard to the challenges we face together. We do not agree with all the instruments, but at least there is agreement that we have major challenges in this area, which we will try to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4724	First, I would like to thank the representative Stine Renate Håheim for addressing the issue of racism, which exists, and for people being excluded. It is important that it be mentioned in this debate because it exists. Then I heard the post from Right Mudasar Kapur. It was also a very good post. In terms of development and assistance, I think he is right, but in terms of national policy, that is not true. The article does not match what the government is doing. He talked about how important it was that the girls were educated, and that the women came to work. I fully agree with that, but this budget is giving less to the immigrant mothers and more to the millionaires. It's sad. One of the cuts made by the government was cut in the transitional aid. There is research from Fafo to show that former beneficiaries of the transitional benefit have higher employment than women of the same age and with the same education and residence. For immigrant women, it seems even better. Then it is very strange that there is a scheme that the government is going to implement. There are many immigrant women who also need transitional benefits. If you stay alone, you need higher income, and then you need to be able to qualify. And it works. The second is Jobjessen, which the government has had the opportunity to prioritise. It seems to laugh, it also confirms the minister himself, but you have chosen not to spend money on it. On the other hand, you have chosen to spend money on cash support, which is payment to keep the kids away from kindergarten and mother from work. In addition, reference is made to the obligation of activity which is now to be the responsibility of social assistance. We've discussed it before today. There is not a single penny in the municipal economy to implement this obligation of activity. That means that the immigrant women who cannot Norwegian, in some mysterious way, will receive an offer that costs NOK 0 and it will work positively. I'm very much for activity. SV is very for activity. That's why we've put money into the activity that social assistance people are going to have. That's why we've funded measures for young people who have fallen out of school and working life, and that's why we've also spent money on Jobjeansen and on transitional assistance, because we know it works. And we know that it works very well for the immigrant population that they get a good quality offer, for example. that their activities contribute to their learning Norwegian — not just doing manual work and not being integrated at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4737	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4751	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4760	Let me start by thanking the Committee – and, to this extent, the State Council, Anundsen – for a flexible approach to finding a solution. This is a difficult matter, there are difficult balances to be made, and there have been discussions among the parties in the committee. The Committee is essentially divided in several ways, so I'm going to be careful to be brief and just explain the main issues in the case and the Labour Party's position here. I expect the respective parties to explain both their views and their vote on the matter. This case concerns the possibility of granting exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy to employees or other persons performing work or services in reception and care centres, so that information can be provided to the foreign authorities in order to better inform matters relating to the treatment of the foreign law. There are two issues which are being discussed in this matter and which are covered by the proposal: the adults and the minors. Already here, the committee separates layers, so I'm going to go over to explain the Workers' Party's position. For the Workers’ Party, this has been a difficult balance – weighing the need to provide information relevant to matters covered by the Foreign Affairs Act and the discussion of whether there is a basis for a stay in Norway, against the interests of privacy. When you are at a reception, the reception is to be regarded as one's home during the period you live there. Under the European Convention on Human Rights, there are quite strict restrictions to be able to disregard in Norway the interests of privacy — one’s home and privacy — but also the data protection law. We have come to the conclusion, after an overall assessment, that there are serious reasons to support the government's proposal to allow exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy for adult residents. When it comes to the issue of lone minors living in reception, childcare or care centres, we have come to a different conclusion. The main reason is that in the case of minors, i.e. those who have not reached the age of 18, there is, in the view of the Workers' Party, a risk of mixing roles – the relationship between being a caregiver, since the child does not have any other caregivers when it comes here as a single minor, and being employed or performing services for the foreign administration. Therefore, we have come to the conclusion that this possibility of exemption from professional secrecy cannot apply to lone minors living in reception, care centres or child protection institutions. On this basis, together with the Center Party, we have made a proposal that I am addressing. I will not extend this procedure further. I expect that we will get a proper treatment, but I will again take the opportunity to thank you for a good cooperation in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4782	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4785	It is important that we guarantee the legitimacy of the asylum institution. All parties have an interest in determining asylum applications on the correct basis, not least the applicant himself. The government’s proposal can provide a greater room and opportunity to identify various types of asylum and residence errors. This will ultimately benefit the real asylum seekers. The decision is based on a thorough assessment of the facts in each case by the non-resident authorities to determine whether there is a basis for residence. The applicant has an obligation to do its best to contribute and provide the necessary documentation, while at the same time having to have systems that contribute as much as possible to getting the realities on the table. If we cannot capture those who are trying to exploit the institution of asylum or those who are actually persecuted, who have a real need for protection, and send them back to danger, none of the elements are a sustainable situation. That is why it is so important for us to clarify all aspects of an asylum application. Norwegian asylum recipients staff possess a knowledge that may be extremely relevant in an asylum process. In other words, information held by employees may be important in order to confirm or withdraw information provided by the applicant to the foreign authorities and, where appropriate, to provide a basis for further investigations. This may, for example, be the language the asylum seeker talks to daily, family or other information that can help to obtain the correct factual basis. It is important to stress that this could not only help to prevent those who provide incorrect information in order to cheat for stay, but also those who need real help and are actually persecuted. It is also important that we do not create an artificial distinction in government, rules that create different results for users, depending on the institution on which they are randomly placed. It is therefore important that we have equal rules for both public and private asylum recipients. Equal treatment in public administrations must be a matter of course, and I am pleased that the proposition provides for equal treatment of public and private asylum recipients. Then I had hoped that we could reach agreement today, and there is a great deal of agreement on the basis of that. I would therefore like to state that the Progress Party and the Right Subsidiary will vote in favour of the Labour Party and the proposal for the Second paragraph of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4796	We have spent a lot of time figuring out what we should do in this matter, because it is very important, as was said by previous speakers, to have a high degree of legitimacy in the asylum procedure and throughout the asylum chain. When an asylum seeker arrives in the country, he meets different bodies. He may be suspicious because he is not used to the fact that the police and other public bodies are trusting, and therefore he may hold back information or provide incorrect information. In Norway, it is important to bring out the truth, but it owns the person who comes. It's part of privacy, part of privacy and part of the responsibility that the person assumes to be truthful. Similarly, a healthcare professional and asylum recipients and the police are looking for different information, and we have come to the conclusion that we need strict practices in this area to ensure precisely privacy, but then asylum seekers have a great responsibility to obtain the correct information about themselves and have to take responsibility for it. We want them to help and trust our police and our institutions, but, as I said, it must be explained through a good trial, and we hope that we can contribute to that. There has also been consultation in this area. In conclusion, I would just like to make an explanation of vote. The Christian People's Party shall vote subsidiaryly for the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre Party for the second paragraph. If the first term gets a majority, we're assuming that there will be separate voting in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4805	Then it's explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4808	The government's proposal to provide staff in reception centres and child protection workers working with lone minor asylum seekers, the right and obligation to assist the foreign authorities with information relevant for the assessment of residence permits is a difficult one. The Committee has also failed to reach a conclusion which a majority can endorse. I think it is unfortunate that today we have different provisions on the professional secrecy of employees in private and public-run asylum recipients. Administrative law on professional secrecy, such as the Government through Prop. 104 L proposes changes to, applies to public activities and thus to municipally driven asylum recipients. Therefore, there is good reason to make the amendments necessary to harmonise the legislation. The body of the Centre joins the majority of the Committee on the issue of providing the foreign authorities with the necessary access to information which gives the authorities the best possible basis for determining each case. We believe that it is right and reasonable that employees of private and public-run asylum recipients should have the same right and obligation to provide information that they know about their identity and background, or about other matters of direct relevance to the assessment of their right to asylum. It is when we come to the question of professional secrecy for employees working with minors that we do not reach agreement with the government parties. Together with the Workers' Party, we oppose the right and obligation of employees responsible for lone minor asylum-seekers in asylum-seekers and care centres to provide information they may have acquired about the minor. We point out in our remarks that several of the hearing bodies are concerned about the provision of treatment to children if adults around them are required to provide information that they have been made aware of by virtue of their role of care. I note that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee agrees that the need for the safety and care of minors must be given great importance, but she believes that the need to provide important information to the foreign authorities should be given greater importance. That's the balance we in the Center Party don't agree with. The best of children has become a central and difficult concept of immigration policy. This is also such a case. Children are vulnerable, and I have noticed that in general, it is not expected that children will contribute to clarifying the basis for the application for a stay for themselves and their families. Lone minor asylum seekers are in an even more difficult situation than young people who have come here with their families. The provisions of the Children’s Act on the Confidentiality of Employees are stricter than those of the Administrative Act. I believe that we are on safe ground when we give lone minor asylum seekers the same legal protection as other minors.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4827	It is a human right to seek asylum, and we have a well-functioning rule of law and a responsibility for the proper handling of asylum applications and not least the proper treatment of asylum seekers. In the view of the Left, the legislative proposal promoted by the Government seriously weakens the right of asylum seekers to security. It is foreseen that employees in reception at child protection centres, etc. has an obligation to provide information about a resident and to do so on his own initiative. It is a form of a statutory declaration in which information has been collected by employees in their jobs at receptions is communicated to the foreign authorities – without informing and allowing residents to attend or correct. In our view, employees at reception are to ensure that life becomes as viable as possible to residents, who in many cases live there over several years, but are now scheduled to be designated by the foreign authorities. It doesn't seem like the Left is anything special. I would assume that living in a reception – with life waiting – in itself is quite stressful. There is a system in which, in what is one's own home indefinitely, one should go around and be afraid of what one says, and what one does, because it can be passed on to the foreign agencies, with a crucial importance for one's ability to stay in the country. In the view of the Left, it is not a legal State worthy. Who else in a society can be subject to a similar monitoring regime? Data protection fears that the law facilitates unqualified guessing, with then poor quality of information, which may have serious consequences for individuals. The Association of Advocates considers that the proposal violates all public administrative practices for the collection of personal data, where the record in the file limits the possibility of disclosure of data. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality stresses that it is important that asylum seekers have confidence in reception staff and that it is particularly important for children and their sense of belonging and security. Some Norwegian human rights centres, such as NOAS, are critical, the Children's Ombudsman is critical, etc. The left shares the government's desire to facilitate the emergence of relevant information on the matter, but it strongly rejects the methods that it wishes to use. The goal does not at any time consecrate the instruments. And as pointed out by several hearing bodies, one cannot be sure that information disclosed is neither correct nor complete. The case will not be fully disclosed, but it will definitely be even more difficult to live in reception, both for adults and for young people. So an explanation of vote on what we have in front of us in relation to the various voting positions: we want to vote in principle against it all, but we will vote subsidiaryly for the Labour Party and for the Central Party's proposal for the second paragraph if it becomes a majority for the first paragraph, and then there must be separate voting over the first and second paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4844	SV shares the view that the left now presented in the matter. We agree on remarks in the vote, and we also want to vote against both paragraphs, but subsidiary vote for the Labour Party and the proposal for the Second paragraph of the Center Party. I will go through some of the heavy objections that the hearing bodies have raised, because it is very rare that I have seen a case that has such serious objections. For example, several departments are opposed, for example: The Ministry of Renewal and Administration, which says – quite correctly – that it is not necessary to share all information on the matter with the foreign authorities, because that is not the case. The Data Protection Authority ‘fears that the law facilitates unqualified guessing, with then poor quality of information, which may have serious consequences for individuals’, and that is what is important in these cases. This is about very serious things. One thing is if you get to stay. The second is what happens if you are sent back again on a completely false basis. Here you give almost some kind of obligation to state people who have very different qualifications and different opportunities and knowledge to interpret the information they receive – it's not an interpreter, and it can be quite random what it is that you capture and interpret. Several hearing bodies also point out that there is information without interpreters and that interpretations will also be experienced. The association of asylum-seekers refers precisely to this and says: ‘When everyone has the right to report, the quality of the information will be influenced by randomness and by subjective perceptions. The association therefore considers that the draft law is contrary to the principle of non-discrimination, which should exist in foreign affairs.» I thought we agreed that the principle of non-discrimination should apply, and that it should not be accidental what information could be provided. Then there are even stronger objections from many of the hearing bodies regarding children. That is why I am pleased that an alternative proposal has been tabled today. Because it's clear that children who live in reception, in a much stronger way than adults, will depend on being able to trust some adults, trust them, tell thoughts, and maybe even stories that are not meant to be passed on to the alien authorities. These children also have no obligation, as has been said here. In the interests of the integrity and privacy of children, it should not be possible to provide information to the foreign authorities without consent. The Norwegian Centre for Human Rights believes that by introducing such an information obligation as is now proposed by the Government and for which it appears to be a majority, ‘employees in reception and care centres are deprived of the possibility of carrying out their own assessment of the child’. That's a reason we're obliged to take, and as the employees there are obliged to take. The Children’s Ombudsman considers that: ‘it is very worrying that employees in receipt shall be obliged to disclose information taken out of their context. Employees will come into an even more difficult intermediate position, resulting in a further blending of roles as carers and as part of the foreign authorities’. This need to be both a caregiver and an inspector and to indicate at once is not a safe situation for those who are to live on reception. Facts on such matters are important, but facts need to be established through procedures that ensure legal certainty and ensure the quality of the assessments of the information provided. What you're doing now is opening up a system where there are unqualified people who are going to interpret statements, perhaps given in a desperate and difficult situation, which can be crucial in a matter that can actually be about life and death. That's SV against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4875	I'll first say a few words for the last post. I think it's based on some misunderstandings, which are answered in the proposition, among other things. is not such that all types of information should be used by the representative Andersen called ‘donors’. I think it is a terribly strong word in such a type of case where the aim is to obtain the information that is relevant to dealing with an asylum application. There are strong limitations and only relevant information to be obtained in such a situation. There shall be a notary with regard to the transmission and receipt of this information and it is definitely not about unqualified guessing in any way. Of course, all the information obtained through this system needs to be quality assured, and many of the misunderstandings would be solved if you had read the entire proposition. Then I want to thank the case rapporteur and the other debaters for a neat and good debate, and a review of what others have pointed to is a complicated challenge. I am pleased that there is now a majority in favour of employees on reception of asylum and the right to provide information to the foreign authorities under certain conditions. There are shared opinions about lonely minors, to which I come back. It is central to have clear and uniform rules for reception staff in all types of reception, and I have noticed that the majority in the Committee agrees with this. At the same time, it is important to have rules to facilitate the optimum decision-making by the foreign authorities in order to take proper decisions in foreign matters. This is the central purpose of this proposal. A good basis for decision in asylum matters is primarily important to ensure protection for those people who need it, but also to prevent persons from being granted a residence permit in Norway on a false or incorrect basis. The proposal will thus help to ensure the legitimacy of the asylum institution and prevent abuse. I am also very concerned that foreigners without a legal stay in Norway will be returned quickly to their country of origin. The proposal allows the Police Department to obtain information about foreigners that may be the property of the receptions, e.g.: information relating to identity and contact with family in the home Member State. Then I would also like to stress that the government and I believe it is important that the care of minors' needs for safety and care be given great importance. It's one of the things that makes this a very complicated case. But at the same time, I believe it is important that the foreign authorities have sufficient decision-making grounds to assess the child's best interests. For single minor asylum seekers, this will include, inter alia: be particularly important to know any contact with caregivers in the home Member State and the place of residence of caregivers. It is necessary for the foreign authorities to be able to make an assessment of the actual best interests of the child in all relevant cases. In the opinion of the government, it is not appropriate for employees in reception and care units to withhold such relevant information on the basis of professional secrecy. So I've noticed, as many have also said in posts in the room today, that there have been some references to hearing bodies that have been critical. These include: underlined the importance of this for confidence between employees and residents. Questions are asked about the competence of employees to pass on information, counter-dictation, etc. I believe that these are relevant counter-arguments, but I also believe that the need to have these matters clarified as well as possible must go ahead. In addition, our information to residents could help to reduce potential adverse effects in order to protect the confidence of employees and lone minor asylum seekers. The government’s proposals are limited to information which is particularly important for the access of non-resident authorities. I would also like to state that the purpose of the proposal is not to obtain information in all cases, but only where it is necessary to inform the case. Furthermore, relevant information can be disclosed, not otherwise. The right of objection will be fulfilled through the general procedure of the Foreign Service relating to the information used in the decisions. Under current legislation, all asylum seekers are obliged to provide the necessary documentation and to assist in obtaining the necessary information to inform their own asylum case. The government believes it is very important to have all asylum cases informed as well as possible, including the cases of the lone minors. I have to admit that we also settle for the Workers' Party and the Senter Party's proposals that will improve this in very many areas, where the disagreement is between minors. Then I will finally be allowed to thank the committee for a good day of debate, and wish Christmas, even if there is a little time left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4905	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4908	I think I'm just going to go straight to the two questions I have without any greater intellects. One issue relates to the concern the Labour Party has just had for lonely minors, and the Council of State strongly argues that there should also have been grounds for exempting those working against minors from the obligation of professional secrecy. There is no majority for that in the Chamber, and I am glad that the Council of State will settle for it. But does the Council of State recognise that this is a fundamental objection to the government's proposal, and does the Council of State understand that it may be the basis for not supporting the government's proposal for the second paragraph? The second question is: Based on the hearing bodies and all the heavy objections raised there, the Council of State, because these are very difficult considerations, will follow up on how this is actually being practised?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4915	As I said in my post, I believe that there are relevant counter-conceptions, and it is about the extent to which one weighs the counter-conceptions up to what is the purpose of the proposal. Then there is an assessment of the importance of getting an asylum case informed in the best possible way. That is what the government believes is a very important consideration. That doesn't mean we don't recognise the counter-arguments in terms of trust between lonely minors and people working at receptions. There are also important counter-arguments. So I want to say, as I also said in my post, that this is a complicated problem, and it's crucial how much you weigh the different considerations. It is always the case that the practice of legislation is followed differently, and this too, of course, needs to be followed up in a proper manner in line with the assumptions of the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4920	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4928	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4936	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. They're proposal No 1, by Mr Huitfeldt, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, from Kristian Norheim on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a project to be launched to identify the needs and housing solutions of refugees in Norwegian international humanitarian efforts.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e4964	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget requires the Government to allocate 1 per cent of GNI for assistance in the annual budgets.’;» The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e9396	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the coal mining operations on Svalbard are closed when the current mines are propelled out.’ The roll-call boards showed that 99 votes were cast against the proposal and 2 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e9408	Not everyone may have been informed that SV should support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e9413	So that's why you voted in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e9416	I voted in favour, but the others obviously didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e9421	That was a wise summary. Can the president ask what SV means?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e9424	As I said, we must support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e9429	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e9441	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case on the further development of the Svalbard community, focusing on sustainability, environmental research, a renewable energy base and new economic pathways such as data centres.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10071	A total of 31 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-17, by Eirik Sivertsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, 18-20, by Mr Sivertsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 21 and 22, by Mr Sivertsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 23-25, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, 26–31, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the municipalities are entrusted with visual contacts or other visual skills in sufficient numbers compared to the population.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10106	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative proposals which, irrespective of municipal or non-municipal operations, ensure full transparency around key quality indicators, including the manning situation, in the services for which the municipalities are responsible, as well as that central parts of public legislation are also applicable to private institutions.’ The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10125	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26–29, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate the renegotiation of the Dublin Agreement with a view to a more balanced distribution of responsibilities between the countries.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in a comprehensive international action to save people in distress over the Mediterranean.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with its own legislative proposal to ensure that all children on reception of asylum have the right to children’s playground in line with other children in Norway.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for enhanced work for the space population, with particular emphasis on the children. ‘... The Labour Party and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10159	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the municipality’s 2016 proposal to provide a review of inter-municipal cooperation models, how they work and how they can be developed further to combine the quality and efficiency of the municipal services with regard to the popular governance of municipal activities. Until such an overall review is dealt with by the Storting, there shall be no change in the possibility of concluding joint municipal agreements.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10176	There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to finance the growth grant without any contribution from the population grant for all municipalities.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10195	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size determines whether the tax collection should be a State or municipal task, in the context of the announced review of municipal tasks in the spring of 2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10212	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to continue today’s system of municipal responsibility for tax collection.’ The Labour Party has notified that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10231	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for EUR 30.8 million. kronor of the free resources of the counties to the cultural spaserstock.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10250	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18–20, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government, through the development and availability of e-options, to ensure that visually impaired persons and others who need them are given the opportunity to vote electronically to ensure that everyone can participate in secret elections.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the Municipality of Oslo to enter into negotiations for plans to extend the Groruddalen and Oslo South bets for a further 10 years, so as to provide for an extension of the scheme of free core time in the kindergartens as part of the regional initiatives.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget with proposals for stepping up the territorial initiatives, including Groruddalssatsingen and Oslo Sør.’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10279	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3, 7, 9 and 11–16, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue cooperation with 4H Norway, the Forest Company, the Agricultural Company and the Hage Company by continuing the current system of office communities with county offices.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that employees and their trustees are given real participation in the design of a new government quarter, and that the choice of office solutions and job design is based on long-term and a broad knowledge base on the essay and work processes of the enterprises concerned.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back to proposals in the revised national budget for 2015 where income limits in housing aid are adjusted in line with the general changes in salary and social security.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to maintain universal design and availability requirements in technical regulations for the Planning and Building Act at least at the same level as today’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to invite KS and the employee organisations to tripartite cooperation in order to design, implement and finance a reform of competence for the local government sector.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to base its work on the reform of the municipality on maintaining an administrative three-level model in Norway with elected governance at regional level.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further work to be done on the community reform to ensure that the regional elected level has a job portfolio at least at the present level.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that regionally elected levels continue to be responsible for further education and therefore that trials are not carried out on the transfer of this task to the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the new municipalities that have received a lower employer’s fee do not suffer loss of income as a result.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the income system of the county municipalities remains unchanged in 2015 and that the government facilitates a good process, with consultations and consultations with the county councils before proposing changes to the income system, is promoted in the municipality proposal for 2016.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e10343	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 4–6, 8, 10 and 17, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to report in the revised national budget on the balances, the duration of treatment, the capacity of the county council to work with the guards and on the status of the training of candidates.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive plan for the use of common ICT solutions in the public sector, across agencies and levels of government.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case to strengthen the ability of non-profit actors to be the operating operator of asylum recipients.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider in the 2016 Municipal Proposition how to better provide better framework conditions for municipalities with the Sami population in order to meet their national and international obligations, in particular with regard to how linguistic and cultural needs are met in the welfare offer.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that disabled persons retain their rights to housing support at least at the current level.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to follow the Bank’s lending closely and to return to the Storting with proposals for increased lending frameworks in the revised National Budget 2015 if this is necessary to meet the demand for loans.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government requests the maintenance of the compensation mechanism entry point for particularly resource-intensive services at 2014 level, adjusted for estimated wage growth.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13347	The framework area 6, immigration, regional development and housing, VIII. It is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party that are behind this point in the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13363	The framework area is 1, central government, the rest of the framework area 6, immigration, regional development and housing, and the framework area 18, transfer to the municipal sector. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13381	During the debate, Mr Sivertsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13427	It is voted on in the first paragraph of Section 84b. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13442	It is added to the second and third paragraphs of Section 84b and II. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13456	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 15 May 2008 No 35 on the access of foreigners to the State and their residence here, the second and third subparagraphs of Section 84b shall be replaced by the following: For residents who are single, minor asylum seekers, the alienation authorities may not request staff as referred to in the first subparagraph, and staff in care centres for minors and child protection institutions, see: Chapters 5 and 5(A) of the Law on the Protection of Children, concerning information referred to in the first subparagraph. The king may prescribe the information to be provided in accordance with the first subparagraph on the procedure for obtaining the information referred to in the first subparagraph and the further processing of the information obtained.»; The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly. It also does the Right and Advance Party. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13479	It's said over III. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it. The vote boards showed that 94 votes were cast for the adjustment and 1 vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13488	The president might have been too quick to say that the vote was over. Let's do the voting one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13500	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Greens too will vote against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13505	SV shall also vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13518	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-09.ana.ud433e13530	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
