ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e26	The representatives of Freddy de Ruiter, Anniken Huitfeldt, Rasmus Hansson and Marit Arnstad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative, Heidi Greni, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e43	On behalf of Per Olaf Lundtigen, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen child protection through a new organisational model.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e48	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e51	On behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Micaelsen, Hadia Tajik, Ruth Mari Grung, Freddy de Ruiter, Audun Otterstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal that the Legal Genetics Centre in Tromsø can carry out DNA analyses in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e56	The representative, Mr Micasen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e59	On behalf of the representatives of Tove Karoline Knutsen, Freddy de Ruiter, Ruth Mari Grung, Audun Otterstad and myself, I am delighted to propose more and better measures to combat foe spotting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e64	The representative, Johnny Ingebrichtsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e67	As a marine skipper who is currently a magnificent representative, I will make proposals to have Hurtigruta's approach evaluated professionally in Mehamn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e73	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that there will be a call today to consider case No. Three, Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e87	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Bent Höie and Robert Eriksson for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Torgeir Micaelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e94	When we get sick or injured, operating hospitals and emergency services with clarity of responsibility are very important to patients. It is also important for societal preparedness. This was one of the main points of last year's campaign, which included: Bent Höie went to the elections on a major reform that was to replace the way we currently run the hospitals. However, it is now very unclear whether there are electoral commitments from last year or the Minister of Health letter to the Stortinget on the follow-up to work on a so-called national health and hospital plan that applies. For the sake of questioning here: To the Official Journal of Bergen the week before the elections Bent Höie said: ‘Today the activists do not know where to turn, now they can go to Oslo and take a torch to Stortinget. They can address their own politicians at Stortinget, who with our model will be responsible for the decisions.’ Now Bent Höie writes to the Storting: ‘I do not wish to propose with national health and hospital plans that the Storting should take decisions relating to the specific food and emergency services or other changes at the various hospitals. The size must not take over the responsibilities of the board and the management of the hospitals.» [[...]] Unfortunately, we also have other examples of major spin-offs from the Minister of Health in the last six months: reservation rights for permanent doctors, reorganization of emergency services and an independent review of the OUS, Oslo University Hospital. I think it's good that we have a health minister who goes away from unexplored election vows, but I think it's bad that you have to make choices before you understand that what you made in opposition, maybe wasn't as smart and as simple as you thought. Worse still, there is no clarity in who is responsible for what in the hospitals. Therefore, my question is: does the Minister of Health understand that people also find it difficult to see the relationship between life and learning in this matter? And what concrete decisions will be made in the new health plan of the Minister for Health, in addition to the kind of decisions that Stoltenberg II presented in the National Health and Care Plan, related to health notifications and budget proposals? What concrete changes are being made?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e115	All those who have heard me make countless contributions on the need for a national health and hospital plan, have also heard me describe, even before the election, what the content of such a plan should be, and that is quite in line with the letter that I have recently sent to the Stortinget. What we have used as a model for the national health and health plan is the way the Storting was involved in, for example. the question of the development of maternity care, through the birth notification. It is the reference that has been used several times about the description of this. It is precisely where the Storting will discuss the general principles for the development of the specialist health service in the years to come, in such a way that it provides guidance on how the service is specifically organised locally. That's what Stortinget did when it came to the birth announcement. It has had a concrete impact on changes in the birth offer. And in the discussions that have been locally related to this in retrospect, one could actually show that these are leads based on professional recommendations and quality objectives, to which the Stortinget has also joined, and a balance between the professional recommendations and the issues of quality and the other conditions that govern development. It will also be the model for the national health and health plan. The national health and health plan will differ significantly from the overall national health plan presented by the previous government, where one did not enter and made a concrete assessment of how the specialist health service will develop in the years to come. It is a great paradox that we have had a government responsibility for the specialist health service for over ten years without a national health and hospital plan that provides leadership for skills needs, for investment needs and for which general principles hospitals are to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e126	I don't think anyone in this room disagrees that the Storting should have the top responsibility, have overall responsibility and discuss principles, and I'd like to develop a plan based on the same types of principles, but that's not what was left behind when the then head of the Health Committee traveled around the country and the beach and promised different things together with his Prime Minister's candidate. Let me quote something else from the same interview I quoted from instead. Former Prime Minister candidate Erna Solberg also said to the Official Journal of Bergen: ‘As we have a National Transport Plan for Transport, we should have a national health plan for hospitals. Then we will listen to local recordings, professional advice and let the Stortinget make the decisions.’ The problem is that in the letter that I referred to instead, which the Stortinget has now received, the Minister of Health says on the contrary that the Stortinget will not take over the decision-making powers that lie in the hospitals and in health companies. That is why I repeat my question: what concrete new decisions is the Stortinget going to make in the health minister's plan that the Stortinget has not been presented in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e136	We are now doing well in the process described in the interview by the quotation from Erna Solberg. During these days, the Ministry’s group working with national health and hospital plans travels to all areas of Norway. Yesterday, the group visited Nordfjord and met with the locals and Health Förde and listened to the recordings they had. Two weeks ago, they were in Finnmark. They travel land and beach around just to get the kind of local recording. Then we have set up three expert groups – an expert group with users and patients, an expert group with more independent professionals and an expert group representing the different employee groups. All this shall be reflected in the national health and health plan to be submitted to the Stortinget. Then the Stortinget is invited to draw up the overall lines for these different areas. In the first National Health and Sickness Plan, we will emphasise that a major theme is the development of the emergency and emergency medical chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e143	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e146	In Telemark, the hospital structure debate goes quite high, both south of the state, in Kragerø, and north of the state, in Rjukan. There has been a high level of commitment and concern in view of the healthcare offered by local hospitals. But the Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring good external competence. In particular, this will apply to adequate staffing and competence in emergency services, such as medical and food services in the districts as well. What does the Minister do to provide an equivalent basic welfare provision as food and emergency preparedness in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e153	In the case of food supply, the Stortinget has provided the overall leadership for the development of that provision in the main communication on the care of the child. A lot of the work has already been done, as the follow-up to that work in the health regions, and one has been given a structure now that I believe there are not very many discussions about anymore. One has been through a demanding process, but most of the conclusions – at least from my perspective – have now been drawn, in line with what the Stortinge suggested. Then we have said that in the case of emergency services, it will be a main theme of the first national health and health plan to lead it. Then we have also said in the government platform that one will not accept that emergency and food services that are not justified in patient safety and quality are being put down before the Stortinge has dealt with a new national health and hospital plan. If the type of decisions is taken in healthcare companies, I, as Minister of Health, would of course have to assess whether it is in line with the government platform or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e160	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e163	After a round of right-hand selection freedom, it looks like we're back to start. On 6 June 2001, the Workers' Party and the Right were joined by the Odelstingen proceedings on the company law. In order to defend the radical reform from the fact that the state-owned administration of hospitals to state ownership with corporate governance clarified the parties’ promise that ‘cases likely to be essential for the enterprise’s activities’ – Paragraph 30 of the Enterprise Act – would be decided politically. The question now is whether Right, by the Council of State Höie, will also run away from its political responsibility, in accordance with Section 30 of the Enterprise Act, so that matters of major importance – such as the closure of food and emergency services – are not decided by the enterprise but by the enterprise meeting, i.e. in practice of government and accumulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e173	It is important to clarify the difference between government and corruption on the issue raised by the representative here. It is clear that it is the government and the health minister who owns the health regions and has to make these assessments. And no, I'm not going to run from political responsibility. Of course, important decisions taken in either health enterprise boards or in health regions are all the way along. Of course, if there are any of the decisions taken there, which we believe are contrary to government policy and the leaders given to the Storting, we will intervene in these. That was also my answer to the previous question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e180	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e183	First of all, for the left, it's very important to put in place a national hospital plan. We see that the government is friendly through agreements. The leftover impression of red-green hospital policy is hospital operations and torch trains. So here's a way to go. But one of the instruments that I feel the Council of State has called for is investment. There's a lot of talk about closures and cuts, but we're also going to invest in new hospitals and new services. Then the question is, When does hospital construction become operational? Is it also going to make all the new investments locally, or are health care establishments required to decide and build locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e192	The first step in that work has been made through a decision in the business meeting that Health Mid-Norway is responsible for establishing a national hospital construction company. That company is being set up and will then have a function to coordinate work on major hospital developments in the country. They'll be able to have a builder function. The purpose of this is to have an overall competence environment that can control the development and construction of hospitals in such a way that we do not do what has been the case now, that we build hospitals in Norway every time as if we were doing it for the first time. The experience is that a lot of decisions are made that have major financial implications, because one does not have a permanent, competent organisation. One also depends on renting private consultants inside at a very high price. So this company is under construction, and this will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e199	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e202	This does not happen very often, but it happens that the Right and SV agree – and SV supports the desire for a national hospital plan. I hope it becomes very concrete, but I do not choose to worry about the concrete level of government council until I actually see it. What I am concerned about, on the other hand, is the processes of various health companies for restructuring before the government's hospital plan comes to Stortinget. We see, for example: a concrete process in Telemark related to the reduction of offers in Rjukan, and also in Kragerø, for which there is strong concern in the region. That is why I would like to challenge the Minister of Health on how he will go into this matter in concrete terms, for there is now to be a board of directors at the Hospital Telemark on 20 May. I assume that the Minister of Health will take action to prevent major restructuring, before Stortinget gets the opportunity to have an opinion on the future structure of Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e211	The discussion on the structure of health enterprises in Telemark is the most specific issue in progress. I also see that there will be significant decisions on structure before the national health and hospital plan. In addition, there is also a discussion about the location of a new hospital in North Moravia and Romesdal – in concrete terms, these are the two most current. Part of the other processes that are going on in health regions are processes that have a very long perspective, and that would be very unfortunate if one went in and stopped. It would only prevent a development in which one had good processes related to important investments. That's why I disagree very much with, for example. the approach of the centre party to stop all processes pending the national health and hospital plan; When the matter was specifically raised at the Hospital Telemark, the case files were sent out to the board yesterday. They will deal with the matter on 20 May, and I will, of course, consider whether that decision is in line with the government's policy and the leadership of the Storting or not. But I can't assess it until the board has actually made a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e220	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e223	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Getting seriously sick with a risk of their lives is always a challenge for everyone, but perhaps the most for those who live far away from hospitals, where it takes a long time before the ambulance comes, or where it takes a long time to get out with an air ambulance. An emergency service with good competence and long experience is an important part of the emergency medical chain, and this is in a way the hospital's extended arm out where people live. An equivalent emergency facility requires a rapid and competent air ambulance service and, in particular, a knowledge-rich and skill-oriented ambulance service throughout the country. St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, on emergency medical preparedness, describes the objective of 90 pst. by the Norwegian population, the helicopter shall be capable of being reached by a medical helicopter within 45 minutes. Countries that we like to compare with – and it seems tough to compare us with – have a target in 15 minutes. Research shows that the competence of the air ambulance and ambulance makes that 90 pst. Get good treatment right away — and that’s the competence of the service to treat them well — and then acts 10 pst. that they are actually transported quickly to a large hospital. In critical diseases such as stroke, myocardial infarction, trauma and bleeding, this is important, otherwise the effect of what patients need is reduced when they enter the hospital, and they remain as losers. My question is: Will the Minister ensure – as Health Nord has done – that we get an overview of the coverage of the air ambulance in health businesses, and will the Council of State ensure that the response time across the country is equal and thus involves more air ambulance bases than we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e236	First to today's status with regard to the recommended response time in the professional investigation on which the service is based today: it is overfilled. It's about 95 pst. which currently lives within such a radius. It's about 166,000 who don't do it today, and when you have a population of 5 million, you see that this is within. But until next year, the base opens at Evenes, and then over two thirds of the remaining population will also live within this radius. But I agree that we need to look at the entire emergency medical chain. It's not just about helicopter, it's about the relationship between the bodyguard, which is the pillar, the ambulance service – helicopter, but also ambulance and ambulance boat – and the remainder of the service. Therefore, this will be a task for the now-working emergency committee, which we have asked to provide an interim report on this topic that can be phased into the work of a national health and hospital plan. This will be one of the main themes raised in the first operational national health and morbidity plan to be addressed by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e243	I agree that the coverage is high when you get 95 pst. But for the 166 000 who don't get help, it's a high price to pay. I agree that the ambulance service will be an important part of this. On Monday, I was visiting one of the 19 training places for ambulance services in our country, in Saudi. There I was met by young, enthusiastic young people who want to get into the ambulance. They asked me to ask two questions in the follow-up to this. One is, will the Council of State ensure that all ambulance courses have the same educational content, so that they get the same standard? And second question: will the government also ensure that health businesses have equal admission requirements for the apprentices to go out, so that we get an equal standard for the ambulance service, both in terms of knowledge and skills, across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e251	First, it is important for me to stress that the 166 000 who do not live within a 45-minute radius of the air ambulance are not without an offer. Among other things, it is considered in Finnmark that having ambulances in combination with ambulances and cars offers a safer offer, simply because in large parts of Finnmark for much of the year it is not appropriate to use helicopters because of ice. One must also take local considerations into account. A significant part of these will also come within the radius when we open a new station on the next year of Evenes. The quality of the ambulance service has improved significantly over the ten years that the State has been responsible for the specialist health service. But I fully agree that it is also important to look at requirements further, and we are now working specifically to look at the requirements of the ambulance service and will soon draw some conclusions in the area that I am convinced will lead to further improvement for that service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e258	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir S. Tuskedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e261	I thought it was exciting to hear about the new hospital plans and what is coming, and about the focus on the emergency services and the chain to be refurbished there. I am on the Municipal and Administrative Committee and I am concerned about the role of municipalities in this, because it is important to ensure that our citizens get almost the same quality wherever they live, all the way to the districts. From 1 January 2016, i.e. in a year and a half, the municipalities will be responsible for beds for immediate help. There's kind of a new intermediate station between the patients where they live and the hospital and the doctor. It's a whole new favor. The distance to hospitals can be long, and I think it is important that all reforms that are now under way increase security for people and provide a better offer where they live. Does the Minister of Health see that the equivalent coverage of helicopter and ambulance services is also central to the success of municipalities with an immediate assistance function in the context of the Interaction Reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e270	I am very pleased that the representative Tuskedal is just drawing up the relationship between the municipal services and the services with which the specialist health service is to provide, in the emergency services. Immediately after I became a health minister, I gave the emergency committee an additional assignment that had not been given by the previous government, namely that they should work on concrete quality requirements for the municipal medical officer. I believe that this is the foundation, that is the service that we do first in an emergency, and that is also the service that often contributes early in the field. But in the serious cases, they depend on the security of specialist health services. Then we have to look at the rest of this, including good helicopter coverage, and it's not the helicopter that saves lives, it's the doctor that's with the helicopter, that saves lives. That is what is also great about the Norwegian service, and not least that the air ambulance also has a medical car as part of this offer. It will be assessed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e277	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e280	We live in a confused time. It now seems clear that a national hospital plan is not as detailed as the national transport plan, as the Prime Minister claimed before the elections. In the case of ambulances and emergency response, other representatives of the government parties express themselves in particular. In the Dagsrevy studio on Monday, the head of the Health and Care Committee, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, of the Progress Party, thought that the solution to the poor coverage of air ambulances in Norway was just found in a hospital plan almost two years in advance. She could easily be understood as containing detailed descriptions of how ambulance helicopters were to organise such an important part of emergency preparedness. Today, the regions are responsible for emergency preparedness, and now the Minister of Health says that the Stortinget should not assume the responsibilities of the hospital administrators. What does the government really mean: should emergency preparedness be the responsibility of the regions, and is an overall hospital plan an exhaustive management tool – as the health minister said in this room before the elections – or not? What does the government mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e289	I cannot take responsibility for the confusion of the representative Knutsen, but my answers are exactly the same as those of the head of the Health and Care Committee, namely that these are issues that will be central to the National Health and Sickness Plan. Now it may well be that the Workers' Party, as they were responsible for health regions, let them operate on autopilot and had the approach that if it was a board's responsibility, politicians would not interfere in any way. That's not my approach. We believe that when the Stortinget receives an operational national health and hospital plan — which provides guidance for, among others. how emergency medicine will develop in the years to come – within the framework of the governance of the health regions responsible, it will take its decisions. I will not, of course, accept that some directors make decisions that are not in line with what the Stortinget has provided for a national health and hospital plan. Therefore, this national health and health plan will become the first real operational plan within which healthcare businesses will be managed, which will have consequences for patients’ services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e298	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e301	An important part of the prehospital supply is the medical care service. One year ago, May 23, 2013, the representative of Høie, together with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, launched a proposal for the Stortinget where they asked the government to launch a national medical action plan to ensure the quality, competence and accessibility of the users. That was before the election. Following the election, State Council Höie has given an emergency selection two years to ‘assess the need to prepare a proposal for national medical care’, according to the reply to the Stortinge in January of this year. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State submit a national medical action plan, as they propose in the Stortingen last year – before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e308	In order to follow up that initiative and to follow up the government platform, I then gave a mandate to the Emergency Committee to work out national demands for the municipal medical officer. That work is well under way. However, since the government has also decided that we will present the first major health report, I have also asked the Emergency Committee to support the work on the medical care issue, so we get the recommendation from the Emergency Committee into the paper on the primary health service that the Stortinget will receive in 2015. This will be fully in line with the proposal that was put forward at the time. I also believe that the representative Toppe will be happy and look forward to finally discussing the primary health service in the municipalities in a whole group, where not least quality requirements for the medical officer will be an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e315	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e319	Organisation is very important. Research and development are also very important. The left is very concerned about basing our organisation and approach on knowledge. Norwegian Air Ambulance has the largest environment in Europe for research and development in prehospital emergency medicine. I hope that the Council of State and the State will be able to make use of it when organising the future emergency response. Another theme is the so-called AMK centres and the coordination of operations. Today we have 11 AMK headquarters. Will the state councils reduce the number in the future and intervene in that organisation before the sample submits its recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e326	First, I fully agree that Norsk Luftambulance represents a very important and good environment of expertise in emergency medicine. I am very pleased that in Norway we have a non-profit foundation that is so committed to this – with a significant number of members, which makes the population contribute through its membership quota, but that they also not least gain expertise and knowledge about emergency medicine through their commitment and membership of the Norwegian Air Ambulance. Of course, this environment is to be used in all the work, and there are also professionals from the Norwegian Air Ambulance in the Emergency Committee. In the case of AMK centres, health regions have been given the task of looking at the structures of AMK centres, and not least ensuring that they have good solutions in situations where one or more AMK centres are out of play. That work is in progress, and as I said, we are not going to stop any processes because we are working on a national health and hospital plan – it would just put our healthcare back – but we are always going to assess whether the decisions taken are in line with government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e333	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e336	There's no difference between people. Everyone should have equal rights to treatment – regardless of who you are and where you live. About all the professionals and hearing bodies who have engaged in the case, think that Health Nord's decision to put down the trauma offer in Bodø is not a good professional assessment, and that it can lead to a lasting weakening of patients' supply. While this is happening in the north, Health South-East strengthens the supply of trauma patients with its own outpatient clinic in Oslo, driven by Modum Bad, and with the strengthening of trauma treatments at Modum Bad in Buskerud. In North Norway, a specialised unit is set up for this patient group. In an interview in Avisa Nordland, State Secretary Anne Grethe Erlandsen Health Nord's decision defends and thinks there's a difference in the north and the south. Can the Minister guarantee that the supply of Northern Norwegian patients will not be weakened as a result of the decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e347	Now this may have been a little bit on the side of the main question, but the Minister of Health has to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e350	I would like to answer that question. It has been a rather long and extensive process before the government of Health Nord decided this, among other things. because my clear mission to the health regions has been that one should not make any offers until one is sure that one has built up an alternative offer that is at least as good. It will also lead the process in which Health Nord is now moving the offer to the trauma patients from Bodø and out to the district psychiatric centres. The aim of this is to strengthen the medical offer to this large patient group, for example: people with mental health challenges, locally where they live. In this way, the Secretary of State is right in saying that there is a difference in the north and the south, precisely because of the distances. Many patients will get a better offer when the offer is decentralised and not centralized. This is a significant proportion of people with mental health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e355	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e358	My main question is to councillor Höie. Health and hospitals are an important policy area, where the need for debate and popular influence is great. The 2002 pre-accession model, through the state ownership of hospitals, would ensure a holistic national development of the specialist services. Under the corporate law, Stortinget was to take decisions on matters of ‘essential importance’, such as the closure of emergency and food supply and large hospital investments, but this has not been the case. The representative of Storting Höie, as the Central Party, has repeatedly referred to the need for a national hospital plan, adopted in Stortinget, where the government's responsibility is also clarified. At that time, local political influence will be strengthened by the need to represent the will of the people in their constituency. A report has just been prepared by the local hospital community’s unit of interest: ‘Health reforms on the wrong premises’. The report concludes that the corporate reform has led to the weakening of political governance. The report shows that if health care establishments are implemented, the number of hospitals with emergency facilities will be reduced from the current 49 hospitals to less than 30. Even with today's hospital structure, Norway is the country in the Nordic region that has the vast majority of the population with over an hour of travel to the nearest hospital. Based on this fact – will the Council of State Höie present to the Stortinget a national hospital plan where the Stortinget – as top political owners – decides on the emergency and food supply in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e369	As I have also said before, it is important that the Storting should be more involved in and have a good basis for decision-making on how the specialist health service will develop in the years to come. That is why we need a more operational national health and hospital plan, in line with what both the government parties and the cooperation parties Christian People's Party and the Left believe, and which I also perceive that the Central Party and the Socialist Left have agreed for a long time. The work on that plan is now well under way, and the plan will be presented to Stortinget in 2015. In that plan, we will invite Stortinget to make decisions on overall leadership for, among other things. the development of emergency services, based on professional recommendations. The leaders in both local health establishments and health regions will have to deal with the specific assessments of how the offer should look in their region, just as the Stortinge treated the birth notification and provided clear guidance on how the birth offer in Norway should look. Then health regions and health businesses followed up and implemented it. And even if some parties, for example, The centre party, locally to some extent protesting against those changes, had to admit, however, that these changes were in line with the leaders of the Storting. Thus, these decisions had a completely different democratic legitimacy from what we have seen with regard to part of the other decisions that have been taken and for which no corresponding national leadership has been given. The whole purpose of the National Health and Sickness Plan for us is precisely to provide more national leadership on how the offer will develop and thus give a more democratic anchor for these decisions than has been the case under the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e380	The Council of State does not answer the question, but I have received the answer before: the government does not want a national health and hospital plan to take decisions on emergency and food supply in the country. The government's response is contrary to the corporate law, it is contrary to what the government's representatives Bent Höie and Erna Solberg said in September, and it is contrary to the government's declaration. In Hordaland, we call this a 'covenant'. Here in Oslo one calls it a government council being run by the ministry. It surprises the Council of State that such a lack of political leadership leads to a loss of confidence among the population, for example: on Rjukan, which resulted in nearly 4,000 people going to the torch, and that hospital management had to call the police to secure their own situation before the meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e387	There are a number of fundamental errors in the question asked by the representative Toppe. Firstly, if her claim that my response to the Storting had been contrary to the corporate law, it must mean that the red-green government has ruled Health-Norway for eight years in violation of the Health Business Act. I'm assuming the representative Toppe doesn't mean it. I have always, both before and after the election, been very clear on the obvious: the situation cannot be in which to say yes or no to the establishment and closure of specific health services in individual hospitals. There has never been a Right's intention with a national health and hospital plan. However, what has been missing is a national plan that sets out the framework within which this type of decision is to be taken, for example: the quality objectives to be taken into account. It has been a challenge, and it has also been our goal with the National Health and Sickness Plan all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e399	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e402	It is a little difficult to grasp what the Council of State really means, but I understand that he now believes that it has never been the right intention that the Stortinget should decide on and have opinions about the emergency and food supply at the local hospitals. Then it's worth quoting once to what Bent Höie said during the campaign last year: Today the activists don't know where to turn, and whether they can go to Oslo and go on a torch. But with the policy of the Right, they can turn to their own politicians at Stortinget, who, with our model, will be responsible for the decisions. They don't have it today. The question remains: When people at Rjukan are upset and 5,000 in Flekkefjord are on trains to preserve Flekkefjord's hospital and emergency and food supply in Flekkefjord, where are they going to go? Can they address the Stortinget, or should the Stortinget be cut off from the possibility of having opinions on the emergency and food supply at the local hospitals in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e409	As I have now repeated in the answers to a number of questions: The population is going to be invited to believe something about both the emergency and the food supply in the national health and health plans. The food supply has not been very long since the Stortinget gave quite good leadership. That is why I have said that in the national health and health plan, we will give priority to raising the topic of ‘acute supply’. Our intention is that the National Health and Sickness Plan should be a rolling plan, presented to the Stortinget every four years. At that time, it is also natural to raise some issues more than the other themes in the different national health and health plans. In the first National Health and Sickness Plan, it is natural that emergency services and emergency services in Norway should be provided as the main theme. As far as the specific matter of Telemark is concerned, it is of course I who is responsible for the decisions taken there as well and assesses them against what is the government's policy. I will also do that after the hospital in Telemark has made its first decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e420	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e423	It is probably not just the Labour Party that is confused in this matter. Before the elections, the right-wing representatives Solberg and Höie made it clear that a national hospital plan was to be a detailed management tool, which was to describe the content, quality and tasks of the individual hospital from a central point of view. Now you talk about thank you and the price quite differently – more in line with what the Workers' Party believes, because the Council of State says that the members of the Government have traveled around for advice, just as former Health Ministers from the Workers' Party have done. Governments also talk with a little double voice about what's going to happen to the regional level. There is quite a lot of frustration and confusion about this issue, which was previously very unhappy by the former staging representative Bent Höie. What distinguishes the overall perspective of the Workers' Party from what Höie now says is his perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e434	I think that's going to be very clear to the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, when the new national health and health plan is presented and we put it next to the national health and care plan, as the previous government presented. The national health and care plan, as presented by the previous government, was a comprehensive description of the values and directions on which the whole health sector in Norway was to be built, both primary and specialist health services. The National Health and Sickness Plan will be a concrete and operational plan, leading the development of the specialist healthcare system in concrete terms; skills needs, investment needs and the competence requirements to be used for the development of the various services, with a special focus on emergency medicine. There will be concrete decisions on how health services in Norway will change and develop in the years to come, as opposed to the plan presented by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e443	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e446	When discussing the large health plan, one can quickly forget the smaller, but close, offers that are important to the population. It does not only concern long response times, long distances, emergency services and districts. An example of this is the Palliative Department in Ski in Follo – my constituency in Akershus. I have asked the Minister of Health several written questions about this. In one of the answers, the Council of State has said that the Health Directorate will prepare a report on how to organise palliative services in the future. This report shall be completed in December 2014. It is bad that Aarhus has already started the construction of the department in Ski, and that the municipality of Follo at the same time says that they have no offer for patients in the terminal phase. Does the Minister of Health think it's saving 6.8 million. kr, setting up a well-functioning department, despite the strong resistance of users, relatives, employees and politicians, reducing the number of places and creating longer travel routes for relatives and patients will strengthen the offer of terminal patients in Follo?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e455	This is about a specialised, palliative offer, which is not put down, but which is moved to Aarhus and collected, so that one gets an overall and much more robust environment of competence for these patients. Of course, it does not detract from the responsibility of the municipalities to also have a palliative offer to their citizens on the responsibility of the municipality in the care and care sector. But the specialised offer, for which hospitals are responsible, will now receive a reinforced offer by gathering it at Aarhus. That's the background for that change. It is quite right, as the representative says, that when it comes to how this offer is to develop in the future in Kommune-Norway, where the majority of the offer to these users and patients is to be, we have asked the Health Directorate to provide us with a status overview of what is offered today and not least how this is developing internationally – especially in the United Kingdom and Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e464	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e467	I said instead that I would wait to be concerned about the health care plan of the health minister became a little more concrete, and then he became a little more concrete, and then I became a little concerned, because I think the health minister is now quite clear that the health care plan will be unclear as to the completely leaping point of what kind of functions are to be found in the country. We now have a situation where the company Vestre Viken is waiting to make a decision on the local hospital at Kongsberg pending the hospital plan. Telemark does not choose to take the plan into account. So, as I understand the Minister of Health, the situation is still going to be that the Storting has no role in the debate on the importance of functions, and that the Minister of Health is coming in as an appeal body afterwards. Can the Minister of Health explain what will be the difference between the hospital activists and the employees of the hospitals in Telemark before and after the plan he intends to submit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e475	The big difference between the situation in Telemark and the West Viken is that in the West Viken there are no concrete plans for changes to the offer at Kongsberg hospital until one has built a new hospital in the Dramens region. This means that they have plenty of time to wait at national health and hospital level before deciding what will become the future offer for Kongsberg hospitals, after finishing a new hospital in the region, and of course there are quite a few more years left. There is no reason for them not to wait for the national leaders until they finally decide what is to be the offer at Kongsberg Hospital, but unlike the previous government, there is no plan to lay down the hospital at Kongsberg. As far as Telemark is concerned, it is a very concrete matter that comes to the fore. Once the hospital in Telemark has made its decision, I would have to assess whether it is in line with the government platform or not, but of course I cannot decide until they have made their decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e482	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e485	A month ago, the United Nations Panel on Climate Change presented its third and last interim report. It states that it is now that we need to take the big steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Directorate for the Environment has already assessed the instruments in place and says that the measures in the climate agreement are not enough to follow up the objective of the 30 pst climate agreement. reduction in CO2 emissions from 1990 levels to 2020. The transport sector is one of the sectors which can most easily help to close this gap. The Environment Directorate notes that more measures are needed to include traffic growth in urban areas by bicycle, walking and public transport. It has also been said several times, but the Environment Directorate stresses that the decision that has been taken is not enough to achieve this goal. Then we politicians have to show responsibility and implement the measures that are missing. Collective development is not only good for the climate, it is also good for people and business and positive and smart for the development of our urban areas. Several parties, including the Right at their national meeting this weekend, have arranged for the state to take at least 50 pst. of the bill in the case of large collective development. This is necessary in order for metropolitan areas to afford to operate and improve other collective services. The metropolitan areas are growing. By 2030, the four metropolitan areas of Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim will have a growth of 30-40 pst. in population. It requires large collective development in these areas. At the same time, there are many large-scale plans for collective development here: Busway in Trondheim and Stavanger that could possibly become urban railways, extension of the Urban Railway in Bergen, Fornebubane, new joint train and T-Bahn tunnel under Oslo – just to mention a few major projects in these urban areas. My question to the Minister for Transport is: Does the Council of State mean that the State should take at least 50 pst. of large investments in these four urban areas, and which projects will the Council of State give priority to providing public transport funding first?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e499	The answer to the question is in the government platform. Yes, the government has told us to contribute 50 pst. for infrastructure investments on large collective promises in the four largest cities. It is a commitment that is much stronger than any previous government has given, and I am very proud of that. We also have a very good dialogue with most of these cities to get good solutions in place. I have e.g. met with Oslo and Akershus about Fornebubanen. We've had a meeting with Bergen about the City Railway. We've met with people in Stavanger about Busway there. For some reason we have had poor contact with Trondheim, but we would like to see them also contact us, and we will have a good dialogue there. Getting these things in place provides predictability for the municipalities and county councils that are being affected, so that they can go ahead with planning. They can go further with both municipal plans and regulatory plans because the state has to be involved and set up. Of course, when the state makes up money, we'll also be involved in discussing the solutions, because one of the prerequisites here is that one continues around the nodes so that one gets more people who live and work so that they want to travel collectively when we build up public transport. There is no sense in having a very scattered population and building some large railway stations if people live so far away from them that they still take the car. We're also doing a lot of other things that are relevant to the question. We have said that we will try to double the take-offs on the southern runway. We want to extend the Tronderway down to Melhus. We do a lot in terms of the reward scheme for bus and public transport in cities. We're going to have a stronger bet on the driveway. We do a lot with the freight to do something with the emissions there. Getting more goods onto rail and ships over trucks is an important measure both for reducing CO2 emissions and for local urban pollution. We also see that the electric car policy has a very good effect in getting more people to drive cars like this. Over time it will also cut emissions, so it is important to have a diversity of responses and not just look at one.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e511	I thank the Council of State for its response, and for his firmness at 50 p.m. State funding, but my question was, therefore, about which projects were to be prioritised first. I would like to follow up by pointing out that, when examining the national transport plan in June 2013, the four bourgeois parties agreed that: ‘the State shall take a greater part of the split layer which forms the economic basis of Oslopackak 3 and the public transport services in and around Oslo. [[...]] In the long term, there is a need for a new centre ring for the T-Bahn including the Fornebu supply line. This project is essential to ensure sufficient capacity in the Oslo Region T-rail system in the years to come. The target must be at least 50 pst. [[...]] State share of major investments It's well written. The need for Fornebubane is obvious. In addition, 6 300 dwellings and several large jobs are planned. This 8.3 km long metro-standard T-rail will provide a good opportunity for large urban development areas. My question to the Council of State is: When will the Council of State ensure that the Fornebuban gets commitments and adequate appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e525	The fornebuban is an absolute priority, and we have had good dialogue with both Bærum and Oslo, which are regulatory authorities, to ensure that there is good contact with regard to progress and when to involve the State more committed. It's too early for me to say now when that happens, but what we're happy about is that both Oslo and Bærum seem to be good on track – probably a little ahead of the Oslo form – and that makes it possible for us to start building faster than we thought. It's also important that we have given this promise to take 50 pst. of the investments, making the two municipalities feel safer now to move forward with their work. There was much greater uncertainty during the previous government. We've now got rid of that uncertainty. It's also important that this is a bet that's going to happen in four cities. Now the representative is very concerned about the Fornebuban. I am also very concerned that we should find good solutions in Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger, and there will be slightly different progress plans. The important thing is that the state should not delay any of the progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e532	There will be follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e535	I want to ask you a question that concerns both my and the state council's home country, Rogaland. The Stavanger region is known as one of the four major urban areas where collective action is important, but the Stavanger region is perhaps the metropolitan area where one has come short. As the Council of State is well aware, there has been a discussion in the region about whether to choose Busway or the city railway. A large majority of the municipalities wanted the city track, while one voice was overweight on the county chain until Busway. The assumptions have now changed as the government — and now the most recent National Council of the Right — has been clear at 50 p.m. financing by the State. One of the reasons for going in for Busway was precisely the costs. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council reconsider the question of the urban runway if the county council in Rogaland is now making a new decision on the urban runway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e544	The Stavanger region is one of the strong growth centres in Norway. It's important that we get better transport solutions than those that are today. Today there is a disproportionate amount of queue on the road, to and from Stavanger, but also in the region. Even some of the oil companies have set up a branch office in Bryne, because the line from Bryne to Stavanger – it is three miles to drive – is normally so long that much time goes by. It shouldn't be like that. It's important that we find a total of good solutions. The railway has been put on a lot lately. The previous government did it. We're going to continue that. We've started planning beyond what's now completed. There is a long discussion about the urban or bus route. I base the decisions that have been made locally – and that concerns the bus route. I know that the left more than would like to have a different solution. But I think it's important that we now get on with this and get good solutions. I consider the bus route to be a good solution locally, which provides a good transport offer. Then we'll have to live with this on rubber wheels and not iron wheels.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e551	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e554	Collective action in cities is also about clean air, except for increased mobility. Although some have pointed to the pollution caused by the production of electric cars, batteries, etc., there is no doubt that electric cars contribute to cleaner air, if the option is petrol or diesel. The size agreement has guaranteed that the tax advantages for electric cars will continue until we have 50000 zero-emission cars on the roads or until the end of 2017. Today’s use of the instrument has created safety in the instrument market for some years, but we are now recording that uncertainty is linked to what is going to happen after 2017 or before, if the electric car market reaches 50,000 units before 2017. Can the Council of State guarantee predictability in this area and, where appropriate, work to extend the period beyond 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e560	I can guarantee that we will follow up on what is in the climate agreement. It means having a tax advantage on the purchase, either until 2017 or until 50 000 cars have been sold. What happens next is in fact up to the Storting to adopt, preferably on the initiative of the government. But it's the Big Thing that's made the decisions. I think it's natural that the Stortinget also discusses how to extend this. Electric cars have a very good effect, especially in the case of local urban pollution. That means a lot. In the case of CO2 emissions, the learnt can argue about the effect it produces, a little depending on the kind of mix you have in the power system. But that this is part of the future, is quite clear. I even think it's very exciting, what's happening in the electric car industry. What is important at the same time, when selecting instruments, is how long there is a need for a tax incentive to make it attractive to buy an electric car. Some of the electric cars that have been on the market over the last three to four years in Norway, which have a significant market share, have fallen in price from around EUR 15 million. 250000 kroner when they were introduced, to 160 000–170 000 kroner now. It shows that technology development itself has helped to reduce prices and has thus in the long term reduced the need to provide economic incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e572	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e575	The main question was about the path to Fornebu, but the same applies to the path to Aarhus, northwards to Lørenskog from Oslo, and other urban areas – Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim, where the state will contribute 50 pst. Some have track projects, some have bus projects. There is great impatience both here in the house and out to get started. I'm not asking if there's going to be 50 pst. State contributions, for that I see as perfectly clear, both in the government declaration and in what is promised by the government parties – not least what was said at the Røjre national meeting. The impatience is, as I said, great, in fact so great that he who asked the main question is so eager to build urban railways that he almost promises 50 pst. State contributions even where urban railway construction is not planned. We're all taking that as a positive. I think it's cross-political agreement to get started. But the question is, when will the confirmation come to Oslo and Akershus, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim about 50 p.m. State contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e580	I think this was a strange question, because the representative Myrli says that he assumes that this policy will apply. That is when the confirmation has already arrived. The government has fixed it in the government platform. Then we do not have to send our own letters. What is important is that we cooperate with each municipality or county, where relevant, to implement this in a practical way. I am very pleased that the Labour Party supports this policy. What this government and our cooperation parties have founded is far more offensive than what the previous government wanted. The fact that the Workers' Party is so clearly supporting it means that it can be assumed that they will support it in the annual budgets. Then we've come a lot further than where we were last year at this time. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e587	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e590	Climate and environment are very important at a time when, at some times of the year, it is a major challenge in big cities. There is a need to do something about prosperity. But there has been an uncertainty after the opinions that have fallen on the national meetings of the Right and the Advance Party, on how this is to be financed. In the past, the Council of State has been very clear in this Chamber that the priorities of the national transport plan are firmly established. But I'm noticing that there's a lot of people out there wanting to turn the use of money against the East, against the big cities and projects between the big cities. Can the Council of State say anything more about how to think this is funded? Can the State Councils continue to guarantee that the priorities of the National Transport Plan remain firm?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e595	This government has said that we should have infrastructure as one of our major areas of activity. We have said that we should overcomply with the national transport plan. It's simply because the Right Party and the Advance Party agree with almost all the priorities that lay there, but we wanted even more when we were in opposition. When we're in position, we can actually deliver on it. We're very happy about that. We're going to implement what's in the neighbourhood, and we've got district-oriented measures. We've also said that when we're going to further speed up projects, we're going to put a lot of emphasis on the commuter everyday life of people -- the trip you take 200 times a year. That's what we're going to do when we're building a railway, and when we're building better roads. The other underlying issue is freight transport and transport between the major cities. There is also a lot of good district policy. Ensuring that fishing industries and other production establishments located regionally and regionally are more easily placed on the markets is of great importance for maintaining housing and industrial development in the districts. So both parts will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e604	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e607	I register that what is on the government platform of 50 pst. to the largest cities of the collective project, now limited to the four largest cities. So this doesn't apply to cities like Drammen, Kristiansand, Fredrikstad and Tromsø. Therefore, urban environment agreements, which also apply to all cities, are becoming more important. When we presented the previous national transport plan, it contained a greenhouse gas bill, which showed that the transport plan could provide significant emissions reductions by 2020. The most important step in this context was urban environmental agreements. There was a lot of professional support. ‘These are the right measures’ said Tor Homleid in Vista Analysis. ‘I think the grips the Government is warning are the ones that can reverse development,’ said the leader of Urban Analysis. The previous government gave this financial support, but we demanded results in terms of reduced emissions and increased collective share in order to get the money paid. Will the government implement the urban environment agreements agreed in Stortinget? When can we wait to get them in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e612	Let me first try to clarify: it has always been clear from this government that the infrastructure investment 50:50 only applies to the four major cities. There's nothing that comes out now. We have been very clear about this all along, both in debates and at conferences – including in previous debates in the United Kingdom. Then to the urban environmental agreements. We have assumed that there are nine urban areas to have it, including the four, that will receive 50:50 support. We're aiming to implement it. We have ongoing dialogue with all the relevant cities, both with those who are in a start-up process to renew them, and with those who have had it for a long time, and who are to discharge their obligations. At the same time, we've said that it's a little inappropriate to have a lot of different programs, which are really going to do the same in the same areas. This is why we want to bring together more of the instruments used in a scheme of urban environmental agreements. This means that we want to bring the reward scheme for public transport into the urban environment agreements. The same applies to bicycles and corridors, to have one tool instead of many competing in the same place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e619	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e623	It is also important to be concrete in the debate on major transport instruments and framework conditions. One of the most promising concrete instruments for short-range transport in cities and agglomerations is electric bicycles. With a lot of use of electric bicycles, you will gain a lot of public health, you can gain a lot of traffic, you will get much less pollution, etc., etc. But electric bicycles, of course, are an instrument that needs to be stimulated. Then it is interesting to see that the government has now announced a tax cut on recreational suspension engines that is a 90 million gift. kr to people who can already afford to buy a large suspension motor. Does the Minister for Transport, in the light of his eagerness to use tax cuts as a stimulus in transport policy and in the light of the very promising opportunities offered by electric bicycles, consider cutting VAT on electric bicycles?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e628	The fact that we remove the horsepower charge on suspension engines does not mean that a person removes the VAT on suspension engines. I think that one should have a predictable and simple VAT code, it is good that there is a minimum exemption. On the other hand, I have a great deal of faith in a motorcycle as a tool. Some people will ride a tricycle regardless of the weather – honor them for it, they are also important contributors – but for some people it is to be able to get to work without being sweaty like a more important advantage than the bike itself. Electric bicycles will help more people to cycle and find it convenient and thus want to take it instead of a car. But we've already seen just the last year that the sales of electric bicycles have been more than doubled. I'm going to participate in campaigns to promote, so that people become aware of it. But we haven't discussed having VAT exemptions on it at this time. We see that the market has already begun to respond to the fact that the offer is better and prices are lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e635	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e638	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The new main report to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change demonstrates the seriousness of the climate problem to an even greater extent than we have previously known. I think maybe I have to sum it up in three points: first, that we are even more certain that the warming is essentially man-made; second, that the consequences are even more serious than we know from before – for humans, for the environment, but also for future value creation – and thirdly, that the solutions are there and are possible, but that it is even more urgent because the evolution of emissions globally over the last few years has gone in the wrong direction. At the same time, the Directorate for the Environment has presented its analysis to Norway. He shows that many measures work, such as: on passenger cars – that emissions go down slightly in Norway, but that we have a very long time left. It's, as the representative Raja said, a gap of presumably eight million tons, if we base the development, in relation to where we're going to be in 2020. We have a constant climate deal, but we know that's not enough. So the government has announced a strengthening of the climate agreement in the government platform, but we know that there is not enough to reach it either. Both the climate agreement and the reinforcement are far from what is necessary to achieve our common objective in 2020. For this reason, I wonder – as transport increases and accounts for a quarter of the total emissions – what the Minister for Transport has in order to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in its field by what is necessary. Let me make it clear: we have a lot of measures in the climate agreement – urban environmental agreements, electric cars and others we've been in – and that's all right. We also have someone else who is alerted. My question is: What does the Minister for Transport want – what plan does he have for what we have to do in addition to what we have to do in the field of transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e649	I am very pleased that we are going to have good solutions where the previous government has not been able to deliver enough. Let me go into some of the things we're doing. One is to ensure that we transport our goods with less emissions, unless traffic accidents and with less traffic in cities. That is why we have launched a reform in the rail sector to improve infrastructure. It means being able to invest more in the long term and maintain better. That is why we have established, inter alia: the infrastructure fund, which will be the designation of some of our oil assets for maintenance. This makes it easier for the Railway Agency to plan its maintenance. The reason why this is important is that rail predictability – on passenger transport, but not least on freight – can be increased by one more of the goods transported on rail. There has been a failed development lately. Then we also want to give priority to commuting in and out of the cities, in and out of the towns. That's why all the parties on the Stortinget agree – I think – on the intercity bet, but we're going to further intensify that effort by now accelerating the planning of the extension of the Jærbanen, we've done the grip that makes the Sørlandsbanen double the number of takeoffs, that one prolongs the Tronderbanen pendulum – that kind of thing. Making sure people get a better offer that makes them want to travel collectively, instead of whipping them in, I think is the way one gets success. This is why we have also said that making it more attractive to travel collectively — for example. by getting a stake in telecommunications, so that a wireless network is provided on board buses and trains – is an important part of that strategy. Then we have also started what we discussed just now: a stronger state commitment to contribute to infrastructure development – bus, local train or T-Bahn, possibly urban railway, in cities – again to provide a better offer. A lot happens when it comes to emissions from road transport in the car sector. It is foreign car companies that are making progress, but the electric car policy, on which the previous government was also good, has continued, and the CO2 emissions per car are lower than ever when you look at the new car sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e667	I thank you for your answer. The Minister of Transport said nothing wrong, but he said absolutely nothing either – I believe – about what could reduce emissions by 2020 beyond what is already agreed. The changes in planning – yes, it may give effect once in 2025, and the other thing he's talking about is already agreed. The problem is, if we're going to achieve our goals, we have to do a lot -- much more than what all of us parties have been able to achieve. There's kind of a fact on the table. We have some suggestions for what we can do as well. The Directorate for the Environment has suggested: additional strengthening of CO2 levels in the entry fee, providing plug-in hybrids with access to parking and charging, strengthening Transnova. But the real promise, of course, will be to really turn around the big cities, beyond what we've done now. So I ask again, does the Minister for Transport have a plan, or at least any thoughts, about what he will do in addition to what is agreed, which can work before 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e677	My plan takes a little more than two minutes to tell about. So there's going to be a lot of things that I'd more than ever want to communicate with, but I took the main lines here. What I want to strongly warn against is to have the approach that the previous government had taken: because it was urgent to do something short-sighted, about a one-off charge on cars, so that it suddenly poured out diesel cars in Norwegian cities. These are the problems we are now trying to solve with regard to local environmental pollution, and where we have actually been told by the EU that we are exceeding the requirements, which is a huge challenge now in many places. We have to have solutions that make one actually do this in the long term, and that's why it's the long-term approach I have. So it may be that it means that one does not get as much emissions cut by 2020 as SV would want, but one gets a community that is connected, and one gets a better use of resources. I am more concerned about what emissions you have in 2030 than in 2020. I want to think in the long term, and then a few people need a good resource use. The approach that the red-greens had, by whipping people in, I don't think I'm working, because in the fight between saving the world and picking up the kindergarten wins the kindergarten every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e686	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e689	This isn't about the whip, it's about having some tempo in the work. The minister points out that we have to think in the long term, but the question is: does anyone have ideas or thoughts about what is going to happen in the short term? Then I'm going to give the Minister one free of charge: aviation. Internal aviation accounts for about 8 pst. by emissions, but if we look at the climate impact of Nordic trips inland and abroad, aviation accounts for 50 pst. As the Minister knows, aviation is not part of the quota system or any other functioning international regime. So my question to the Minister is – to be concrete and give him the opportunity to make concrete: What will the Minister for Transport do to reduce emissions in domestic aviation and also contribute to lower emissions from aviation in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e694	I think I've been very specific about a lot of grips that we're doing now. There are measures that will improve the collective provision in cities, which the previous government did not add, but which we have started – which obviously also have the support of the red-green parties. I'm glad. This applies, for example: The grips we're doing on the Southern Railway and the Trønderbanen. The rate at which the State takes 50:50 of the investment costs of collective development was not included in the national transport plan. There's something this government has said it should do. That's very concrete. Although these are things that take time to implement – simply because it takes time to build the Fornebuban – it will happen faster now than it did before. As far as aviation is concerned, it's a little interesting to get that question from a party that has been in government for eight years. The Prime Minister of that government said that when he rented a helicopter to run an election campaign, the CO2 emissions were not a theme, because he paid the CO2 fee for the fuel. As a result, he had covered the costs of CO2 emissions. Then I think that when there was an explanation that was good enough for the previous government, where SV put, it would also be an explanation that I use. The investment in biofuels through Avinor, I think, is very important. There you cut emissions, not just pay taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e714	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e718	Since it would not seem at all that the Minister of Labour was unemployed, my question goes to the Council of State Eriksson. The two government parties have now carried out their national meetings. At both national meetings, the future of the welfare society was discussed. The following was adopted at the national meeting of the Progress Party: ‘Norway has the world’s best sick leave system, but also one of Europe’s highest sick leave. The Party considers that measures should be taken to reduce sick leave. Change in basic amount, introduction of qualifying days and reduction in sick pay are actions The Progress Party believes that should be assessed.’ At the Court’s national meeting, proposals were discussed to introduce three waiting days and reduce the compensation rate to 62 pst. in the sick pay scheme. Among other things, adopted commercialisation of the employment service. Previously, we know what the Right believes about more use of temporary employment, job protection and working time. We know that the government's support party Left wants to cut the sick pay scheme and the AFP scheme, which is described in detail in the budget setting for this year. The fact is that although we are not in the finish line, sick leave has fallen in recent years, which is also confirmed by today's outlook in today's business. The social partners and the state have recently concluded a new IA agreement. It is assumed that current arrangements will not be weakened. Will the Council of State respect the agreement between the employees and employers to keep the sick pay scheme out of its current period, i.e. out of 2018, or will he follow up the desire of the Progress Party to attack the rights of most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e736	Thank you for the question, and thank you for the fact that there are people who think about the Minister of Labour, so that you do not leave him alone. I appreciate that. Firstly, it is clear from the government platform that the sickness pay system is in place. I and the government are governed by the government statement, so I can guarantee that the sickness pay system is stable during this IA period. On 4 March I signed an agreement with the social partners. This is one of the things that comes out well and clearly in the IA agreement. It is true that sick leave tends to go up and down, at regular intervals. Then it is right that the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, points out that sick leave has gone down. I think that's very positive -- very happy -- but it's still important to keep the pressure up through what we've agreed on in the IA agreement, in order to get the sick leave further down. There are still a number of sectors that are struggling with high levels of sick leave. I think it is important to follow these sectors closely, find good tools with the social partners, to reduce sick leave. I believe we have made that clear with the new IA agreement. One of the examples that can be referred to a new IA agreement, which I believe will also improve the follow-up to sick leave, is this: now we move the focus of Nav – from focusing on the paper pile and focusing on simplifying the follow-up to sick leave. There will be 1,500 fewer forms to be delivered to Nav every day. It's positive. That's good. That means that 69 employees in Nav are now not allowed to do the paperwork. They can make a greater effort — using their resources, their work capacity — to follow up the individual in a good and correct way, in order to succeed in returning to work more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e747	I thank you for your answer. It was concrete when it came to the most specific part of the question. I then assume that the agreement will expire in 2018, that at least there will be no attack on the sick pay scheme during that period. Governments underline the role of the parties. It is incredibly important for all the objectives of the agreement and for the stability of working life. In the context of the IA Agreement, there was a discussion as to whether extended access to temporary employment should be introduced. It was not part of the discussion related to the IA agreement, but it was up in that context. I could imagine asking the Council of State the same question here: Will the Council of State learn from the experience gained from those in other countries who have tried temporary employment – that it does not work, that youth unemployment is getting bigger? Will the Council of State learn from it and remove the proposal for extended access to temporary employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e756	No, the Council of State will not give away the declaration of government. Governments are very concerned to ensure that we help more people get into the workplace, help more people get a connection to the world of work. The SSB report shows – as I have said several times from this pulpit – that two-thirds of those who started temporary employment, who have been temporarily employed, after two years of permanent employment. That means that this is a springboard to get into work – I want it to be a good springboard to get into work. It is important to me – as I have also said before – that we both sit down with the parties and that the parties become involved in how we implement the government platform. I intend to implement the points on the government platform. I think this is also what the Norwegian people expect us to do – that is on the basis that they sent us into the government offices. I think it's about finding good, neat ways to discuss with the parties how it's going to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e765	It opens for one follow-up question – Anette Trettebergstuen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e768	In the revised state budget, presented today, the government proposes changes in the follow-up to sick leave. Among other things, they must start work on so-called normised health care messages. You set a limit of six months of paperwork. The experience with normal medical applications in Sweden shows that very many people are sent back to work before they are healthy, but many are also sick at home when they could be at work. There is a difference between working in an archive and working in a bar if you suffer from, for example. social anxiety. When the Workers' Party, SV and the Senter Party put in government and negotiated the previous IA agreement, we introduced something we called ‘Professional Guides for Health Caregivers’, precisely because we saw that they would have a more similar practice for health care. The doctor was still going to make an individual assessment of how long people needed to be sick. If Councillor Eriksson agrees with that and that's what he's adding up to today, what's the government adding up to that that's new and that we didn't introduce? But if...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e779	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e782	... there's something new, and there's a form to override the judgment of doctors, what makes a bureaucrat...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e787	Councillor Eriksson, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e790	... with a form knows better than the patient, doctor and employer together?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e795	I did not get the very question quite clearly, but to say it this way: I think that introducing decision-making tools and an auxiliary tool for doctors in the follow-up to the search report and in the assessment of the health care programme is important. I think it's right to get a closer and more accurate follow-up of the individual subject, to get a faster follow-up on this. This is not part of the IA agreement. What we have announced – as the representative of the Trettebergstuen was inside – is that we start working. Then, when that work is done, we will come back to how this is to be implemented, how it should be arranged, and how it should be followed up. We also intend to involve the social partners in a good way. It was discussed with the parties when we discussed the IA agreement. We agreed that we should find an appropriate way to involve the parties in how this should be implemented. What we're doing now is starting work to figure out how to create a system around this with decision support tools and how to implement it. And then we'll get back to what it actually becomes when it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e805	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e817	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Care on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left. Question 8, from the representative Jenny Klinge to the Minister for Justice and Defence, is addressed by the representative Geir Inge Lien. Questions 10 and 11 from the representatives of Irene Johansen and Liv Signe Navarsete respectively to the Minister of Defence must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien to the Minister of Knowledge, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e841	Then I read the written question that has been sent about: ‘The sales of a motorcycle have increased from approx. 4 000 in 2013 to about 8 000 bicycles this year. Electric bicycles are a good alternative to cars on short trips in urban areas and agglomerations, promoting both the environment and public health. The Transport Economics Institute, the Cyclattes Landsforening and the State Road Administration have had a research project that has shown that women and young people under 25 in particular are interested in using electric bicycles and that those who want to have electric bicycles are not like bicycles from before. What will the Council of State do to promote the use of electric bicycle?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e848	We've discussed this a little bit already, but let me elaborate on the fact that I have a great sense of a motorcycle, because I think it brings bicycles to many of those who today don't bike, just because the physical shape doesn't make it so much fun, or just because they're in a transport stage where they prefer to get into a "sweet" state. We have asked Transnova in our award letter this year to make it more attractive for electric bicycles, and priority is given to measures that promote electric bicycles. These include: that they support a project called ‘Gi cycle et dynamite’, which will make the electric bicycle more familiar in Norway. I believe an entry that was on the NRK from Sørlandsenden now for approx. And a month and a half ago, who showed a little good adult ladies who had suddenly found the bike joy again, because they could now ride around in Kristiansand, get help in the uphills, but otherwise get out with their own trail, show that this is a very exciting grip. Measures that make it more familiar, we'll be very positive to. I know that someone is discussing VAT exemptions and the type of grip. We can always evaluate that, but I don't think the effect is necessarily that big, because then you'll also ask why you should have a reward for those who don't totally go all the way. An individual shall always be limited to the time when the VAT measure is to be effective. I think this is more about making the product known than saving a few thousand copies, as a VAT change would have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e857	I agree with the Council of State that electric bicycles are very fun. I was actually very skeptical -- I've been riding a lot on a regular bike, and I was very skeptical until I tried it myself a few years ago. It gives you such an incredibly delicious aha experience, so I'm very happy that we're going to get more organized for this. Electric bicycle is good. The objective of the national transport plan is that any increase in transport resulting from population growth should be carried out by collective, bicycle and gangways. In Switzerland, 60,000 electric bicycles are sold annually, and the aim must be to help people get their eyes up for electric bicycles in Norway as well. The Progress Party, together with the Left, has fought for tax deductions for the employer to pay collective cards, and we get hope that we will realize the same period as this. The right spoke about VAT exemptions on electric bicycles at their national meeting. Is the council willing to think anything more in these paths, even though I hear him being a little skeptical? What other incentive schemes could the Council of State have in mind in order to make people choose bicycles instead of cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e866	I'm open to all good suggestions, but I also want them to be genuine good and actually have a result. It's a question of thinking out loud that e.g. enterprises could at least get an incentive to offer it to their employees in this way. Here you get to be creative and come up with your suggestions. I have also experienced the joy of the electric bike, not even myself, but I know that people – when I ride uphill – can whistle lightly and cheerfully when they bike past me because of the auxiliary engine. Many often compare the bicycle joy one has in Denmark, with the challenges one has in Norway. Now Denmark is a very flat area. This – in addition to adding the right road and also the fact that you do not have uphill slopes – makes it very convenient for people to use the bike in everyday life. The electric bicycle can also contribute to this in Norway by getting it help up the knee that makes people come out without being sweaty and worn out. And I've seen – that time is up. We can talk more...?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e873	Denmark is flat, but Switzerland is not as flat, and there are 60,000 bikes in Switzerland. If we do this in Norway, I am sure that over time it will bring significant reductions in our emissions, especially in the transport sector. I would like to follow up on the fact that in the budget agreement last year, between the Left, the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party, we agreed on a reward scheme for bicycle measures in the municipalities. This would be an opportunity, for example: for municipalities to facilitate the use of electric bicycles by means of lending schemes or charging facilities and to obtain support for this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e880	Yes, an absolute must not exclude it. Here I can invite the Stortinget to give more guidance on how they want the reward scheme to be when it starts next year. I think that the type of grip that is especially directed at electric bicycles can have an effect. It may also have the effect of aligning the scheme more closely with voluntary groups that create enthusiasm, for example. Cycle to the job action and that kind of action. Here it's really good if Stortinget contributes. What I was going to say right now is that what's important to me right now is to make sure that regulation and regulation don't make it difficult to use electric bicycles, because there's a limit here for when a motorized vehicle is defined as mopeds, and then a suddenly completely different requirement. That's why we now have a review to make sure that the regulations here do not prevent the use of electric bicycles. It's important. We don't intend to make it difficult, so we also have to make sure that the law is in line with the developments we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e887	Then is the time for the exchange of pleasant memories of electric bicycles.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e894	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Care on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e897	My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment, to be answered by the Minister for Health, is this: ‘It is known that Norway has been accused by ESA of breach of the Air Quality Directive due to high local air pollution in some of the major cities such as Oslo and Bergen. In order to combat this, cities need more effective instruments. One measure that has been significant in other major cities in Europe is the introduction of low-emission zones requiring only low-emission or no-emission vehicles to be used in specific areas. Will the government go in to provide the municipalities with legal support to introduce such low-emission zones?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e904	Despite a general downward trend in emissions levels in Norway, the ESA case illustrates that we still have challenges in this area. The responsibility for air quality lies at several levels. The EU sets out exhaust gas requirements included in Norwegian legislation. Since the first requirements came in 1989, these have contributed to significant improvements. Furthermore, the State is responsible for charging policy. The annual fee is differentiated according to emissions for both light and heavy duty vehicles. The conversion of the 2007 one-off tax has contributed to a reduction of CO2 emissions from the new passenger cars by around one third. At the same time, this has given us more diesel cars and higher emissions of NO2. Municipalities are pollution authorities according to local air quality legislation. This includes, inter alia: that the municipalities are responsible for ensuring compliance with the limit values laid down in the pollution regulation. In addition, municipalities are in their capacity as road owners responsible for the emissions from municipal roads. The state road authority is responsible for the emissions from the national road network as a weighing agent. Purification, salinisation and environmental limits to keep particulate matter levels down have produced good results. In addition, the State has an important role to play in facilitating the provision of sufficient space for local authorities to implement measures. The State has contributed indirectly by allowing municipalities to introduce measures such as cow pricing, increased tolls on days of high air pollution, environmental limit values, temporary traffic control measures in case of risk of exceedances of the limit values and the adoption of a peak tyre charge. Several municipalities have already implemented a number of measures, and in Kristiansand and Trondheim, a drug-free charge has been introduced. In Bergen and Oslo, there has been a heavy-duty charge. In order to meet the local air quality challenges, I believe it is essential that the State and the municipalities have a good dialogue and move in the same direction. I am aware that low-emission zones are an instrument that is requested by the municipalities. In concrete terms, low-emission zones are an instrument belonging to the Ministry of Transport. We know that heavy-duty vehicles are responsible for a substantial part of the emissions. Many of these are foreign, especially in Oslo, where you have the biggest problems. This presents some practical challenges that need to be taken into account in the design of any low-emission zones, in order to maximise their targeting, efficiency and fairness, and without excessive administrative costs. I am concerned that in the future we will ensure that the air quality in cities is good enough. Here, we need to assess which measures are targeted, including the need to introduce additional instruments. The new Euro 6 requirements for vehicles currently appear to have a very beneficial effect, especially for heavy-duty vehicles, and therefore, in a few years’ time, exhaust requirements will significantly improve air quality. But we have to recognise that the quality of air in cities is a challenge that has health implications here and now. It is therefore important to also work on measures that can be introduced and have a short-term impact. In this context, we will also be dependent on the use of all existing instruments by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e929	I thank you for a very informative response from the Council of State. What is the problem, which I would like it to be more focused on, is that the limit values for the local, harmful exhaust gases are regularly exceeded today. At the eleven measuring stations in Oslo, from Smestad to Manglerud and through the Oslo centre and upwards in the Grorud Valley, the average NO2 level was 50 pst. above limit values in 2013, according to NILU reports. So this is something that's urgent. As the Council of State said, the municipalities are asking for the possibility to use low-emission zones, so I would like to repeat the question: does the Council of State and the government have a positive attitude to go to the step of providing the basis for low-emission zones, so that local assessments can be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e939	Incredibly, it may seem as if the Southlanding Environment Minister is talking faster than the Westlanding Minister for Health, so I was not able to complete my entire answer. So I'm going to read the last paragraph that might give a better answer to that question: The Ministry of Climate and Environment will, together with other departments and agencies concerned, come to a closer assessment of the use of the instrument. If necessary, municipalities will also be involved in the work. This work will assess both local instruments and instruments at national level. Based on this review, the changes that should now be implemented in order to reach EU limit values will be considered. So this is one of the measures that will then be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e948	I also thank you for the final part of the answer. It is a major problem for municipalities that ESA imposes legally binding requirements that the municipalities are responsible for following up, as the council also referred to it from the law. Such situation is in Oslo, with 50 pst. exceedance of NO2 in central parts of the city, which concerns a large proportion of the population, it is clear that it is difficult to see that we are going to be able to intervene and reduce the level of pollution without new instruments. I agree that the municipality has to assess all available resources today, but I hope that the government will also see very quickly the need to clarify whether such low-carbon zones will be possible. It is widely used in cities in countries such as Germany, Italy, England, the Netherlands, Denmark and also in Sweden, so with Norway as a leading nation, it should also come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e956	Then I don't know if Höie has another passage he hasn't jerked off to read.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e959	No, but I'll try to answer. The point is that we cannot draw a conclusion on this here and now, but this is one of the measures that will be assessed – also in cooperation with the municipalities. Road traffic is the main source of exceedance, and in the longer term it will also contribute to the reduction of local air pollution by clean vehicles and increased bets on public transport, bicycles and bicycles. However, in the short term, further action needs to be taken. It is important that local authorities also use existing instruments, such as: cow pricing, time-differentiated tariffs in existing tolls on days at risk of exceeding limit values, or date-traffic. There are good examples in both Kristiansand, Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo that some of the measures already available have been used.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e970	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Finnish hospital HF has been billed for very high amounts from a private treatment provider – Psychia AS – with which HELFO has agreed in connection with deadlines for mentally ill patients. The Finnish Hospital does not have a deadline for these patients today. Nevertheless, patients in Finnmark cannot be returned to treatment in the county’s own hospital. HELFO is important in assisting patients who experience a break in deadlines, but this example suggests weaknesses in legislation and practice. What will the Council of State do to prevent such cases as we have seen here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e979	The health region is obliged to ensure that the population of the health region is provided with specialist health services. This includes, inter alia: ensuring that patients who are entitled to the necessary health care receive the necessary health care within the individual deadline. In the event of a delay, the patient may apply to HELFO for help to implement the right at the expense of the health business. When the hospital cannot give an hour by the deadline, HELFO uses patient care on average seven calendar days from the date of registration until the patient has been given an hour by a new patient care provider from HELFO. It takes an average of 20 days from the date of registration until the patient is on treatment. In 2013, Stortinget adopted amendments to the Patient and User Rights Act, such as: means that it is the hospitals – not the patient – that are to give a message to HELFO if they are unable to fulfil the legal deadline for providing health care at the latest. This amendment will be introduced during 2015. The purpose of the time-limiting system is to comply with the patient’s right to the necessary health care. Hospitals that have not been able to provide the patient with health care within the deadline must cover the costs of health care. It is not part of the time-limits system that patients should be returned to the hospital that has broken the time-limit. The time-limit infringement mechanism is established for the benefit of the patient — not in the interests of healthcare. Providers with whom HELFO has a contractual obligation to provide all services in accordance with the recognised methods and quality standards applicable. The supplier shall cooperate with the referee, other specialist health services and, where appropriate, other partners in order to ensure consistent treatment and follow-up. The supplier shall also design the treatment offer so that the needs and assumptions of the individual can be taken into account. This is not least important in the area of mental health protection. In order to ensure better quality and practices related to the mental health and drug treatment agreements managed by HELFO, HELFO has been given the task of establishing a quality and quality management system for suppliers of these subsidiary treatment services. The follow-up shall ensure that the processing is of satisfactory quality throughout the contract period. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will follow up this work in its governance dialogue with the Health Directorate. There must be consideration for the patient who is the leader in what offers we offer. Not least for patients who have received the additional burden of having experienced a break in deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e994	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I'm 100 pst. agree with the Council of State that consideration is given to the patients to be counted. But the arguments in this case are not that it is primarily the patients who are served with this offer. The arguments are that you have somehow tied to the mast, so that you cannot break the contract you have made with this private supplier on very short notice. As I understand it, many private providers – including this one – also have no cooperation with the primary health service, which is very important in order to provide a very good and best possible offer to these patients. So as I see it, the table captures. There is something in the legislation that makes it impossible to bring patients back, even if you might see that patients are well served with it. Then my question is: will the Council of State look at whether to clean up the situation as it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1001	For patients, it is important to have a well-connected course of treatment. The fact that the healthcare company should have some rights related to interrupting a patient’s course of treatment because it has suddenly gained free capacity when it was initially unable to fulfil the patient’s rights, I believe it is putting the healthcare system in front of the individual patient. There must be consideration for the patient who is critical and the patient's own wishes. As a rule, it is not desirable for the patient to interrupt a treatment course when one has first started, but to finish it until one should return to the municipality. Those who have an agreement with HELFO must also cooperate with the municipalities and facilitate a good transfer to the municipalities when the treatment in the specialist health service is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1006	I was a little depressed about the Minister of Health's answer, because I don't feel we're talking about the patient's best in this case, and we're 100 pst. agree that is important. Seeing that the patient needs an adequate offer at the local hospital, in cooperation with the primary health service, for example, it seems to me that the table is catching, that the legislation makes it impossible to go back to the public hospital. My question is, who is assessing the patient's situation? Is it the decision maker, is it the private caregiver who makes very good money, or is it the other part of health care? This is very difficult to get hold of, and I see that this arrangement, if you don't clean it up, can mean that the patient becomes a throwball. I don't think I want that. I don't want it. I don't want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1013	I have not registered that patients have made contact because they want to interrupt a treatment course with someone where they have been granted their right to be returned to the institution that did not honour the right. If this is an initiative from the patient, that the patient wants to get treatment at the place that was at first unable to give the patient treatment, and one is being denied it, I think it's a real problem. But if it is the case that the hospital that was unable to honour the patient's right, suddenly gets free capacity, and then will require the patient to come back and thus have to interrupt their course of treatment, I believe it would be wrong. It would be contrary to our thinking about the patient's healthcare, that one should have a coherent healthcare service. Then one wouldn't put the patient first, but put the health system first. It must be that health businesses have clear motivation — and hospitals have clear motivation — for the first time to exercise the patient’s rights. If they fail to do so, it is the patient’s concern that means that they will receive treatment from a private subcontractor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1022	«The right said in the election campaign to the Official Journal of Bergen on 2 September 2013 that they wanted an NTP for hospitals, as we have a plan for transportation. On the following day, in the United Nations on 3 September 2013, one could read that Right said: ‘It is the people elected to adopt plans for changes in emergency and food supply, through the planned health and health plan’. Will the Council of State define the tasks for each individual hospital also locally, in the new Health and Sickness Plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1029	The Government’s Health and Hospital Plan will provide the Storting with a good status overview of the challenges facing specialist health services and enable the Stortinget to take the main decisions on how to develop healthcare. The plan shall outline the general principles for the development and organisation of hospitals and other specialist health services. It shall be developed on the basis of the patient’s needs, based on up-to-date knowledge and on the strategies and plans developed in the health regions. The Health and Sickness Plan shall describe the different types of current hospitals with a focus on patient-experienced quality and quality of treatment, capacity, efficiency, division of responsibilities and tasks, interaction with municipal health and care services and the need for local community security and preparedness. With this plan, the government wants to outline national principles and frameworks for different types of hospital and hospital structure. Thereafter, health authorities are required to comply with the principles of professional criteria and quality requirements that can be imposed on the establishments in the future. In my national health and hospital plan, I will not add that the Stortinget will define the tasks of the individual specific hospital, or the location of the individual hospital in the country. Health enterprises will continue to be responsible for planning and implementing the development and conversion work necessary to meet the national principles and leadership laid down by the Stortinget through a national health and hospital plan. The size must not take over the responsibilities of the board and the management of health businesses. I want the Storting to have a greater importance in taking the overall decisions, where we are guaranteed a more democratic anchoring of the development of the specialist health service. However, health businesses must be able to carry out both development and change work correctly and necessary in the light of local needs and assumptions, within the framework of the size of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1044	The Council of State today answers that one with a national hospital plan will not decide that the Storting should define the tasks for each hospital. In the election campaign, Erna Solberg, who is now the prime minister of the country, said to the Official Journal of Bergen on 2 September precisely these words that Right wanted a national hospital plan to define the tasks of each individual hospital, also locally, in the new hospital plan. My question is, when one before the election is so clear on what citizens can expect from a hospital plan, and afterwards is equally inexhaustible on the same thing, how does the council believe that the trust and trust of those who govern the health care system, i.e. the government, can be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1051	The representative Toppe has been involved in the debate on health policy for many years, not least with me. We have agreed that there is a need to develop a national health and hospital plan. That work is now in progress. I am also quite convinced that the representative Toppe in the countless debates we have had on this topic has come to realize that I have never stated that the Stortinget should serve as a board for all the hospitals of the country, where all departments and issues relating to the establishment and closure of each department are to be dealt with in the Stortinget. That would be contrary to the governance model that the Right wanted, which has already been expressed. The most common reference given in a description of the functioning of a national health and hospital plan, in these debates in which Kjersti Toppe has also participated, is the reference to the National Health and Hospital Plan on maternity care. The representative of Toppe knows that very well. That the Center Party wants to make the Stortinget a plenary board for all hospitals in Norway, in which case it may be the central party's policy, but it has never been the Right Policy or Government Policy, either before or after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1058	I do nothing but refer exactly to what Right said before the option, and refer exactly to which government council answers the Size after the option. I can hardly understand it when a pre-election compares the morbidity plan with the NTP, and after the selection comes to a hospital plan that should be a status report and describe challenges and they override things. There is an incorrect representation of the selection selector. But enough about that, what's the point independent of a hospital plan, is that we have a health insurance law. My question relates to § 30, which says that significant changes should not be decided: Does the Council of State believe that changing food and emergency supply is not a significant change?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1065	The representative Toppe now makes a conscious selection of individual quotations, without seeing them in the context in which they are put in. Of course, the national health and hospital plan shall provide an overview of the status, but the national health and hospital plan shall not be a status plan; it shall also be a plan for the development of health care in the years to come. However, it also makes sense that a plan for the future development of healthcare contains a section that describes the current situation. This is normal in the context of other plans, for example: National transport plan, which contains a description of the current situation, but also a description of how things should develop further. The plan will also provide guidance on the nature of the food supply, how the emergency services will develop in the years to come, and will also contain different descriptions of what the different types of services should be provided by hospitals and local medical centres. But there's a difference between that and saying that the Storting should decide the content of the individual, concrete hospital and... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1076	‘In a letter to the Association of Pensioners on 26 March, the Council of State announces that it will ‘put up a broader representation’ in discussion meetings on matters of significance for pensioners. So far, SAKO cooperation has represented the pension lists in discussions with the government. The SAKO Agreement is open to all country-based pensioners’ associations to participate in the cooperation. Why does the Council want to change the representation of the meeting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1083	As the representative was involved, SAKO cooperation means that the Pensioners' Association represents the pensioners' organisations. We have annual deliberations on both government budgets and other matters relevant to pensioners. I can mention the social security settlement, the regulation of the basic amount, as one of the issues on which you have a cooperation. I register, and have registered over several years, that not all nationwide organisations want to be part of SAKO cooperation. When I have received feedback from several organisations that you want to participate, I think it is important to attend. I see it as very unproblematic that more organisations are being set aside to make their views known in the forums set up to provide those views, so that several of the pensioners' interests are taken care of, heard and brought to the Council of State. I think it's a force. It is to facilitate more open democracy; it is to facilitate that more people have the opportunity to make their views known. That's a position I stood for in opposition. That is why I am pleased that I can also implement it in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1092	I thank you for your answer. Hausten 2013 amended the SAKO cooperation agreement so that all nation-wide pensioners’ organisations can now participate in the cooperation. They did so to strengthen the work of the elderly in society and at the same time strengthen the agreements made with the government. This was made known to the Council of State by the Pensioners Association in the fall. When all national pensioners' organisations have the opportunity to register in SAKO, and today's agreements allow all pensioners' groups to participate directly or indirectly in these discussions, is it because of a mistrust of the Pensioners' Association or SAKO cooperation that the Council of State makes these changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1101	No, it's not of disbelief to the Pensionist League. Through the SAKO cooperation, the Pensioners Association is currently representing the following organisations in the case of pensioners: the Federation of Telepensionists, the Association of Railway Pensioners, the Association of Police Retirementists, the Association of State Retirement Workers, the Association of Posters Pensioners, the Committee of Trade Union Retirement Workers and the Committee of LO State Pensioners. They're represented by the Pensioners' Association. Then there are other organisations who tell me that they also know that they can join the SAKO cooperation and be cared for, but that it is the Pensioners' Association that must be the messenger in their role in the discussion meetings. They want to be an independent actor and be the messenger of what they are occupied with, to their pensioners. I take that seriously, and I can't in my wildest imagination turn it over there that there should be some distrust of the Pensioners' Association to get to more, so that more players will have the opportunity to come up with their views to properly care for their pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1112	By dropping to more than one organisation outside SAKO, it will open up the possibility of depriving the cooperation and the organisations belonging to SAKO will start to ask for the right to debate themselves. It could quickly lead to an unmanageable number of organisations when discussions take place, and the collective influence of organisations may be reduced. My question is: why my government council is it better for the government to handle many covenants than to have an association to stick to?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1119	We're not talking about many small associations, we're talking about nationwide organizations, just so it's clear. So it's like we, as the representative says, have notified this in a letter on 26 March, and that during the fall we will sit down and design how the discussions will take place from next year. Then I think the representative can feel confident that both I and those who are already in the discussion want to have both tidy and good discussions and discussion meetings, and we will facilitate that we get a good, predictable and secure framework for it. The whole intention is not a distrust of anyone, but simply to let more people go, so that several of the pensioners' views are brought before me as the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1132	‘Failing efforts to combat poor working conditions in the transport sector poses a threat both to road safety and to the serious companies in the industry. To stop social dumping in the transport sector, it is necessary to identify which enterprises exploit their employees and those purchasing services from the non-profit operators must be given legal, economic and insurance co-responsibility. Will the State Council take the initiative to introduce regional protection agencies in the transport sector and co-responsibility for transport buyers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1139	I agree with the representative of Trettebergstuen that it is important to take the unprofessional actors in Norwegian working life. It is also clear from the government platform that we want to screw the cork and the screw tighten for the unprofessional, targeted work against those who are unprofessional and cheer up the serious ones. It shall pay to be serious in Norwegian working life. Then I'd be allowed to say that it's essentially that we have a serious, decent working life in Norway. It was also revealed by the last big message that the previous government presented. But then we also want to increase efforts towards certain industries. The transport industry is one of the industries we're working with right now. There we have now agreed with the social partners that an industry approach is a sensible way to set up work. It is also followed up by the Labour Inspectorate – in their 2013–2016 plan they have the industrial approach. We have also agreed with the social partners that we need to find out exactly what the situation is. What can and must be done to take the unprofessional? There are two areas in the transport sector we are looking at in particular, where we see that this is a major challenge. This is the case in the truck industry, i.e. the freight transport industry, and it is the tourism industry, and it is a job that we are going to finish during this year. I believe that it is not a failure to work when we have agreed with the social partners in a race. As the agreement has been reached, it makes a check-out and, not least, collects the knowledge to be acquired in order to make the right decisions. Once it has been done, what the representative raises as a question, whether or not to introduce a regional protection ombudsman, will be one of the issues that will then be assessed. Then, after that work is done, the government will come back with its assessment, its recommendation, and its conclusion on that very question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1148	Governments are right that the main picture is that Norwegian working life is very good. But the problem of social dumping and crime at work is spreading, and most people agree that it needs to be taken seriously. When the previous government presented Action Plan 3 together with the revised State budget one year ago, we added to this sector programme for the transport sector to which the Council refers. We also said that we were going to come up with more concrete measures to bring about the development we see in the transport sector. Those measures have been put on the table. We don't need any more investigations about what it looks like, we need action. Is it the case that the Council of State agrees with the industry and the Workers' Party that the introduction of regional protection agencies and co-responsibility for the buyer is a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1157	As for the different measures, I will wait to comment on them until we have acquired the knowledge that is. We are following the progress that the previous government has also taken into account for the industry programme – the agreement and what we have agreed with the parties on. Then I am concerned that we should also make quick and correct decisions and take action against the unprofessional. That is why we called the social partners to a meeting of the Employment and Pension Policy Council on 10 June. I would have liked that meeting to be held earlier. Unfortunately, the earlier dates I have outlined for such a meeting have not been implemented for all the parties, precisely because we are in the middle of a salary settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1164	The ten measures dealt with by the Storting two weeks ago against social dumping in the transport sector were a plan developed by us when we were in government, together with the industry. There are measures that are needed. We can't afford to wait for more investigations. Social dumping and crime at work have unfortunately good growth conditions, because we see a situation of increasing unemployment around Europe. It is therefore urgent to be forward-looking and take new measures to address this problem. We from the Labour Party have proposed measures earlier, we will continue to do so. However, it is not just that the transport sector is affected, but also large parts of the rest of the Norwegian working life are affected. What is the plan of the Council of State to come to the United Kingdom with more and more broad measures against social dumping and crime at work in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1175	Let me say it so that I'm not so concerned about having big plans, I've said that from this pulpit before. I am also not concerned that it is the number of plans that are the most important for the results. What is most important is the measures taken to take the unprofessional. There are measures that need to be developed continuously in relation to how we see the problem emerging. I take the signals from Økokrim in the deepest seriousness. This will come to Stortinget through different things. In the sector we are talking about here, there are among the ten measures two that are under my department. Some are under the Ministry of Justice, and I know that the Ministry of Justice is working with them. We are following up – we are in the process – the Labour Inspectorate, who has had this as one of the areas of activity. In addition, the Ministry of Transport is working on the cabotage problem. Proposals were sent out at the hearing on 21 April. That's where we're waiting for feedback, and it's being followed up by that department. So it comes from different teams different things to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1190	‘A safe Norway requires us to maintain a Norwegian salary level for all. The level of pay of the press for someone down will soon have consequences for other people and the economic security of the nation. Households have problems paying mortgages, and living safe and normal lives. Ensuring each and every salary to live off is not just crucial for the employee and her family, it's a question for the whole community. How will the Council of State ensure that Norway maintains the wages of port workers and the ILO Convention 137?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1197	The ILO Convention 137 on port work was adopted in 1973. The main objective of the ILO Convention — its articles — is to ensure regular employment and income for port workers. That is what the Convention applies to. The Convention shall implement its national laws, regulations and administrative provisions to the extent that they are not made in collective agreements or otherwise. In Norway, the obligations of the Convention have been taken into account and taken into account through the framework agreement between the LO, Transport Workers’ Association, and the NHO, Logistics and Transport. Securing minimum wages and salaries is also ensured through cooperation between the parties and collective agreements, as in other sectors in terms of wage levels. I think it's wise, right and reasonable that we as authorities don't interfere in the collective agreement. This is determined in cooperation with the parties – the parties handle it. I am very well aware that there are many conflicts at the same time between the port workers and in the port industry. But none of those conflicts, I have registered, are about what the representative Serigstad Valen addresses in his question, about salary levels. I would also like to stress that this weekend the parties agreed on a new agreement on how to organise port workers for two new years. So I relate to the agreement that has been made, and then I am concerned that the freedom of organisation should be well respected. It is already well maintained through Norwegian law, and it is important that we practice Norwegian law in a good and correct way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1206	I want to thank you for the answer, but I want to say that there is an obvious link between the right to regular work and the pay level, because the option of the right to the right of the port workers is what I would call a layman's society. Obviously, it will lead to lower employment and lower wages. The agreement that has now been reached, to which the minister refers, does not include the conflict at Risavika, and sympathy strikes have been taken out in the Baltic Sea and in Tromsø. The workers who strike there, I don't think the answer given by the Minister of Labour is safe. The primary right was that the employer side would not sign a collective agreement in Risavika, and that is a right that the port workers have. If it is the case that the port workers do not get a collective agreement with priority, do I correctly interpret the Minister for Labour that he will then ensure that we regulate it by law, or that we otherwise ensure that we discharge the obligations we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1215	The conflict in the port of Risavika is a conflict on which the representative points out whether to conclude collective agreements. There is a question for the parties. I think it would be very unfair if a government council, the authorities, would go in and dictate the parties in terms of how they should deal with what has been added to the parties to deal with. It's something that the parties have to clean up, it's with the parties. In this respect, we have said that both labour law and the Riksmökler are at the disposal of the parties. The sympathy strike in Tromsø and Mosjøen harbour is followed by me and the department to assess whether it threatens life and health, just as all other strikes. Besides that, the state has no other role, based on the way we've organized this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1222	I understand that the Minister of Labour will not comment on the details of an ongoing conflict, and that is clear. But this conflict is special, for it relates to a point on which Norway is internationally obliged, and it is the right of priority to unloading and cargo work for port workers. I would like to ask again: will the Minister of Labour ensure this right of preference in other ways if this conflict does not result in preferential treatment by means of a collective agreement? – because, of course, Norway still has an obligation to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1234	The principal questions raised by the representative were the observance of the ILO Convention. We are fulfilling our obligations under the ILO Convention in this area. Then I register that this weekend there has been an agreement between the parties on a new two-year agreement. I'm dealing with that. If it turns out in the future that you come to a new disagreement, you'll see how to deal with it when that time comes. Starting to advance it and intervene in the other conflicts, I think I'm becoming inexorable. It is not according to the rules of the game on which Norwegian working life is based, and I do not intend to change those rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1245	This question, from the representative Jenny Klinge, will be raised by the representative Geir Inge Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1248	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘More recently this year, the Council of State made it clear that the new criminal law will be implemented by the summer of 2015. According to the Council of State, the ICT system of the police shall be upgraded before that time. The process has previously been shown to be time-consuming. Does the Council of State stick to this objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1257	Let me first thank the representative for the question of a very important matter. As this government took over the government, it was expected that the new penal code could perhaps be implemented in 2018, most likely early in 2019. We have taken some steps to speed this up for several years. I probably haven't said that it will come into force in the summer; during the summer it's probably what I've used. It's still a very clear goal. But this is a complicated and comprehensive process that involves a lot of people. In addition to carrying out legal work, a large amount of ICT work is to be done and training is to be done. This will affect many thousands of staff working days when it is implemented. We have some experience of challenges that can be created along the way by ICT projects, so one must always take on a certain reservation, but the goal is clear that during the summer – not before summer, but during the summer – we will get this in place. There's a risk, as I mention, that it may take a little longer, but we're working hard both in the department and not least in the Police Directorate to get this in place within the framework we've set.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1264	I thank the Minister for the answer. It is positive that the Minister shows the willingness to speed up work on the implementation of new criminal law. It is important that the will and decision of the legislator be implemented in society. The 2005 Criminal Code addresses many very key legislative changes. But then, as the Minister of Justice pointed out, it is important that the technical system should follow. The police computer system has been specified as a plug in the system. What directives has the Minister given to the Police Directorate on the time perspective for improving the computer system? Has the Minister received any indication that the police computer will not deal with this conversion in the summer of 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1269	The ICT programme of the police is quite comprehensive. It is primarily about the Value Added Value Programme, and the reason why the new penal code could not come into force is that the Value Added Programme has been suspended and suspended and suspended. This last round we had after the government change, after an external consultant said that the police directorate was not robust enough to implement the Value Added Programme, which will lead to further delays. I believe it is a democratic problem that decisions in Stortinget are not followed up properly. The first part of the penal code was adopted in 2005 and the previous government was unable to deliver anything until 2018/2019. We've transformed the entire ICT programme. It's a complicated affair, there's a risk associated with it, and we're in close dialogue with the Police Directorate on the ongoing follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1276	All the factors we've now been dealing with are technology and the use of money. The Police Directorate has launched many programmes to meet the challenges of the future. These programmes also have a cost framework that the establishment relies on to stay within in order to prevent other primary activities from being affected. Will the Minister provide the police with fresh funds earmarked for the necessary ICT upgrades?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1281	There I have to answer what all the Councils answer to all the budgetary questions, that it is a budgetary matter that we come back to in the current budgetary processes. At the same time, I am obliged to point out that it has not been entirely without controversy, or a simple task, to have a decision on the implementation of the penal code and to speed it up for many years. There are many who have adapted a very low expectation to the previous government. The fact that the new government is now making concrete demands and is very concerned that we are going to deliver quickly on something that should have been delivered a long time ago creates, of course, challenges in an organisation that needs to change its plans. It's demanding, but we have a lot of good people both in the department and in the police department who work hard to get this done, and I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to make it right in the summer. But there are some risk factors there, and of course we take into account the budgetary challenges that come through the current budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1291	I have a question: ‘In April’s newspaper headlines on the Friend of the Fatherland it was announced that several police officers were members of a Freemason’s Home. Head of the Police Union, Sigve Bolstad, went out and took a clear distance from this, and said this should not happen. Police employees were also very critical of such membership. It turned out that management was not aware of this. Does the Council of State think it is right that police officers are members of such brotherhood?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1298	There is no general law on the right of State employees to hold side jobs or to be a member of associations, but there are special provisions for individual groups of government employees. In the case of police officers and officers, they may not hold any other paid position, pursue private acquisitions or hold a public authorisation for activities, unless the chief of police or the chief of police agrees to do so, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 22 of the Police Act. Consent shall not be given if there is any doubt as to the nature of the police officer or his independence in civil matters, or whether the ancillary activity may reduce the police officer’s ability or ability to perform the duties properly. Participation in voluntary work and association activities has been considered as non-conflicting recreational services. The adoption of the rules of the Law of the Court of Justice on the registration of side-to-side activities considered whether a ban should be imposed on judges against being members of fraternal associations, such as: The Norwegian Freemasonry Order. The Court of Justice did not consider it appropriate to impose such a prohibition, because it would involve an unacceptable interference in the freedom of the individual judge, according to NOW 1999: 19. The ministry agreed on this then, and expressed it in Ot.prp. No 44 for 2000–2001 and there were no specific comments on this from the Innst Judicial Committee. O. No 103 for 2000-2001. I believe it is reasonable to use the same basis for the membership of police officers in such fraternities. Absence of participation in associations, etc. does not, however, mean that police officers are able to handle without delay matters relating to persons who are close to them or in whom they themselves may have interests, under the provisions of the Administrative Act and the Criminal Procedures Act §§60-61, in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1307	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. In the case of Kristiansand, there were ten police officers with varying hours in the police district who were members of a freemasonry lodge in Kristiansand. The chief of police said to the media that she didn't know about this. Stability must, of course, ensure trust in governmental bodies and, as far as I understand the rules, instability must be notified and assessed. Here, ten officials – some with long seagoing times – are unlikely to be able to assess their stability in terms of membership of the Freemasonry Order. It is not certain they have had any issues associated with it, but some of them have been employed for quite a long time. How will the Minister assess this in view of the subjective instability, i.e. the public perception of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1314	I'm very concerned that we're going to have a police force that has very strong confidence in the population. The police do. The last confidence polls show that we have a police force with a robust and good trust among the people most. We're going to stimulate that. I find it difficult to go into the discussion about whether someone has reported or failed to report their own incapacity, and I am not convinced that as a member of a brotherhood you are automatically incapacitated. It is the responsibility of each member of staff to ensure that he/she is up-to-date and to report on any stability challenges. I assume that our officials and women are so conscious of these circumstances that they make those assessments thoroughly. In case of doubt, this should be presented to the superior, and I am convinced that it will be done to the extent required.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1321	Thank you for that. I'm also going to take that into account. Nevertheless, it is important to ask some questions. IN NOW 2009: 12 A responsible police officer is just discussing trust and stability. This refers to a 1996 Supreme Court judgment which states that ‘for reasons of trust in the courts, it should be avoided that there is any doubt as to whether or not stability is involved’. The selection in the NOU goes on to say: ‘It does not help the confidence of society that the Special Unit is in fact not affected by relationships if the community considers this differently. The selection assumes that the Special Device is assessed on the basis of the audience’s subjective perception of viability.’» Does the Minister agree with this assessment of the subjective perception of viability? Does the Minister think that this should apply to the police as well, and does he, on that basis, want to go into and look at the legislation relating to members of brotherhood or order? There may be many types of brotherhood that have established themselves, not just freemasonry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1331	If I now got the question right, it was referred to a Supreme Court judgment. It would be very unwise for a state council to say that he disagrees with the Supreme Court, so of course I base the legal judgements that the Supreme Court also makes on the question of stability. But I'm concerned that sustainability issues are going to apply in general, and that it's hard to take into account any kind of special sustainability rules for membership of brotherhood or particular organisations. I generally agree that the rules on sustainability may need a revitalisation, not primarily for the sake of these kinds of issues, but because much has happened in the development of society since the adoption of the Administrative Act. What I think there is reason to consider is whether to look at the administrative law in general with new eyes. But I don't want to take any specific initiative to impose legal or instructional restrictions on the ability of police officers to participate in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1360	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1367	«More independent have now measured the forest path over gnr. 31 bn 2,9 and 10 in Gratangen municipality and found that it was misprinted on the map. If this vote is taken, the decision taken by the County Agriculture Board shall be based: [[2007]] Does the Council of State consider that the forest road is correctly marked on the map?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1374	I am not aware of the information provided by the staging representative about incorrect mapping of the forest road in Gratangen. I therefore have no reason to answer the specific question asked. However, I would like to point out that all the administrative departments involved in this matter have carried out an inspection of the forest path on the ground. Field inspections, together with other information on the road action, have also been used by the County Agriculture Board in Troms’ final decision of 17 November 2008. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, by letter of 12 December 2012 to the Parties and after roadside inspection, has found no reason to reverse the final decision of the County Agriculture Council of 17 November 2008. I have also informed Stortinget earlier in response to written question No. 446 by Mr Tove Karoline Knutsen on this route. In my reply of March 3, 2014, I pointed out that the administrative side of the case was finally closed by the department in 2012, and that it was therefore not relevant for me to re-approve of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1383	This is a matter that has been going on for a long time. These days we have been dealing with the Constitution, and the fact that someone is taking care of the property of another person is something we have constitutional protection against. Complaints have been sent – the starting point here is that it is a decision that is taken without an application, without an opinion from the outset. In the first instance, the Boards of Appeal have not sought to deal with the matter, and when they have been pressured, they have dealt with the matter without conducting sufficient observations. They've only seen isolated parts of this road. This has led to a very frustration, simply. There is reason to believe that the facts that describe the case are not correct, and the Council of State has the possibility under Section 35 of the Administration Act to reverse the decision if it is invalid. Will the Council of State go into the matter with a new eye?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1388	This case has been dealt with by the County Agriculture Board of Troms, it has been dealt with by the County of Troms, it has been dealt with by the State Agriculture Administration, and it has been dealt with by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food during the previous government. There's been a lot of resources, and there's been a lot of inspections to look at this way. My starting point now is that this matter must find its possible solution in the legal system, because we have now had that matter at the end of the administrative apparatus. So this has to be solved through private law in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1393	But if it is true that the map that has been drawn and the decisions that have been taken are not consistent with the reality, that the road is coherent, he is longer, and the intersection is higher than what has been the basis for all the decisions here, then it is actually a rather major crime of action against those who own the property. The reason why this case comes up again and again, is that we're after all a lot here in this room that's seen the case, and sees the unfair thing about it, that this has really happened to one person, and that someone has really taken care of someone else's property. I think it should also be in the minister's interest to look after those who don't have the big resources, but who have elected bodies like this. If I can provide information that shows that the road is actually not as described in the decisions, will the Minister consider the matter again?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1398	This is a long-standing conflict, which has been going on for many years, and I have noticed that many in this room are concerned about the matter. But now it's like this case has been dealt with in a lot of instances – everyone who's going to enter it in the administration. I therefore believe that it is natural that one should go further in this matter, take it into the ordinary legal system and come to a possible conclusion there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1414	This question is also postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1422	Before Stortinget goes to voting on case no. 3, the Storting must be officially overruled by the cases on which it is to be sued under case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Councillor Sylvi Listhaug will transfer 6 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-14.ana.ud1408e1512	Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? It is not, and the meeting has been cancelled.
