ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e82	The representatives of Marianne Aasen, Per Rune Henriksen, Ove Trellevik and Liv Signe Navarsete, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For the West-Agder counties: Torhild Bransdal For Buskerud County: Laila Gustavsen and Christopher Wand For Hordaland County: Laila Marie Reiertsen For Uppland State: Kjersti Stone Bed For the Province of Rogaland: Kari Raustein For Troms County: Siv Elin Hansen For the South-Trundellag County: Torhild Aarbergsbotten and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg For Eastfold County: Tone Damsleth and Wenche Olsen Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative of Morten Wold from 8 April until 10 April to take part in the 2014 session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, Part Two, of Strasbourg by the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Eirin Sund from 8 April until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For the county of Rogaland: Øystein Hansen
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e181	Tone Heimdal Brataas and Øystein Hansen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e187	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sylvi Graham. – Other proposals are not available, and Sylvi Graham is unanimously elected as the chairperson of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e208	When the EOS Committee makes a separate notification to the EEAS on the functioning of the intelligence service, the first question is: Why? Why do the secret services set themselves up to be checked on demand, why do they have doubts about their handling of information, why do they have concerns, and why do the investigations show that there may have been concerns? And the promise to correct wrong after the check, I will also meet with: ‘Why’ – followed by – ‘Not yet?’ A Joint Committee considers that it is in itself regrettable that the EOS Committee received a statement of concern about the processing of information on Norwegian sources by the Intelligence Service. The Committee has also been brought together for the remainder of the opinion. The main message in it is that the Ministry of Defence must take special responsibility for clarifying the writing, basis of law and the possibility of independent democratic control of the use of sources by secret services and the storage of information about them. The fact that these are matters in which the Storting must ask for it to be corrected is quite strange, and an overall committee, which sends this message, underlines the importance of it. The fact that the secret services are under operational democratic control is the premise for their functioning, and we shall also come back to that in the subsequent debate. It is essential for confidence in the secret services in Norway that existing laws and guidelines on the provision and storage of information are followed. The anxiety message led to the EOS Committee having to carry out a check on the E Services Human-Based Collection Department. Fortunately, the EOS Committee did not find any breach of either the E-Law, the E-Instruction or the Personal Information Act. The fact that Section 4 of the E-Law was not found to be breached, i.e. the prohibition to monitor Norwegian people on Norwegian soil, is particularly – well, I would not say ‘happy’, I wish I could say ‘self-evidently’, since the option would be serious and very serious. The nature of the secret services is such that ‘unfortunately’ should not be the subject of a reference to them. The verification was carried out to verify whether the processing of personal data by the department and the basis for processing such data were in accordance with the applicable legislation. The Committee welcomes the fact that the EOS Committee did not find that the service has systematically processed information on Norwegian sources and/or other Norwegian persons contrary to the applicable legislation. Sometimes sensitive information about the related source, provided by the source itself, may be relevant to the source. The management of such information must be carried out with great care, in writing and subject to clear procedures. The Committee notes that the EOS Committee points out that, as the EOS Committee writes, the legal basis here is ‘debt’. The word 'willful' should never appear in the mention of the functions of secret services. It's in itself very regrettable. Not because the sample should have formulated it differently, but because it should be completely unnecessary to do it. The Committee expects a thorough assessment of the basis of its decision. The collection and processing of data on potential sources is an activity which should also be subject to clear rules. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry of Defence to review and assess the need for an update of the legal basis and relevant rules. Something tells me that there is such a need. The discrepancy between the EOS Committee and the E-service on the basis of which sensitive personal data are processed and on the requirement of relevance and necessity only underlines the importance of giving particular priority to this work. The EOS Committee writes that they have not found that the service has systematically processed unnecessary information. It's tempting to say, "It's just supposed to be missing!" However, it is not as obvious as one likes to believe, all the time the EOS Committee writes in its special notice to the Storting that there are difficulties in verifying whether stored data on sources are relevant and necessary. The EOS Committee believes that the service should refrain from processing some information about some sources and their relatives. On this basis, the Committee calls on the Ministry of Defence to ensure that the E service draws up internal legislation for the use of sources as a collection method, setting out criteria for the relevance and necessity of the information. The service has notified that written policies related to the practical handling of source information will be put in place. That these have not been found before is very serious. It's on the limit of incredible. The service further specifies to the sample that it is to be considered to allocate larger resources to ongoing internal control measures to ensure that information is not stored longer than is necessary. That assessment should end with that. The Committee asks the Ministry of Defence to ensure that it is implemented. There is an overall committee which notes that the department’s source archives and computer systems have not been adequately equipped for independent control. That should be the whole basis for their existence. On this very occasion, the EOS department assisted in making control possible by facilitating it. It's not always given, and it's not always natural. No EOS selection found this time. What happens when you find something? Will the will to facilitate control be as present as now? This does not allow us to have confidence in the E-service. Therefore, we expect the digital and physical archives to be set up so that future controls can be carried out without the assistance of those to be monitored themselves. The basis for our trust in the services is that it is possible to control them without allowing those who are being controlled to do so. Writtenness, specific guidelines, clear grounds for reference, organisation of control and predictability are essential for the intelligence service itself to be able to carry out its mission and for the possibility for the EOS Committee to control its activities. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry of Defence to give priority to the preparation of these matters. I want to add that I wanted the secret services to work a little more for the trust they are given.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e242	The intelligence service is entirely dependent on society’s confidence that they carry out their activities in line with applicable laws and regulations and without abuse of their capabilities. I would also like to stress in this Chamber that the Norwegian intelligence service is among the most open in the world. I think that's a good nobility mark, because we're earned that it's openness, as far as possible. At the same time, it is evident that an effective intelligence service is not compatible with full transparency on absolutely all aspects of intelligence activities. It is therefore essential that we have independent and reliable control through the EOS Committee, which is responsible for democratic control on behalf of the Stortinge. It is also important that the outcome of the checks carried out by the sample on the secret services be made available to the public in such communications, so that society obtains the insight they need and require. I am a little surprised by the rapporteur's introduction that it is regrettable that there are concerns messages that provide a basis for verification. On the contrary, I think it is good that unannounced checks are carried out based on outside tips and not just as part of a planned and pre-approved business. In my opinion, it helps to strengthen confidence in our secret services and also contributes to a high level of awareness about compliance with legislation within the services. Of course, I am satisfied with and had also expected that the unannounced control of the sample and the subsequent checks on the service's source archives last autumn concluded that the service has not operated any illegal surveillance or has systematically broken the applicable legislation for the processing of personal data. The selection points to some single events, but not a systematic. At the same time, the sample has identified some aspects related to the preparation of the legislation for the processing of personal data by the use of human-based sources, known as HUMINT. Most of these conditions have already been followed up by the service, both in the form of the development of internal legislation and in the practical organisation of archives and systems. Firstly, the service has developed written internal provisions regulating the use of Norwegian sources as a procurement method. I would like to stress that there have also been procedures in the past, but these are now further prepared and written. So you haven't had any procedures before – on the contrary. Criteria have also been developed for the registration of relevant and necessary personal data, the storage and deletion of information and internal control. Those provisions entered into force in December of last year. These provisions reflect the requirements set by the Data Protection Act for the processing of personal data, relating to both general principles such as necessity, proportionality and relevance and specific criteria, inter alia. intelligence purposes. These provisions will contribute to enhanced internal control in the service of the information recorded and will make even more visible the management responsibility for the operation of the service. I would also like to stress that the EOS Committee will have full access to the control of personal data recorded and retained by the services and will be able to control processed information against the internal provisions and other legal legislation. Secondly, the service selected in connection with the organisation of the checks on the source archives of the service to start work on reorganising all of its archives and systems. The EOS Committee and the service have had a dialogue over a period of time on the organisation of the practical implementation of the checks carried out by the sample. The result of this is that the sample has received what they wanted, namely an opportunity to carry out research in computer systems and archives, similar to the rest of the secret services. This new archive and its creation took place on 1 April. This extensive reorganisation is an innovation, and I look forward to hearing the experience of the sample checks in the future. It is right to focus increasingly on privacy, both in the service and in society. I would therefore like to inform you that the Intelligence Service is also in a process of strengthening its own competence in this field, among other things. by adding a separate privacy adviser. In addition to these measures that I have already described as implemented, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has in its position also asked the Ministry of Defence to review and assess the basis of the law and relevant legislation relating to one specific category of personal data for one specific personnel group. It is important that the service has a clear framework for its activities and that there is no doubt that the legal basis is clear. I shall, of course, ensure that this is followed up in line with the Committee's request.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e294	Operational democratic control of the secret services is a prerequisite for their functioning. We have that in Norway, and it gives us a common security and confidence that the services we have set up do what they have to do, namely protect us. As much as our common security depends on a intelligence that works according to its intent to protect its citizens and institutions, it is important for our security and intelligence mandate that we have confidence in it and that we are given reason to trust it. It is an overall committee which agrees with the proposers that it is essential to ensure that all monitoring is carried out legally and that it is subject to democratic control. It is important for people's trust and security, and it is important for the secret services themselves. Here's the EOS Committee implementing the control. They shall keep under constant control the intelligence, surveillance and security services provided by public authorities, or under the direction or mandate of public authorities. Law on Preventive Security Services, Act on Intelligence and Security Service Instructions in Defence all refer to the EOS Act and state that the Services are under the control of the EOS Committee. The central task of the committee is to verify that the EOS services do not commit any injustice against the individual. Then it is our responsibility to enable them to do so. Societies are constantly changing, and institutions must be the same. Technology development is an unparalleled good, but it also brings with it opportunities for misusing technology to challenge trust between individuals, between institutions and between countries. Technology has also brought us closer together. People and countries have never had such good opportunities to be close to each other and to meet in cooperation. Cooperation is a good thing, but that kind of cooperation requires more of us. Cooperation does not always have to be positive. Terrorists also work hard, and they know no borders beyond the borders they are willing to defend by any means. All social services are working across borders today. It also applies to the secret services. That's good, and it's necessary. But as I said, it requires more. Some long-term national, international and technical developments relevant to the secret services were highlighted in the previous annual report of the EOS Committee. Several of the developments and challenges are clear, and concerns are shared by the proposers and the Committee. This applies, inter alia, to: the boundaries and coherence between civil and military threats, the strong cooperation between the PST and the E service, the increasing exchange of information between the services of Norwegian and other countries and the rapid development of technology. This is a cooperation which the Committee considers to be important for further development, but underlines to the EOS Committee that this will also lead to the need for more and possibly different control activities by the EOS Committee. If the Storting adopts new patterns of cooperation or new ways of working for the EOS Committee, it is important that we also ensure democratic control of services. It is to ensure confidence in the EOS services and to provide a good basis for their work. The Committee considers the model chosen for the control of secret services, with direct reporting from an independent control body to the Stortinget, to be good. But the question is whether they are given the opportunity to be good enough, if the EOS committee can see far enough. The members of the previous Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, all other than the members of the Progress Party, sent a letter to the Presidency on 3 June 2013. The Presidency was asked to take a closer look at the need to adjust the functioning of the control of secret services. The letter specifically asked the Presidency to look at issues relating to transparency, the downgrading of documents, the defence's own intelligence service and its ability to control it, and the relationship of secret services with civil informants. The Committee is aware that the way the presidency works on these issues is to set up a separate selection to evaluate the work of the EOS Committee and the framework within which it works. It looks forward to seeing the outcome. We believe it is positive that such a sample is created. We think it's so positive that we want to give the sample more problems. In this case, it is not the most important thing who it is that gives the answer, but that the answers come, and that it does not take that long before they arrive. The majority of the Committee, all other than the member of the Socialist Left Party, therefore considers that there is no need to set up a separate Commission to clarify these issues, as proposed in the draft representative. In the view of the majority, the perspectives presented in the draft representative, together with the questions addressed to the presidency, can be answered there. The important thing is not to describe the problem, but to solve it. If, on the other hand, these questions cannot be answered by the presidency or their selection, the Storting should discuss this again. The majority of the Committee – the Working Party, the Green, SV and the Centre – asks the government to assess the need for its own selection and, if so, what form it should take. The Committee asks that the presidency-appointed selection to evaluate the EOS Committee be given the task of discussing the following new issues: Review of the mandate and tools of the EOS Committee structure for cooperation between the EOS Committee and the secret services Norway's ability to control the privacy management of secret services and the data and information security of the business community in order to ensure the democratic control of Norwegian citizens by Norwegian foreign countries Maybe the last point is the most central point. International intelligence needs international control. If Norway has limited control, there is reason to believe that we are not alone in this. This is then a common international problem that Norway should take the initiative to resolve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e328	In the previous Control and Constitutional Committee, all parties, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, argued that the Presidency should be asked to consider the need to adjust the functioning of the control of the secret services. This is an important and demanding question. Secret services are a necessary tool in a real, brutal world, and it is not least important that there is democratic control over it. The EOS Committee is the instrument, and what is essential is that the EOS Committee has legal frameworks and a practice that is such that there is no deficit in terms of what can develop from unculture that can put the secret services into discredit. What is in this setting is essentially unanimous, but I want to make some comments about it. The opinion states that the EOS Committee in the Annual Report points to a trend towards closer cooperation between the secret services, in particular the PST and the E service, and that the Committee agrees that it is right to develop it further, while such further development implies the need for the EOS Committee to have the necessary instruments. I would like to stress that if one makes such a change, the Storting must adopt the new cooperation patterns and provide them with the basis, so that it is clear that this is something that the Storting understands. Today there shall be a clear and clear division of responsibilities between the PST and the E services, and for the Centre Party it shall be central. Just as we are to have a clear division of responsibilities between the military forces and the police in Norway, it is important that we have a clear division of responsibilities between the domestic PST and the E-service, which are abroad. It's extremely important to have a show. What is also stated in the option, given unanimously, is that the selection that is now assigned to discuss further matters shall look at: ‘How to ensure Norwegian democratic control of the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by foreign countries’. I'll stay with you. It's incredibly important. Unfortunately, we have seen examples that have caused deep concern about this. We have to get rid of the unculture that the Snowden case has shown that we have in that area – yes, it's something far more than that. What we're experiencing is that our NATO allies are acting so that you can really question what's going on. I can't strongly stress that the sample that's going to look at it has to be especially vigilant right at that point. If not that point is clear – that we not only have control of our own e-services or PST, but also that democratic Norway has an overview of what our NATO allies are doing in Norway – then we are out there driving hard. Here there must be no doubt, as it has been lately. I would strongly encourage the sample to take this very seriously, so that you get a different behavior at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e342	At the time, the Lund Commission presented its findings on comprehensive monitoring of Norwegian citizens, it changed Norway. It changed the political debate. It changed a lot of our self-image. It also provided the basis for much better control of the secret services, which had for a long time been the driving force of illegal surveillance by Norwegian citizens. Nevertheless, we have to realize today that the Lund Commission report was a report on a different world and society than what we live in today. The monitoring challenges we are facing today are completely different from those set by the Lund Commission to describe. It's a dramatic new image that creates a lot of anxiety among many people. We do not know to what extent others have an insight into our lives through the opportunities offered by new technologies to keep track of our movements, how we spend our money, what we think about different issues – what opportunities private individuals, business and foreign countries have to gain transparency in the privacy of Norwegian citizens, to decisions taken by Norwegian authorities and to secrets in Norwegian business. The service Edward Snowden has done to the world, I think, is to open our eyes to this picture -- to create a new and more realistic debate on the monitoring challenges of our time. Regardless of what in the individual information that has emerged in connection with these disclosures that are true or not, it has nevertheless contributed to our being, I believe, more realistic towards the new monitoring debate. It is with this in mind that the SV has made proposals for a new monitoring commission, simply because the monitoring challenges posed by the Lund Commission are probably no longer the most important challenges for privacy in Norway. The job that the EOS Committee is doing, which is a very important instance to control the secret services, must continue. I am pleased that there is agreement on a sample to look at how we can strengthen and improve the work of the EOS Committee. However, there is no doubt that today’s monitoring challenges are wider than what the sample is set to look at. It's about how easy it is for different actors to monitor each of us. It is about the large surveillance programmes of foreign countries, the possibility of foreign countries to monitor Norwegian citizens. It is about opportunities for business and private surveillance, i.e. the threat of surveillance no longer needs to come only from government teams. It is about the data and information security of industry and it is about the corresponding data and information security of the authorities. The task of the big deal in such a situation is to meet the public unrest that all these revelations have created with a new debate about how we strengthen privacy in our time. Therefore, I think it would be wise for the Storting to take the initiative of a new Commission that could update us, and, at best, give us an overall picture of what kind of monitoring challenges we are facing today, and launch a broad debate on the state of privacy against the challenges – a thorough presentation of what we know about monitoring Norwegian citizens, and what kind of impact this surveillance picture has on freedom of expression, privacy and trust in Norwegian society. I am pleased that the Committee asks that the new sample to evaluate the EOS Committee be given the task of discussing a range of issues that could point beyond what has been the mandate of the committee to date. However, I believe that this is not enough, and that it would make sense to distinguish between what the EOS Committee is going to do and the proposal for a wider Commission. Although I think it's good to see that more parties have taken an interest in our proposal, I'm still a little disappointed that we're standing alone voting for a commission today. I am surprised that no more parties are prepared to support the intention of such a proposal. I think the news that just before this debate began, that the European Court of Justice has now declared the Data Storage Directive invalid, is a news that puts this debate in its proper perspective. What the European Court of Justice has said is that the Data Storage Directive involves a very comprehensive and particularly serious interference with the fundamental right to respect for privacy and the protection of personal data. It is a very strong message to the majority of the population who voted through a Norwegian agreement to the directive. It should also be a very strong message to the Storting that perhaps not everyone has taken over with full weight and necessary force what kind of major challenges are involved in protecting the privacy of citizens. That in itself – that the assessment of the majority of the population in that case could be so wrong, against the fundamental rights of the inhabitants, should be a good argument for us to need a Commission of the type SV suggests. I would also like to take the opportunity to encourage the government, on the basis of what has now come from the European Court of Justice, to close immediately the work on implementing the Data Storage Directive. I know that there's someone in the government who'll do it with enthusiasm. I hope that they will now get through now that the court has come to its notice. With that, I would like to address the proposal that SV is alone in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e363	The representative Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e366	The work of the Lund Commission meant a very important clean-up in the Norwegian surveillance service. This led to a very important cleanup in Norwegian political debate. This also led to control mechanisms in Norway, such as the EOS Committee. I am quite proud that in Norway we have a function like the EOS Committee is. It's a function that very many countries should have copied from us -- especially those who have experienced the revelations we've seen lately. These revelations are quite daunting. It is also quite frightening that there is so little respect for privacy and privacy and the right of ordinary citizens to do so, including among those whom we cooperate with militarily. The great potential of data collection puts our EOS range under great pressure. Just as it strengthens cooperation between the PST and the E services, so it also puts pressure on our surveillance inspectors. I think that's very good arguments for strengthening the EOS committee. I think we should do that here at Stortinget. We should ensure that they have the capacity, competence and clear rules to follow, including at the e-service. I fully agree with all the points made by the rapporteur in this regard. But I believe that privacy in Norway is facing two challenges. One is what the Audun Lighthouse refers to. The solution to that is, I believe, a strengthened EOS selection. It is a good organ that we should make sure to strengthen, and not undermine by making a check of their control. There is nothing in any of the control reports that Stortinget has been submitted, which suggests that they do not do their job. What, on the other hand, is the great challenge for privacy is all the other collection of personal data that happens in society — all the private collection of information for which we do not have any control mechanisms. And we have a privacy law that almost never gets used. So I agree with the Audun Lighthouse, but just to a certain point. I think these services should be better monitored by a strengthened EOS selection. But we should have had someone who had again promised what was lifted by the Privacy Commission, which we got a few years back after a Left Initiative here in the Chamber – one of the few things that we actually got through in the eight years we had a Red-Green Government. We should have had that left, because it has changed so much since they got their mandate. They were given a rather narrow mandate, and much of it was not followed up. So a proper review of the state of privacy in Norway we should probably have had. Our challenge is that we can't have a society that means that if you know one in Telenor, one in the toll drive and one in the bank, one can have complete control of a person's movements. It's these perspectives that are frightening to us. This is also the case with the use of Big Data, where a small fragment of information can form images of us, which is a pretty big intervention in our privacy. I want to symbolize it with a story that became known in the United States for a while back, where a father went out hard against a company that sent direct advertising for children's clothing to his 15-year-old daughter. He didn't think it was nice – it didn't have anything to do with the company. The company complained and apologized to the family that they had been advertising so aggressively, on which the father had to call and apologize to the company two weeks later, because it was right that his 15-year-old daughter was pregnant – it was just that the family had not known. But the web searches of the daughter led the company to conclude that this was a customer who needed such a type of personalised advertising. It shows how little bits of information about our movements can reveal things that we don't even tell our closest at the time. It gives a little perspective on how privacy is challenged today. What may seem to be insignificant information about each individual may reveal quite a lot when it is put together. The left seems to have been in place if someone could have looked at how we protect each individual's privacy in this area, and we would like to cooperate with SV to make such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e381	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e397	In Norway, there are some children who are not looking forward to the 18th anniversary. For them, the day means that they will finally be refused the application to be in Norway and will have to leave. Some of these children and young people have been in Norway and on the run for many years. These are lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 18 who come to Norway without parents or others with parental responsibility who can protect them. It is young people who suffer trauma from war and conflict-torn countries, such as Afghanistan and Somalia. When they turn 18, we expect them to break with everything they've had here — perhaps the only security they've experienced in their entire life, health care, school — and return to the greatest insecurity they've ever escaped from. Some of these young people have spent most of their lives fleeing abroad, and many lack networks and support in their home country. This is precisely why it has not been possible to find caregivers to send them home. They must travel to some of the most difficult situations, security and humanitarian, we know, and make the most decisive choices in their lives on a very uncertain basis. In recent years, a few thousand of these have come to Norway. Most of them have been accommodated, but there is another small group that is not allowed to stay. When these matters were dealt with by the government, and adopted in 2009 they were put into action, SV hers in the government took on these and some other restrictions, because we thought it was wrong. Research and documentation have now shown that we were right. The reason for the scheme was that there were so many, and that less was to be done on a dangerous flight – the intrusions were to work on it. But the figures from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees show that the number of refugees has increased. In 2012, it was 21,300, and that's the highest number since statistics started. While more children in the world are fleeing, the numbers in Norway went down, so the curfew doesn't do anything because the children have to flee, it just makes sure they don't get to escape here. UDI confirmed by letter to the Ministry of Justice and Security in 2013 that the measure had little impact on the arrivals from Afghanistan, Somalia and Eritrea. It is these countries that have most children and young people on the run. The figures show that there were 17 lone minor asylum seekers who received this limited permit in 2013, and a place between 160 000 and 180 000 in total – I have got slightly different numbers from slightly different searches. What happens to them? Some have travelled to their home country, a third live in an asylum facility, a third we do not know where they are, several have disappeared, have chosen to go underground, or have fled again in Europe. What happens to them, we can only imagine, but the High Commissioner says that a lone minor asylum seeker is on the run in the most vulnerable group, with the risk of mental problems, abuse, trafficking in human beings and being forced into new crime. Are we contributing to this? And is that good policy? It's not going to be so much imagination to imagine the great human costs when you're going to wait for what you're most afraid of. And the responsible authorities know that this is going to be difficult, because in a letter to the Ministry of Justice and Defence on 28 January 2013, UDI writes: ‘This is particularly true in cases where the applicant has very weak links with the home Member State and the lack of networks at the place of residence, and there is a generally difficult humanitarian and security situation in the home Member State.’; UDI warns in the letter that they want a review of their own practices, because they consider the consequences of the temporary authorisations to be harmful. What will the Minister of Justice do with UDI's recommendations? How the waiting time in limbo is, we've been seen through the documentary of Margreth Olin. The film was entitled "The Others". Many of the young people are injured by what they have experienced before, and the decision and treatment they receive here also causes them severe mental illness while they are waiting to be sent out. Several have had long-standing hospitalizations and reports about anxiety disorders and depression. Many people think of taking their own lives. Olin tells us that of the 20 young people she followed closely for a long time, three had tried to take their own life, one on 18th birthday. Article 39 of the Children's Convention states that all appropriate measures shall be taken: ‘to promote the physical and mental rehabilitation and social reintegration of a child who has been subjected to: any form of abuse, exploitation or abuse; torture or any other form of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; or armed conflicts’. Health professionals say that it is impossible to obtain this with young people with a temporary residence permit, because of the uncertain situation that these young people are in. It is very difficult to provide trauma treatment to young people when they are panicked. Juvenile legal certainty is a question for young people. Several young people say that they did not know what they were doing during the asylum interview or how important the interview was. Several have left behind telling about the assaults and incidents they have been subjected to. It's related to shame, and we know how it works. It is difficult for them to understand the nature of the decision and why the authorisation is limited in time. Health information shall be given weight, but no systematic monitoring is possible. There is no system to ensure that health information from reception staff, associations and others who know young people is continued in the asylum procedure. A life-cycle study has been carried out by the Institute for Social Research, entitled ‘Life year in reception for lone minor asylum seekers’. It shows exactly the same thing, that many become physically and mentally ill. All of the cases that Olin showed in his film are left in this study. Some of the young people go to school, but it's often ruined by insomnia and absence, because they know they're going to travel. It takes all powers. Researchers say that employees with limited child-care and refugee knowledge give young people poor conditions. Researchers ask whether the principle of the best interests of the child is adequately addressed. How will the State Council follow up these recommendations of the report? Save Barna's book «While we're waiting» and Save Barna's «A serious big message» show that the children lack adult contact. Recently, the Norwegian asylum seeker organisation presented the note ‘Recommendations to Norwegian authorities Lone minor asylum seekers’. They write that the scheme affects a group of children disproportionately and recommend that it be abolished. They propose a number of measures to improve the follow-up of children. How will the Council of States follow the recommendations given, both from the NOAS and from the Red Barna? It's not just NOAS, Save Barna and SV who want this. Norway’s children’s and youth organisations, representing almost 650 000 members, believe this. Many other organisations have supported this. Even the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, said during the 2013 election campaign that the Progress Party wanted ‘to abolish the scheme’ and that the then government broke the Children’s Convention ‘every single day’ by maintaining it. The Youth of the Advance Party was quickly out there and supported this. What does the Minister of Justice mean – from the same party? It is not that all children should stay in Norway or that we should have free immigration. We can put that debate aside, because no one is serious about it. It's about not being able to have schemes that make already vulnerable children and young people even sicker. It's about every human being being being a goal in itself, and we can't use other people as pieces or as a means to achieve other political goals. In this case, it turned out that it did not work either – it did not achieve the changes that were claimed to have been made. We have evidence that the system of temporary authorisation for lone minor asylum seekers does not lead to fewer children taking refuge in the world, and we have evidence that the scheme itself harms a vulnerable group of young people. We know that many of them do not travel to their homeland afterwards, but that they spend on an uncertain flight further in the world, and that it hardly contributes to anything positive, either for them or for the place they come to. Having a temporary stay in Norway is a particularly demanding situation. Former traumatic experiences and the idea of a hopeless future surpass most of what young people tolerate. These kids have suffered enough. The temporary authorisation system must be terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e450	Individuals in asylum policy are often bad for those who do not have the right to stay. It underlines the importance of robust and consistent legislation. Let me point out that the temporary authorisation system, pending the return of lone minor asylum seekers – as the representative Karin Andersen has mentioned in the interview, to which she herself pointed out – was introduced by the Stoltenberg II Government in 2009. The aim was to reduce the arrival of asylum seekers without a need for protection and to protect children from being sent on a dangerous journey towards Europe and Norway. The authorisation, to which the representative refers in his statement and in the interview, may be granted to applicants for asylum who are young, between 16 and 18 years of age and who have no grounds for staying in Norway other than the lack of a sound care provision in their home country. I would like to stress here that we are talking about the cases where children do not meet either the requirement for protection or the requirement for a residence permit on a humanitarian basis in Norway. Children who need and require protection in Norway have it. The law also allows children to be granted a residence permit for humanitarian reasons. There is also a lower threshold for staying for children than for adults. However, if there is no need for protection or strong human interests, the starting point, including for those between 16 and 18 years of age, is that the asylum application should be rejected. Refusal implies an obligation to return home, both for adults and for minor asylum seekers residing in Norway. However, a temporary permit pending a return gives young people between 16 and 18 years of age the opportunity to stay legally in Norway until they are fit to take office — and must therefore be expected to be able to do so on their own. This also implies an obligation to return to the country of origin after he/she has reached the age of 18. Very few of the lone minor asylum seekers coming to Norway receive such an authorisation. Since the scheme was introduced in 2009 and until February of this year, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has granted 168 such authorisations. However, there is reason to believe – despite the claims made by the representative Andersen – that it has had a significant impact in the intrusive direction that the government of Stoltenberg II wanted it to have, namely that fewer asylum seekers between 16 and 18 years of age have come to Norway without a residence requirement. There are two alternatives if you choose to cancel the scheme. Either a normal residence permit may be granted to all children who come to Norway, whether or not they fulfil the conditions for protection or residence on a humanitarian basis. It is not government policy and will create a number of major challenges, both for children and for others. Alternatively, non-complying children may be refused, but there will be major challenges associated with forcing minors who do not have a proper care offer in their home country. It is – first of all – important that the content of the permit be clearly communicated. There shall be no doubt about its rights and limitations. Secondly, the tracing work must continue, even after authorisation has been granted. If the child’s superiors are found in the home country before the child reaches the age of 18, there is no reason for the child to wait in Norway until the 18th birthday. As regards the report the representative refers to, it was delivered on request of the UDI. A number of recommendations are followed up by the UDI through changes in the procedures and requirements for the reception work. These are ongoing processes and issues that are part of the ongoing work of the UDI. It is clear from the cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left that we want to transform the Norwegian reception structure. In addition to being a residence offer, asylum-seekers shall contribute to the faster integration of those granted a residence permit and the faster return of those refused protection. This is new, compared to what has previously been the purpose of accommodation. The cooperation agreement also provides for the current reception structure for lone minor asylum seekers to be maintained, but for single minors who are refused or who are due to be returned under the Dublin Agreement, the focus on rapid return must be significantly strengthened. It may also be appropriate to look at improvements in the follow-up to the reception structure. The report referred to by the representative Andersen contains a number of recommendations. Several of them have boundary surfaces against other ongoing processes and will be assessed where relevant. Some of these also have implications for the responsibilities of other sectors. Where this is the case, the relevant departments have been made aware of the recommendations contained in the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e476	I have to say I had expected the Council of State to go into the facts that have been presented, because it has to have some consequences for the political assessments that are made in the case. First, I want to get hold of a word that the Council of State used at first in its introduction, where he said we need a robust system. What does it mean that we're going to have a robust system? Does that mean that we can have a system that we know today is such that some of these young people are unable to properly present their case because they are afraid, because they have been on the run for many years, and because they may also have been told a lot of lies about how to behave when they arrive at an asylum interview? How can the system be robust enough in terms of legal certainty for these young people? How can this system be robust enough to follow them up in such a way that we do not cause further damage to their health? No one disagrees that attempts should be made to find the superiors of the children and that they should be as compatible as possible with them. Everyone agrees, but the problem in these matters is that you can't find them. The only answer the council now has is to say that it should be just like it is. So the Council of State says that in the agreement that has now been agreed, a new reception structure has been created, and that you have to focus on faster returns. The impact on the findings that have now been made on children’s health, for example: that they will not be able to complete health care, that they will not be able to concentrate and get sick from the very idea that they will go back to something they may not have been in contact with for many years, where they do not know anyone? How, then, has the Council of State planned to implement this? Has the Council also reviewed how this is handled in other countries? Not all countries have this system in Norway. Some other countries do not have the restrictions on lone minor asylum seekers that Norway has. Finally, it has had an intrusive effect. Yes, it does. It has had a penetrating effect only for Norway. For children who are forced to flee the world, it has had a negative effect because fewer of them can come to Norway, so these effects are only for Norway and not for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e487	I think I'll start with the last one. I do not know whether the representative forgets it or skips it, but these are children who do not have the right to stay, who do not have the right to asylum, who do not have the right to protection or to stay on a humanitarian basis. I think it is also important for the trust in Norwegian asylum policy that we ensure, as far as possible, that people – regardless of age – who do not have the right to protection do not come to Norway. This has been affected by this arrangement. I agree that it is important to take seriously the health challenges experienced by these young people at the time they are still in Norway. There we have a cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, but above all it is important to ensure that municipalities are able to provide the services they are to provide to this vulnerable group. It is now working together across departments to see how we can best solve this in the future. I didn't say we should have a robust system. We should, of course, have that too, but I said that we should have a robust and consistent regulatory framework, because it sets the framework for the asylum policy to be pursued in Norway. I am a little surprised that the representative was going to discuss a system that is not robust and consistent. We disagree on what the content of the legislation should be – we would like to be – but that the legislation must be robust and consistent, I don't think one should spend a lot of time discussing it. We also believe it is important to return more quickly after age 18, but it then requires – the reason I mentioned it in my original response, was simply that it is important – that one in advance of the return also prepares for return, not only mentally, but also in order to contribute to knowledge, the ability to have contact, to any returnees in the home country, etc. The point is to ensure a more effective and good follow-up of these minors who do not have the right to stay, either for protection or on a humanitarian basis. I am a little wondering whether the representative Andersen really thinks it is good to have an alternative system that would allow all children under the age of 18 to have an automatic stay in Norway. This would result in a huge turnaround and a large increase in the number of minor asylum seekers who would come to Norway and who would then be given the right to stay and family reunification without initially claiming neither protection nor residence on a humanitarian basis. I think that will stimulate one more child in the dangerous journey from home, and I don't understand that Andersen's representative wants to stimulate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e498	Save the children traveled around to hear how children and young people were doing on the asylum recipients, and then they met a youth who replied that the way I am going now only lasts until I am 18. Afterwards I know nothing, then I have no way. We know that in the autumn of 2008, the red-green government introduced a number of measures to tighten asylum policy, including: limited residence for single minor applicants over 16 years of age, which means that these children will only be allowed to stay until they reach 18 years of age, and then be thrown out of the country. Then it was very interesting for me to investigate the number of people involved – we're going to be a humane country. Yes, in 2011 it was 35 children, and in 2012 it was 17 children. I thought the background for this was a completely different number. It turns out that most of these children come to Norway for protection, but rather have received up to two years of waiting time in fear and uncertainty about what awaits them on the day they reach the age of 18. The reason for this was to reduce the number of children coming to Norway and to reduce the number of children leaving their country of origin. With this change, the government wanted to give a signal that it was not worth the risk of taking a flight. The figures show that this policy has only partly had the desired result. The number of asylum seekers in Norway has dropped somewhat, that is right, but there has been little impact on children from Afghanistan, Somalia and Eritrea, which are the countries with the highest number of arrivals in Norway. At the same time, we also see that the number of refugees coming to Europe has risen, and there is no sign that this will fall. The need for protection will therefore increase and not decrease, regardless of signals sent by Norway. These kids get their lives on hold, they can't start education and can't plan the future. When we know at the same time that many of these have experienced traumas in the home country or on the run and need security and stability to process this, but instead new mental stress is imposed on having to wait until the 18th anniversary and broadcast, we have to do something. Instead of giving them a future, we send them back to countries that they may have been fleeing from in much of life, completely without networks or perhaps family. We in the Christian People's Party believe this is unacceptable, and believe that immigration reasons may have gone ahead of some of the needs of these most vulnerable people in our country. We have addressed this on several occasions in Stortinget. Therefore, when examining the ‘Child in Action’ in 2012, we promoted a proposal for a regulatory change that clearly states that consideration for the best interests of children should take precedence over immigration-regulating considerations. The UN Children’s Convention Committee has also expressed and criticised Norway for the fact that the child’s best interests have not been sufficiently ahead of immigration regulatory considerations. This also applies to returns. The interesting thing is that the proposal was voted down by the majority of the population and the government parties, including SV. It is therefore good to see today that SV is back on the weak side by raising this interference. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to establish a predictable, fair and humane asylum and immigration policy. We want to contribute to it with this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e515	There are really two ways, from two perspectives, to look at politics: one is to look at the effects it has on each individual; the other is to see what effect it has on the community, on society as a whole. Sometimes the effects on the individual have so negative consequences that one has to weigh it against the effects it has on the collective. This I believe is one of those areas. As liberals, I usually have this individual focus. I have traveled around many receptions. I would like to say the following: I have spoken to many women who have escaped alone, and who have fled from land to land, who have fled in boats, in trucks – in every possible context. When I ask how such a flight is for women, they say that we women have only one thing to offer when the money is gone. That means you meet a lot of empty eyes. People have been subjected to many terrible abuses to gain the freedom they believe Norway can offer. Children talk very rarely about what they have experienced. Based on my knowledge of how many women have experienced, I don't think what children have experienced is any less evil. The question is, do we accept them in such a way that they can live adult lives, even with what they carry from flight? Is it that we also give children the follow-up that enables them to pursue their dreams no matter where those dreams are to be realized? Many refugees with great faith in justice in Norway. I've talked to a lone minor asylum seeker – just from this group that's what this is about. He is from Afghanistan, and in Afghanistan he lived alone with his father – a father who worked as an interpreter for Norway. When the father was shot by the Taliban, he had only one thought in his head: I have to collect all the papers that showed that my father worked for Norway, and then I have to get to Norway. He had no other family back in Afghanistan. There are many stories behind a flight, and many of them are built on the belief that justice is valid in Norway. Many of them do not have enough information before the first asylum interview, and many of them have a very complex past behind them. Sometimes we politicians have to check whether the policy works against reality. The left was opposed when this scheme was introduced by the previous government. We have to admit that we might have thought that that's why the previous government actively trained an introduction of the right to complain in the Children's Convention as they actually did. I believe that now we've got on the table what this really leads to, and what this really leads to is that we give many children such a bad start that they won't succeed either in Norway or in any other country when we can't give them better follow-up than we do. We believe that this system should have been scrapped. We realize that there's no majority in Stortingen to do that. The ‘principal’ commitment of the masses of political parties under Karin Andersen’s interpellation is probably also quite revealing. I think it's important that we politicians dare to check whether what we adopt here in this room actually works. Finally, I have a challenge for the Minister of Justice. I asked the previous Minister of Justice of the previous government a number of times about whether to register attempted maritime murder and other psychological harassment in reception. Then I always got the answer: No. Now I have visited a lot of receptions – everyone says they register it. Everybody says they're reporting it to the UDI, but the UDI won't sum up these columns. So my challenge to the Minister of Justice is that he might ask them to sum up these columns as the asylum recipients tell me they're reporting. We have to be able to talk the truth about what's happening out there. There's no need to underestimate that information sail about the previous Minister of Justice would not be telling the truth about the actual numbers you had on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e534	I would like to thank my fellow representatives from the Christian People's Party and the Left for participating in the debate. I fully agree with everything they have said. I also want to say that when the Council of State is here, it's probably because he has to because I've asked him to. The party of progress has not taken the floor, the right has not taken the floor and the Labour Party has not taken the floor. It says well why these things are standing still. It also says it's about who's saying that immigration policy considerations should always count the most. Suffering if we have ratified the Children's Convention and believe that we are fulfilling it, I must say I am in doubt in these matters. This means that when the conflict is there, the child’s best option is to make a claim. When we look at these reports that show how the impact of the policy we are pursuing today is, it is very difficult to understand that it is correct. For example, this is a case in point. on the handling of matters by the foreign student. According to the Children's Convention, children have the right to be heard. Is it, then, in line with the Convention that we do not hear the lone minor asylum seekers in the complaint procedure? I hear that someone thinks that it's enough that UDI does it, but we know how hard it is for many of these kids to tell what they've really experienced. Do we then meet the requirements of the Children's Convention? We act as if this were highly educated academics, who are adults and have lived safe lives, so that they can handle this robust system we have. Is it true that we are actually recording who have health problems that could provide the basis for humanitarian stay? No, I'm not sure. I strongly doubt it after the large and extensive investigations that have now been carried out, and also after the enquiries that UDI has made to the Department of Matters. Are we, then, sure that the decisions taken are correct? Some of the things we saw in the film "The Others" of Margreth Olin were transformed because there were others who came in and then. It became public, and you got on the table the real situation for these kids. Is it so that all of these young people have someone who sees them and who can help them in this process? No, that's not it. It's not that individuals like Margreth Olin or NOAS can follow each of them. I believe that these studies we have now received need to change our policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e549	State Council Anundsen has an opportunity to make a final statement – in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e552	Thanks for the last clarification – that it was the last article in this case – so I can come back to Stortinget later. I have some brief comments to the representative Tuskedal who mentioned an example of a visit he had had, with one who said that after he was 18, he knew nothing. It underlines the need, as I was in my reply, to inform thoroughly about what is actually the consequence of not having a claim on asylum – even when you are a minor – and that the consequence is that you should be returned when you are 18 years old, so that you do not have any uncertainty about it. We obviously have an improvement potential to inform them better and contribute to a safe and sound return. So I think that's a good point. But this is also the case – despite what the Tuske Valley says that children obviously need security and stability – that they must have asylum, they must also have a need for protection. That's the whole point of the asylum institute, and I think it's important that we don't contribute to eroding the asylum institution in one way or another. There is no doubt that the intensification that actually took place in 2009 has had an impact on the number of lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 18 who have come to Norway, and that was the point. Therefore, it is not quite right to use the figures as a basis for the scheme to fail, because the starting point was that these figures should be reduced and they have been reduced. So you could say that the effect of the change is pretty good. So I would like to say a few words related to Trine Skei Grande's challenge when it came to registering, among other things. attempted suicide. I have to look into that further, and I will go through the questions the representative has asked to the former Council of State, and see what kind of reports we have. We fully agree that we should be open about politics and present the facts on which we are based, so I must be allowed to investigate them a little bit. Then I'm not in as much doubt as Andersen's representative about whether we're following up on the Children's Convention. I believe that we do that, and the best thing for children will be an individual assessment during the procedure. But I would like to stress again that the children we are talking about here – the minors we are talking about – are minors who have neither protection needs nor demands to stay for humanitarian reasons. This is not a general attitude towards minors. Only those children who have already been told that they do not have a need for protection or a requirement to stay because of humanitarian conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e564	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e578	As rapporteur, I would like to stress that the purpose of the introduction of this Directive is to improve access to up-to-date and reliable business information. A unanimous committee is behind the vote and, in this context, the Committee points out that enterprises are expanding increasingly beyond borders, which in turn implies increasing demand for business information in the context of cross-border activities. The Committee also underlines the importance that the introduction of the Directive will contribute to simplification and reduce administrative burdens for business, and that this should not affect the national business information fees. The Committee has also noted that the implementation of the Directive requires legislative changes and that the government will promote a proposition to the Stortinget with the necessary amendments to the Business Registers Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e589	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e603	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers from each group and six replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e612	The representatives of André N. Skjelstad, Pål Farstad, Ola Elvestuen and Abid Q. Raja has presented a proposal for a comprehensive plan for soil protection. It is a Joint Liaison Committee which today endorses the Left's proposal by means of a soil protection strategy. A soil protection strategy is in line with the intentions of the Left in the draft representative that we are discussing. There is a need for an overall review of the instruments of soil protection to further strengthen soil protection, says a Joint Committee. The suspension points to various instruments that should be considered when proposing such a soil protection strategy for treatment in Stortinget by the government. One of the instruments identified by the Committee is good agronomy. In order to ensure and optimise the use of agricultural land, the farmer must be able to use his best knowledge. Then she or he must have both time for it and capital to invest in the earth. Then digging, liming and maintenance are important measures. We also know that there is good monitoring of the food values in our food soils through both Bioforsk and Forest and landscapes, and we know that it is the best soil that is built down first. That is why the Committee in its position also says that we should perhaps consider whether there should be a difference in price according to the quality of the soil. Another measure pointed out by the Committee is that when food land is taken out of food production for other purposes, it may be appropriate to require that the grower has to finance re-cultivation equivalent to the production potential that is then re-disposaled. This is also a measure pointed out by the Committee. The fraction of what may be needed to replant the area that has been redispatched is a bit of a professional disagreement. The Committee therefore does not take a position on this, but points out that it is an instrument. The movement of food soil is a theme that often comes up in soil protection discussions. For the time being, in Norway, we have few successful projects on this, but we know that other countries have come further. Moving food soils is a demanding process. We're going to take care of the different soil layers. We're going to take care of soil structures. We know that temperature and humidity are recording. But this is the other countries that have come further, and we should follow the tests that are now being done carefully. In 2005, the re-disposal target was set – that it should not be re-disposaled more than 5,600 jobs per year. This is an important objective that should continue to apply and the Committee stresses that this important target should be part of the soil protection strategy and also guide the actions that should be included in such a strategy. The Committee is also concerned that there is a need for stricter and clearer legislative instruments and that it is also considered when presenting such a strategy. Taking care of food soil is about thinking from a generation perspective. We know that the processes of forming good food soil can take hundreds to thousands of years, and we know that building down is pretty fast. That is why there is also an overall committee that underlines this. It is a political goal that we should increase food production as the population progresses over the next few years, and then the food soil is one of the most important inputs. Last week we got a report from the United Nations that tells us that we get wilder and wetter weather types. It will also be a challenge in terms of food production, and then we will have to take care of the food soil. Norwegian Agricultural Cooperation called for the development of a vulnerability and preparedness analysis. This may be a recording that the Council of State can include in the further work. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to say that the issue of soil protection has been high on the agenda with this government. There is impatience in the matter in order to get this strategy back from the government, so I hope it can happen within a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e642	It is good that there is an overall nutrition committee that now concludes on the need for soil protection strategy. Why is it so dangerous to take off the arable land? Indeed, Norway is among those countries in the world with the least edible soil per capita, and the arable area is less than 3pst. of the total area of the country. Nevertheless, over 1 million dekar has been redispatched for other purposes in the last 50 years. It shows that strong soil protection is absolutely necessary. Because if we're going to have a food production that can be maintained for self-sufficiency, and if we're going to achieve our goal of increasing food production, we need the arable land we have available here in the country. We need to focus on the fact that there are different types of soil within cultivated land. It is particularly important to preserve the arable land of such quality that it can be used to produce cereals. The best decisions are made by providing a knowledge-based decision-making basis for establishing that plan. The Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes' new maps with an overview of the arable land can be a good tool to use when we're outstripping the course ahead. Our government, that is, the Stoltenberg government, took important steps to strengthen soil protection. Developments after 2005 show that the re-disposal of cultivated land has been significantly lower compared to the decade before. In 2012, according to the COSTRA figures from the SSB, 6,567 decars of cultivated land were redispatched for purposes other than agriculture. It is the lowest recorded re-disposal of cultivated land since registration started in 1976. We were in the process of achieving the objectives we had set before, of limiting the re-disposal of cultivated land to less than 6,000 deches per target. In order to tighten the redisposal, letters were sent to municipalities, county councils and county councillors during the previous period, clarifying the importance of a strong protection of the soil. The county has been given an objection authority following the closure of the County Agricultural Board. We also believe that it is very important that soil protection is focused on national expectations of municipalities and counties. This is why the new Planning and Building Act introduced more instruments to strengthen soil protection. In NTP in 2009, considered soil protection was actually included for the first time. These measures have worked, but there is still a need for stronger soil protection with clear targets for new measures. Despite the decline in the numbers, the level of re-disposal of the best soil remains too high. The Labour Party believes that local and regional initiatives, creativity and commitment are important to promote desired development. It is necessary to facilitate the use of instruments in different districts and urban areas. In the Workers' Party, we have talked about the need to put in place a national soil protection strategy. Such a strategy should stimulate local authorities to raise awareness of land use. Here we need to be able to see whether carrots and other positive incentives can be used, but it is also important that the strategy has clear national targets. The Committee agrees that stronger and clearer legislative instruments and a legal basis for the protection of cultivated soils need to be developed. An operational scheme for innovation for the future should also be considered. Furthermore, both soil migration, land-replacement funds, the protection of soil law and the re-disposal of food land are important issues that the entire committee is behind and that we believe must be included in the strategy. The Labour Party looks forward to the Minister of Food and Agriculture returning to the Stortinget and presenting his proposal for a national strategy as soon as possible, and we are pleased with the joint decision taken on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e659	There have been good explanations from both the case rapporteur and – in and on its own – from the representative, Botten, but there are some additional points. I think it is quite interesting that the original proposals in the document are not being promoted and that there is a common position on working through a strategy. I think that made a lot of sense. For the original proposals, almost all developments would have been stopped pending an investigation and an examination of the case. I think that might have been quite expensive. I think you should recognize that the awareness of soil protection and how we use land resources in Norway is quite high. It says itself with such a small amount of land that we have that is useful for agriculture. But it's clear that this has to be a balance with the needs of the big society – we'll never know that it has to be there. There, I think, there's a line in terms of who believes in as much national governance as possible, and that you override local democracy, and who believes in local democracy, and that you actually have to stimulate local democracy to raise awareness and to make decisions based on local circumstances. There is certainly a small line through the committee – with different views. That's why I'm looking forward to a strategy here, because it's clear that maintaining the productive capacity of soil has many aspects – it's not just the area that counts there. We know that we have a tunnel problem, and we know that we have a land problem in Norwegian agriculture. As I use to say, no one delivers the rental car in the washed state. It's kind of the same with soil, you actually take better care of what you have than what you rent. A strategy could also include a discussion of the extent to which land can be moved, the extent to which a fund can be set up and, by expropriation or redispatch, require payment on a fund to ensure the regeneration of the corresponding area. I really look forward to that strategy. I think it was good to clarify that there are some lines through the committee that we will probably come back to and debate later.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e672	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a very good and balanced presentation of the case, a matter which it initially seemed to be a major disagreement around, but on which there has been a great deal of agreement in the committee. Norway is dependent on food production. Even more so, this dependence will grow in the future. There are few, if any, who at all believe that Norway can rely on only imports of food. I think that's believing in Santa Claus, and there's not so many who do. We know that China is one of the countries that are in the greatest growth in the world, where the economy is in great progress. It's now approx. 100 million Chinese who are in the upper middle class and who make ever greater demands on their food. We also know that this number is going to triple in just a few decades, and the need that the Chinese have for food will be considerably greater, and the need for quality food will be greater. It goes without saying that Norway should be in a situation where we can produce our own food and not depend on others who could risk finding that they might sell to China instead of to Norway. But we need agricultural land, and there is a consensus in all parties, and not least in the government, that we need to focus on soil protection – that it is important that we take care of the food soil we have. Norway is probably the country in Europe with the lowest percentage of cultivated area compared to the total area, and therefore the importance of taking care of the food soil is also great. But then we have the challenge that every time we do some expansion, some kind of intervention, in Norway, it's often around the big cities and the dents of these interventions. That's also where we have the food soil. It's around where there's food, that there's been built infrastructure, towns and cities. This is why it is important to balance the re-disposal — whether this is of major national importance — of looking at the needs of the big society. But I think it's going to be a mistake if it's going to be nationally governed, that there are going to be national rules that decide this. In fact, the party strongly believes that local authorities are able to decide this on their own, that local authorities know the needs that are, know the local conditions, and can therefore take a decision that is right for the municipality or region where these interventions are to take place. On the other hand, there are a number of issues in which state overarching might have to go in, such as: in the case of major infrastructure measures, such as road and rail. There, I see the importance of the possibility that, in some cases, local authorities may have to be overruled. It makes sense that we have now come to the conclusion that we are going to have a soil protection strategy and not a binding soil protection plan, and that through such a strategy we are not going to go so far as to put into question the disposal requests that have been made, which – as the representative Gundersen was also involved – will lead to a standstill in development, which we are not served with. I am pleased that the Committee has reached the result it has achieved, and then we hope and expect the Council of State to come to the Grand Duchy with a strategy that we can all agree on and think is sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e696	I have a question of clarification. In the soil protection debate we had in Stortinget on 9 January, the Minister of Agriculture said that bundling municipalities was the most important measure to protect the food soil. I think that since it is not mentioned in any kind of comments, it might be good to know what the Progress Party in the Stortinge thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e703	That opinion results in correctness. In some cases, it has been shown – and this has also emerged from rapporteurs – that if there had been larger municipalities, the areas that have been redispatched would probably not have been redispatched, because there had been other opportunities. We saw that, among other things. in Vestby – I believe it was where this opinion came from the rapporteur. So we believe that municipal mergers will have a big impact. Whether it's the most important one, I shouldn't say, but that it'll have a big impact on re-disposal, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e710	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e713	There has been a good treatment and not least a good consultation on this matter in Stortinget. I think it's been an interesting treatment, which, not least in a good way, has illustrated how marginally affluent resources we actually have in Norway. When only 3 pst. of the land area in the country is cultivated land, and a small proportion of it is again possible to use for cereal land, it is clear that this is a resource which is not in practice renewable. There is an extra big reason to take care of this resource. That is why there is also a very close link – and I think that was also well established in the hearing – between the goal of increased food production and increased maritime supply of basic foods and our ability to take care of the cultivated and arable soil that we have. This is how we have improved on it in Norway — much better. Over the past eight years, the re-disposal of cultivated and arable land has fallen considerably. In 2012, 6 500 targets of land cultivation were redispatched for purposes other than agriculture. It's the lowest re-disposal of cultivated land we've had since the registrations started in 1976. This also means that we have halved the decline over the period 1999–2004, when, at least for three of the five years, we combined over 20,000 targets of cultivated and arable land. It also means – I think – that the national target that was set, if not building down food soils, has had a function. It's worked. This has meant that the various sectors have taken that issue into account in the planning of their activities. This also means that municipalities have taken this into account to a greater extent in their spatial planning. That's good. It is important that that redistribution goes even further down. It is therefore positive that today there is an overall committee that wants a national strategy for soil protection to be addressed in the Storting and that, in this context, the Committee also points to a number of instruments that can be used. The background to the Left's proposal was obviously that we have now seen some major issues in which the government has shown so-called feasibility by allowing the reduction of large land cultivated. This was the case with the discussed development plans of IKEA on Delijordet in the municipality of Vestby, where it was about 70 decare cultivated land. This was not least what the municipality of Trondheim has planned to build dwellings on grain soils around and in Trondheim, which – if everything is realized – could mean that a person redisperses or builds up approx. 1 100 decaves cultivated land. I have to say that the Trondheims example is a very good example of one not having to have a municipal merger to take into account the cultivated land. In the Trondheims region, they had excellent cooperation between municipalities. Malvik municipality had large vacant areas that were not on cultivated land, which could be used for the type of housing. They also agreed on this in the Trondheims region, but it was Trondheim's municipality that chose not to follow the good cooperation they have had between the municipalities. Such a strategy is positive – the Central Party supports it. The centre party had wanted you to be able to wait to deal with the matters that are now settled, because we see that there are probably more cases coming. I am thinking then of the proposal for a freight terminal south of Trondheim, for which the Right Party and the Progress Party have now taken the order, which – if put on Søberg in Melhus – will mean a reduction of 600 targets of cultivated land, in addition to what one has already released for degradation in the Trondheim area. In any case, it suggests that there is a need for a national strategy as quickly as possible, and that the government returns to the Grand Duchy with a broad review of this issue before a risk of a new, valuable cultivated area being subjected to a pressure for degradation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e733	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e736	The representative Arnstad was involved in the problem around Trondheim and Malvik and this with municipal mergers. There have been no municipal mergers. In large establishments in municipalities there is always a competition between municipalities to get the opportunity to establish, among other things. major nutrient chains. That's why Trondheim stood firm and got this. Does the representative Arnstad see the challenge of municipalities competing for the allocation of commercial land?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e745	I see that there is competition between the municipalities for that type of area, but I can't see that there is any argument to merge the municipalities. But that's an argument that the municipalities are actually good at talking to each other and cooperating with each other, and in this case, with Trondheim and Malvik, there's a need for Trondheim to take more account of its surroundings, not just thinking about what's happening within the city's borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e750	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e753	Thanks to the President-in-Office for a good and balanced review of the case. After World War II, nearly 1.2 million Decares of cultivated and arable land have been redispatched. This is worrying and shows that the Norwegian food market is under increasing pressure, despite stated policy objectives to limit the degradation of food soils. Just forming a few centimeters of food soil can take hundreds of years. So the degradation of food soil is essentially an irreversible process. Food soils that have been built down cannot be re-used for food production, practically. It is the best-quality soil that is most often redisposed. The reason, through history, is that people have settled in the areas of the best food soil. As a result, today’s most productive food fields are close to cities and agglomerations. Here it is good soil quality and good arrondance and slope, while here the food soil is under the greatest degradation pressure. For this reason, the Left is very pleased that a Joint Steering Committee on the Great Britain has supported the Left's initiative and the proposal to develop a comprehensive national thinking to strengthen soil protection. This is very important for Norwegian agriculture and for Norwegian food production. We've seen for a long time that land management in Norway leads to a bit-by-bit degradation of the food soil, and this leads to land that should have been used for food production being used for other purposes. With a comprehensive soil protection strategy, we can now put an end to it. The left indicates that there are many different characteristics of an agricultural area that affect the nature of the production potential. Firstly, the soil itself has different suitability as a place of growth for cultural plants. Secondly, the size and the degree of slope of the agricultural area are of great importance for the rational use of the land. Thirdly, the climate is crucial for which crops can be grown on an area. The left knows that a very small part of Norway meets all these natural conditions for sustainable, efficient food production. Knowledge of the production potential of agricultural land therefore needs to be given greater emphasis in decisions on the reallocation of agricultural land. This knowledge should also be reflected in the overall soil protection strategy. Left believes there is a hairy balance between moving as a remedy where there are very heavy concerns that speak for degradation, and moving as an argument in itself for the degradation of food soil. When the food soil is moved, the production capacity of the soil is unlikely to be maintained. Important characteristics of the Earth itself have evolved over several thousand years, and many of these have deteriorated when the earth is moved on. The food soil works best when it gets to lie where it is formed and where a stable ecosystem has been developed. When moving food soils, the spread of weeds, fungi, bacteria, viruses and insects that may be harmful to both plants and animals are important risk factors that need to be strongly taken into account. The left indicates that Bioforsk has experience in various projects involving the relocation of food soils and that a clear conclusion from them is that it is not possible to establish general plans and guidelines for such measures. It is therefore appropriate to make separate plans based on local conditions when moving food soils. That is why, in the view of the Left, a comprehensive soil protection strategy is essential which also takes account of these considerations. In addition to knowledge of the production potential of agricultural land and knowledge of local conditions if soil is being considered as being moved, a soil protection strategy should also assess instruments and incentives that stimulate municipalities to give priority to soil protection, i.e. that local authorities take far more into account the protection of soil in land planning and land use. It is appropriate to consider whether to introduce a shelter into the soil law, a legal protection when cultivated and arable land will reduce the pressure on the food soil for expansion purposes and make the soil less interesting for buying-in, for example. re-disposal and expansion. Like the representative Arnstad, I would also have liked us to have been able to prevent the implementation of already adopted developments, but I am very pleased that we now have a common plan that the whole committee can stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e772	SV supports the proposal that is in the position today, and we do so because a national policy in the field of soil protection is needed. This is because both we and the government have said that we should increase the maritime supply of food for emergency reasons. Everyone's serious. But it has also been seen in the light of the new climate report, which puts even more emphasis on how climate change can affect agriculture and food production worldwide. They have put greater emphasis on this now than in previous IPCC reports, and the difference is, they say, that now we know more – we have more information, and the evidence is stronger and clearer. And what happens to agriculture in the rest of the world and in Norway makes us very vulnerable. It's plant species that can die, and it might quickly, so they can't adapt to new things. There may be areas where today many people live and food is grown, where it is not possible to be more because it is flooded, or there may be agricultural land that has water today, which does not have it in the future. This means that we have to look at our own maritime supply level also in light of the fact that there may be shortages of food in the world. Then we have a self-interest, of course, in ensuring that, but we also have a responsibility to use the areas we have, where food can be grown. In this case, the increased degree of maritime supply of food cannot be based on increased imports of feed. Then it's not a marine supply; then we take off the area elsewhere. The ground area in Norway is small. Much of the grain area is close to the cities. People have settled there because there were grain areas there. There is now also an increase in centralisation, which means that the pressure on the food soil has increased. Therefore, it is not enough with a community merger or municipal cooperation to ensure that this food soil is better protected. You have to have some national targets, some national numbers, which say that so and so much food soil we have to have, and we actually have to grow more of what we have, than what we've done today. So it's a national, barely good, and if it's going to be a little bit bigger municipalities, it's going to be a bit-by-bit reduction that loses sight of the national important goal. I'm a hacked-out trailer of trains. I want double tracks, and I want lightning trains, and I know that some of it is going to have to go over where it is cultivated. I also want people to be able to live near the collective node, and I know that it can be a conflict, but then we have to get the national image of this, so we can see what's going on, not a bit-by-bit strategy. Now maps have come up to date, over all possible arable areas of the country. There are Forests and landscapes that have published these new maps. There we can see where this is. Much of it is in areas where it is not possible to grow cereals today. It's in the grasslands. Then it is necessary that we also have an agricultural policy that makes it possible to keep the areas in agricultural production and grow more of the areas that allow us to increase food production in Norway. Then it is not just the loss of food soil that has to be stopped, and not only the most cost-effective uses that have to be kept in claim, the soil has to be put into service. Then the setting discusses whether to enter the replacement area – if you have taken, for example. One covers the food soil, one has to grow one covers the food soil. In that case, I think you have to see if you are going to grow up two. Because if we're going to increase food production, we need to have an exchange mechanism in connection with the loss of food soil that makes us actually increase food production, and that at least we use the areas that the new maps now show us are possible. The problem here is that you can have to take the food soil one place and grow up somewhere else. There may be some problems with that, but we need to do that, we need to increase the degree of maritime supply of food.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e790	Firstly, I would like to thank the Left for a good initiative and a good proposal, and in the same sluggish Christian People's Party, which has raised this matter through several initiatives. Of course, on the part of the Greens, we are pleased that the Economic and Social Committee has agreed on a proposal for a strategy for the conservation of food soils. But this important debate we now have and have had several rounds in this period – because established policies for soil protection have failed for many decades in Norway. This everyone knows. It appears from the statement that only from 2005 to 2012, 7500 decare food soils were so-called redispatched each year – ‘redisposed’ is a neutral rewriting of ‘damaged’. Repeated initiatives, repeated plans and repeated measures for the conservation of food soils have thus not worked well enough. And why does that happen? Well, of course, it's because the destruction of food soil is a wild policy. In 2012, it was known to be redispatched 11 200 decaves of food soil. 29 pst. went on, 26 pst. went to the house and 16 pst. for nutrient areas. That's what soil protection is all about. It is about the fact that the current government has increased the expansion of motorways as one of its biggest investments, and it is also about the fact that Sanner, who has been transferred to its department from the Ministry of the Environment, is not present in the Chamber today. Food soil is the single resource that is most important for human civilization, and food soil is a non-renewable resource in a human time perspective. It is therefore quite obvious that if we continue to destroy our best food soil at some rate, we will get less and less and less food soil in Norway. So it's equally obvious that if we want to stop the loss of food soil in Norway, we have to stop the loss of food soil in Norway. That is why the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European While we are waiting for such an action to press ahead – because it must do so at some point – we support, as said, the Committee's position on a soil protection strategy. We agree with the representative Arnstad that there has been a positive development in the fact that there has been a more sober and planned treatment of food soils over the last few years. At the same time, we have limited faith that such a strategy will provide the necessary results for Norwegian food soils – because of the policies we see promoted through other policies, as well as the food policy that the government is currently pursuing and that has been mentioned earlier. We therefore support, in the meantime, the proposal of the Centre Party to suspend the proposed re-disposal of food soils until this strategy is available. At least it will be a logical consequence of the Committee's unanimous opinion that we need a more holistic way of disposing of food in Norway. Then we should not dispose of it in an unplanned way while waiting for that strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e807	Soil protection has really come on the political agenda after the new government joined, and that is probably already the fourth time we are discussing soil protection in this room. I think the outcome of this case, where the government is going to develop a soil protection strategy, is good. In the government's political platform, we say that we should take care of good food, but balance soil protection against the needs of the big society. We also say that we will work to maximise the self-sufficiency of food for emergency reasons. Therefore, it is important that we take care of as much cultivated soil as possible. Our main challenge is that there is strong centralisation in Norway. In Norway, there is a strong movement flow from District Norway to the large and medium-sized cities. It's where the best food soil lies, and this is where the pressure is greatest because an increasing population needs more housing, more buildings to house jobs and a more efficient infrastructure, better roads and railways. I think it is good that the nutrition committee has not recommended putting all the objections to the re-disposal of cultivated soil into question pending a soil protection strategy. I believe this mainly because municipalities and developers need rapid clarifications and predictability, not new releases. This government is working to reduce the processing time and to increase predictability for municipalities and builders. I will therefore continue to work to ensure that matters – including planning and dispensation matters – can be dealt with more quickly under our government. And I want a thorough, but also quick procedure when the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is going to give its opinion. I see advantages in creating an overall soil protection strategy, as recommended by the nutrition committee, and I will return to the Storting in an appropriate way. In this way, we can have a more holistic approach to soil protection policy, including with other departments, in order to assess which instruments we have available and which are most appropriate to use. This work will include, inter alia: could also be useful as input to the work on national expectations for regional and municipal planning under the Planning and Building Act to be drawn up in 2015. The Planning and Building Act is the most important tool we have today to manage the land and take care of the food soil. I believe that active use of the Law on Planning and Building provides opportunities for long-term solutions that take care of social development at the same time as we take care of the food soil. First of all, I think it is important to make the municipalities do a good job with their spatial plans. This government has great faith in local democracy and believes that local challenges are best known. Municipalities have a very central role in ensuring national and regional soil protection by having primary responsibility for land management under the Planning and Building Act. It is important that municipalities place strong emphasis on soil protection interests and look early for alternatives to re-disposal. Municipalities must also work to maximise the use of old and new construction sites. In addition, I believe it is important that the County follows up the emphasis on soil protection considerations in its guidance to the county council and municipalities. The government wants the number of objections to be reduced by early entry into the process by the opposition authorities and by addressing as many challenges as possible early in the process and locally. I've had a meeting with KS. Among other things, there was a meeting. local politicians from several parties, both from the red-green side and from the civil side. The feedback from them is very clear. It's not like local politicians want to build up food land and cultivated land. But in many places you've come to a point where there's not so much else to build on. Markal laws, cultural monuments, and natural diversity laws have put an end to building on land that could be an alternative to food and cultivated land. This is a cross of thought. Otherwise, KS pointed out that the development of regional spatial plans provides opportunities for better spatial planning. I'm going to invite the KS to make contributions to the soil protection strategy that the government is going to develop. One of the ideas that was aired at the meeting was to hold a local community recording conference in the context of the development of the soil protection strategy. I look forward to working with KS further. The representative Arnstad was inside Trondheim and the matter there. I would like briefly to say that Trondheim Municipality is governed by a majority constellation consisting of SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Environmental Party of the Greens and the Christian People's Party. [[The President clubs.]] They want housing expansion. They were redispatched to commercial activities in the past, at 400 jobs, so they probably had their hopes that the previous government would also meet them in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e830	Time's up. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e835	We have seen this six months that the Minister of Agriculture has contributed on a case-by-case basis to strengthening the degradation of food soils. This is quite unusual, since it is the Minister of Agriculture who should have been the main defender of Norwegian agriculture in terms of the production base for Norwegian food production, namely the food soil. Is it not the least that the Council of States is concerned that irreversible damage is being done here by actually reducing the production base and weakening the possibilities for future food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e841	Both the Right Party and the Advance Party were clearly aware before the elections that the change of government was made, the green light became both for the expansion in Trondheim and for the expansion of the Delijord, as IKEA wants. In both of these cases, as far as I know, the Workers' Party is locally involved in these decisions – they want this development. I also know that one of the reasons why the previous government failed to draw a conclusion in these cases was that there was internal disagreement in the previous government, so we paid attention to deciding these matters quickly and following up what we promised the voters. We're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e846	The Council of State has been opposed to making its own soil protection plan, and we in the Labour Party are pleased that a unanimous committee is now joining in the proposal to create its own overall strategy. The Committee points out that municipalities should be given some positive incentives to avoid the use of cultivated land. Now we hear that the Council of State has been in contact with the KS, but will the Council of State also engage in dialogue with the municipalities on the development of such incentives, and can the Council of State also say something about when the Stortinge can expect to be presented with this strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e851	The exact moment is a little too early to say, because we now have to make a progress plan at work. But in the next year, we'll be able to get back to Stortinget. Then I'll continue to cooperate with KS, and they'll also be able to make sense of incentives. Then I am very happy that the Workers' Party came up here with a proposal that is very constructive. Developing such a soil protection strategy, I think, is wise, and I'm also very happy that one got to a solution that makes one not stop all of the issues that have now been dealt with, and is about to be dealt with. So I thought that was constructive and good from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e858	Yes, it's true, Council of State, that soil protection has come on the political agenda after the government change, and it's probably due to the three specific issues where you've given the opportunity to redispatch. Opinion polls here show that there is a large majority who want a strict soil protection policy, and it is clear that that will trigger reactions. But I'm glad that the Council of State says she sees advantages in getting a comprehensive soil protection strategy, as the committee today asks. I am also pleased with the signals that the Council of State tells us about in the case of KS, that they see a great strength in regional spatial planning, and perhaps it is a more important instrument than community aggregation. My question to the Council of State is what she said about her wanting rapporteurs to focus more on soil protection. She writes to the committee that she wants to meet with the rapporteurs. How has that dialogue been since the Council of State sent letters to the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e865	I've had a meeting with members of the KS' main board, and we're going to find suitable venues where I get the opportunity to meet key actors in the municipal sector. Just what venues we're going to use, we're going to come back to, because we're going to continue that cooperation. Then I still believe that the combination of municipalities is one of the most important steps to achieve good spatial planning in the municipalities. I did not get so far in my post that I was able to communicate it, but of course I still believe so. So it's always like this in such cases that locally a very strong believes that a wants a development of its municipality. Locally, there is often a great deal of support for the development of new jobs, for the expansion of housing, etc., while perhaps in other municipalities, other parts of the country, there is less understanding of it. It is one of the most demanding things about such issues, that you locally know one of the needs, while national — as long as it does not apply to yourself — have a different approach to it. But I am glad that this is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e872	Let me first say that I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party Governments are still saying that they know what was going on in discussions in the previous government. For formally and constructively, the current Council of State does not know anything about what has happened internally in a previous government, so I think it might be a phrase that the Councils of State of the Advancement Party should not use, at least in the Grand Duchy. It's a little unfamiliar that the food minister is the first to apologize to the builders, especially when one sees it in the context of such a large majority of the population wanting a more stringent soil protection than today. There is also some background for a Joint Nutrition Committee and the Storting today to decide that we want a national strategy, that is, that many people want it very strongly. It's good if it comes next year. Can I in the meantime also ask the Council of State what she thinks about a proposal for a freight terminal south of Trondheim that, if it is placed on Søberg, will take 600 goals cultivated land? How does the Minister of Food view such further expansion and degradation of cultivated land near Trondheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e879	It is a matter that I have not heard anything about, nor have I received on my table, and in no way has I entered into, so it is completely impossible for me to stand and decide on such a matter. I hope the representative Arnstad understands that. In the case of disagreement in the previous government, representatives of the different parties, who had different opinions, were in contact with their local people and expressed what a wanted locally, through newspapers and through their members, so the disagreement that has been, has been communicated locally. So we picked that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e886	We now have an agricultural minister and a government that promised to build up food land, and did so, and that has been opposed to making a national plan, but that has now said yes to making a strategy of a national, non-renewable, vital resource. The Minister also constantly refers to local conditions where there have been different views from different parties. It's just an example that shows you need a stronger national governance in this area if you're going to be able to take care of the food soil, because there's a lot of different concerns that are pressing out locally. Then is the question of whether the Minister wants such a strategy to govern at national level as regards the volume of food land? And is it so that the Council of State is in favour of a system where you can replace built-in food soils with demands for the cultivation of new soils, for example. double?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e891	I have, of course, read the setting and seen that there have been many concrete and exciting proposals there, but I have not concluded on them because I want to have a thorough process and go through what is in the setting and in the possibilities we have to take action to strengthen soil protection. So it's a little too early for me to conclude now. What I can say is that I've never been against making a soil protection strategy. On the contrary, I have now said in this Chamber that I think it came together to put in place such a strategy, was very constructive and positive. Then, in conclusion, I just want to say that I believe that when you are going into a government, it is important to try to implement the choices you have given to the voters. That it pays off in the long term is probably an experience that many parties have done, so that's going to continue with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e900	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e903	We have significant knowledge of expected climate change. It is therefore necessary for the Storting to address the threat it poses to our ability to produce food and to our future food security. In its fifth report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has an intention towards politicians, and I quote: ‘After six years of work, the new report provides policy makers with the latest global warming research, which they can use for national planning and to work towards a new global climate agreement next year.’ Climate change is precarious, and we know that a large proportion of emissions in Norway originate from transport. SV therefore considers it a national responsibility to ensure that investment in new infrastructure takes place in order to preserve as much of the food grain area as possible and to choose sustainable transport solutions. Train and sea transport must be selected in front of road transport. Therefore, it is with great concern that I have registered that this government has decided that the new logistics node in Central Norway should be built with a shared solution south of Trondheim, either at Søberg in Melhus or Torgård in Trondheim, and combined with a port at Orkanger, which is located 3 km away. This narrowing of options excludes the best solution, which is an integrated solution with road, track and sea. For those who are known in the South Tree Layer, it is quite obvious that no matter which of these solutions is chosen, it will mean the raging of several hundred decaves of the best cultivated soil we have, the one that can produce grain. It is time for the Stortinget to ensure that a new freight terminal in central Norway is an integrated solution, and alternatives are available. There's something called multimodal solutions for the terminal. It connects trains, sea and car with local distribution. It is the key to competitiveness for the future, and it is environmentally friendly. Such a solution may, for example: occur with floating elements at sea, close to today's railway, and it can be built in many stages. It provides the necessary flexibility, and it may be a pilot project that shows the world that we are taking the environment and food production seriously. SV is concerned that today's government in its eagerness to show action and cut through, closes its eyes to the best solution. The government must therefore respond to their ambitions to feed its own population in the future and to be willing to invest in sustainable and environmentally sound transport solutions when the government is to choose a new logistics node in central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e922	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e936	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and six lines, with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e945	Ostetoll may have become symbol number. 1 in Norway and is something we're going to discuss many times because it has to do with customs protection. So the background for this case is that on 1 January 2013, the red-green government introduced a percentage duty instead of a krone toll on some oysters, beef and lamb. Then two proposals were made. None of these proposals are put forward in the Chamber, and it is because the answer from the Minister of Agriculture reveals that the government has complied with what was set out in the proposal. There is also a great deal of consensus in the Committee, so today's debate may be more concerned with the view of how agriculture and agriculture must adapt to the future. We all want predictability, and some also want reforms in agriculture, but it is a question of preparing agriculture for a more open world, or of continuing to pursue a strange agricultural policy that, in my opinion, paints agriculture further into a corner, where one can quickly experience quite sudden demands for adaptation. We see a lot going on around us. We have negotiations between the European Union and the United States on which we have no impact and which could put Norwegian agriculture on rather tough demands. So the challenge here is that we all want good Norwegian agriculture and productive Norwegian agriculture, and we also want profitability to evolve, but there are obvious differences in how we see it happening. That's why the Progress Party and the Right have a special comment that goes on that trade is absolutely fundamental to Norwegian welfare, and we believe that there is no alternative to the line that we've been leading in moving towards a more open world. We see that the EU reacted very strongly to the one-sidedness shown by Norway in the previous period when some of these measures were taken. I don't think Norway's going to miss that. 70-80 pst. of Norwegian foreign trade is with the EU, and we are served by a good and open dialogue with the EU where we find agreed solutions. Then there is the second overall challenge that I had to face: how much use should be made of the opportunities offered by the WTO Agreement and other trade agreements to maximise protection for Norwegian agriculture, or whether to start preparing it for future challenges. We know that there will be Article 19 negotiations with the EU for the autumn and, as I said, we are also facing challenges in relation to the TTIP negotiations, i.e. the EU-US free trade agreements. The right view is very clear: one creates the best predictability for Norwegian agriculture by also preparing agriculture for the challenges that may come, and does not hide them and paint the industry further into a corner. It's the main currents. However, the examination of this document was, as I said, relatively simple, as both the Minister of Agriculture and the entire Committee support the government's attitude towards the customs changes that came. It is also discussed with organisations abroad with a background. And as everyone knows, the decision of the Grand Prix is valid until a new decision has been made, and it has not yet been made. The document is thus proposed to be annexed to the minutes. Nor, according to what I have registered, are any suggestions for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e967	Gunnar Gundersen says in his post that predictability is important. The main comment, agreed by all members of the Committee, states: ‘The Committee points out that it is proposed that the Stortinget should ask the Government to follow up the Customs Decision of the Stortinget in the current state budget, including the customs conversion of certain trade lines of cheese, beef and lamb. [[...]] Then comes the Progress Party and the Right with its own comment, where it is written that the goal of the government is ‘to reverse the conversion to percentage customs’. In the next round, the Right Party and the Advance Party, together with the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, come again and report that «foreseeability» is important. What kind of predictability lies in it, from what the Right of Stortinget reports, about how we're going to deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e981	That's what I tried to deepen. There is no doubt that we have signaled a desire to reverse the ostetoll. At the same time, we know that there is no majority in the Great Britain for that policy, and that has been taken over by the government. That's also why I mentioned that there will be Article 19 negotiations for the autumn, and then there will be a review of the whole issue. Then we'll see what those negotiations lead to. I'm not going to have a lot of meaning about that. They probably start up in September, and that is the government's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e986	This whole case actually bears the impression that the Right Party and the Advance Party have made a bill without a host – they have in a way traveled and said things, and expressed things, without having to have cover for it politically. The question then arises, when Gundersen also repeats what is the Right-wing objective of agricultural policy – and in particular the objective of the Progress Party with agricultural policy – how they intend to contribute to the majority they want, how to push it through. The representative, Mr Gundersen, said in the previous reply that Article 19 negotiations would take place in the autumn. Is it in the negotiations they are going to force the Left and Christian People's Party to bow to the views of the Right and the Progressive Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e995	I don't think we can force any other parties to do anything. I think that should be a starting point. Then we'll see what the negotiations bring. But I believe it is possible to have a good debate about what kind of framework conditions we need for agriculture in the future. We've had eight years of red-green rule. How many grassy football courses are there that have been closed every year? That's 5,000 something, I think. At least 1000 use per year has been discontinued. We just discussed soil protection. I know that we have an agriculture that suffers from a lack of digging and all sorts of problems, i.e. a lack of faith in the future. I think that the Stortinget will wake up to that challenge and create the framework conditions for a future Norwegian agriculture, which means that we will also get the industry on the offensive to invest, in meeting the future. There's the deep distinction through the Storting in what we see as best for it, but I still believe that we're going to get a good majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1004	There is reason to ask the representative of the government party Right what he thinks about going to a debate where one has so clearly said that one would like to lose one thing – unless this is a strategy from the majority to lose the matter during the negotiations, and come to the Left and Christian People's Party with a fait accompli, which says that this is what we got. ‘Then we’ll see what the negotiations bring,’ says the representative Gundersen – and then ‘we’ll see’. It is then interesting to know what the Right Party government will put on the table in those negotiations, when there is no majority in the UK for that government. But anyway, the government says they'll do it. Is it that they are going to negotiate at the position of the majority in the Storting, or at the position of the minority government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1011	The negotiations are the responsibility of the government. I don't want any reasoning about the strategy you're going to have, but I'm responding to Andersen's representative's use of words: 'tape a case'. I was just trying to explain that I think the Norwegian community is going to realize that trade is the very basis of our welfare level. I mean – and I mean it honestly and deeply – that it is best to pursue a policy of preparing agriculture for a more open world. I don't think we're going to have another choice. But from there to say which negotiating line the government is putting on, I am not going to have any opinion about. I think the signals are very well received by the government that there is no majority for the original position, and that was to reverse the ostetoll. Then we'll see what the harvest brings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1016	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1020	The new European Minister, after just a few weeks in the chair, traveled to Brussels and announced that Norway would reverse the ostetoll. Even more perceptive was the fact that the government gradually found that the Christian People's Party and the Left did not support this. This is one of two issues we are dealing with today, which shows the same thing: the government is warning about changes in agricultural policy without securing support from the Stortinge. Now, it may not be as perceptive as we have heard, that the Right Party and the Advance Party will reduce the import protection for agriculture, for this has been announced for many years. Nor was there any need for warnings from that edge when we made changes to the cheese duty in the 2013 state budget. What we did was we adjusted the Kronotoll to the percentage of customs duties on certain types of cheese and meat in order to ensure the continued effective protection of customs duties on these products. Fish exports would be hit hard, said the Advance Party and the Right. They also announced that imports of cheese would be hit, and that people would have less diversity in the cheese counter. Now it's well over a year since these changes were made, and we live well with today. Fish exports to the EU were record high last year. The fact that a country has both offensive and defensive trade interests is not as perceptive as the government parties would have us believe. In the EU, too, there is a difference between fisheries policy and agricultural policy. Believe it or not, EU imports have also increased by percentage duty. Figures from AgriAnalyse show that all three import categories for cheese — quota imports, imports at regular and foreign production — have increased from 2012 to 2013. While EU cheese imports to Norway in 2012 were 11,393 tonnes, last year it increased to 11,643 tonnes. While Norway has reduced exports and increased imports of cheese in recent years, developments have been reversed in the EU because the EU has strengthened customs protection. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned that we must also be responsible for Norwegian interests in the future. It has to be worked to ensure market access for Norwegian seafood, while at the same time working to protect our agriculture. A total Norwegian industry – the so-called Matallian – has warned the government against making unilateral Norwegian concessions to customs protection. This alliance is based on both NHO and LO, as well as on key actors such as Orkla, Nortura and TINE. I hope that makes a certain impression on the government. It is good that the government has not yet made any changes to the ostetoll and has gone back to the dollar, because there is no doubt that solid customs protection is essential for both agriculture and the food industry in this country. In the vote, the Right Party and the Advance Party are probably ambiguous, but given that the cooperation parties in a joint note state that Norway will, through negotiations with the EU, ‘ensure safe and predictable conditions and a positive income development for Norwegian agriculture in the future’, I hope that there is reason to be optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1039	A few months ago, the Stortinget adopted a number of ambitious objectives for Norwegian agricultural policy in the next few years. The many objectives adopted include: increased food production, increased self-sufficiency, increased profitability in Norwegian agriculture, and predictable agricultural policies that provide a stable framework for industry. This is known from our committee position. All of this is leading the policy that we are going to push forward, leading both government and big business. Increased food production and self-sufficiency require an active agricultural policy and the exploitation of all the resources available to us in Norway. Increased profitability requires both good agricultural settlement, better investment solutions and better tax regimes. A predictable agricultural policy with stable framework conditions also requires that the government does not make any unilaterally negative changes to profitability – neither for our agriculture nor for our food industry. We have a great and complex country with a diverse nature, we have it flat, and we have it steep. We have a lot of resources both in the fields and especially in the fields, and we have farmers who want to use these resources to produce food. Yesterday I was in Troms and met farmers and food industries who use and want to use their country's advantages. In Troms, the paralysis isn't going on yet, it's even a good piece ahead. They have a shorter season than we have, but once the lambs and sheep get out of the field, the midnight sun makes them sundown, they might be a little bit rounder and a little bit fatter than the sheep and lambs that have been here south. Nature compensates for a shorter season, and it gives the perfect results. We have high quality, we get great goods, we get proud farmers – and we get as much as a proud food industry that makes quality products out of this. Our food industry is capable, it's innovative, and it's developing. It lives in an international competition market. Therefore, it is important for both the food industry and farmers that there is predictability in what we are discussing today: today's ostetoll. We are pleased with the wording that we have with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in today's position, where we state that it is ‘Determining that Norway, through negotiations with the EU, is able to ensure safe and predictable conditions and a positive income development for Norwegian agriculture in the future’. This presupposes the active European policy of the government, where it is quite clear that Norwegian interests are at the top, and where this also leads the possible Article 19 negotiations – which have been discussed earlier in a line change with the representative of Gundersen. This may also lead to positions that Norway may have to assume as a result of the EU-US TTIP negotiations, which could have an impact both on our agriculture and on the Norwegian food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1061	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1064	I might want a little bit of precision. The representative mentioned at the end something that was interesting with TTIP. First, I have to comment on what was mentioned that customs protection is greedily important for the food industry and agriculture. For the Right, it is very important to have a well-functioning customs protection, not only for the food industry and agriculture, but also for other industries. We have received a signal both from those who operate and operate Norwegian vessels in Australia, and also from our offshore industry there, about the disadvantage of the new tariff rate we introduced in January 2013. Will the Christian People's Party assess the soundness of industrial policy, not just against the food and beverage industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1073	Thank you for the question. Yes, it is also one of the issues that I have raised with European Minister Helgesen that we must have a comprehensive review – both positive and negative – before any changes occur. There are points of view that I have signed with Trellevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1078	The representative, Heimdal, says she is satisfied with the comments in the setting. At the same time, the letter from the Council of State to the Committee refers to a meeting with the European Union in which it was briefed ‘on the facts in the meeting with the Commissioner of the European Union’. She goes on: ‘In that meeting I also briefed on the Government’s positions and objectives. The Government's objective is to reverse the conversion to a percentage duty.» It is no secret that this government has a desire to suffer a loss in this matter. Is it the case that the Christian People's Party has now assured itself that the majority of the Grand Duchy is at the root of the negotiations to be held, namely that the ostetoll should remain, or is it such that the overall assessment to which the representative now refers gives room to the government for the view that the government actually has and that they have warned the European Union about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1088	First of all, it is the government that negotiates – as the representative Gundersen was also involved. I also believe the representative Andersen sees that we are not in favour of the comment that it is a desire to reverse, which is a purely party and right-wing remark. As regards predictability and profitability, we have said that attention should be paid to any changes that may or may need to be made. We don't know about that, because it's up to the government. That is what we have said about the cooperation agreement we have concluded with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1095	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1098	Some of the background to this case is that it is not wise to travel to Brussels and talk down Norwegian interests, it is unwise to travel to Brussels and say things for which no back cover is available in the Stortinget, and it is not wise to try to turn matters which are, in fact, WTO issues into EU issues by conservative EU parliamentarians. There is no doubt that the change that was made in the case of ostetoll was a change that was completely legitimate after the WTO avalanche, which has also been made by other WTO countries – i.e. the exchange between the krona and the percentage duty. I think that what is said, and also said by the Council of State, is that the rates of duty that have now been changed will be fixed within the current regime unless the Stortinge makes changes, also provides a basis that the Centre does not choose to promote its own proposals today. We believe that when this is decided, one would also have been able to clarify these kinds of questions in Stortinget before making any changes. In other words, the policy is currently firm. It has been said that if you come to the Storting and want to make changes, there is hope that the Left and the Christian People's Party will be equally firm on this with regard to future possible proposals that they have made in this position and that they have also done in the budget position of the nutrition committee last autumn. I fully agree with the representative of the Christian People's Party when she says that the issue of good customs protection for basic foods is crucial in order to increase food production in Norway, and also in order to increase the degree of maritime supply of our basic foods. We have an open trade in Norway in many ways, including in food. We import a large proportion of what we eat, but at the same time we aim to increase food production and the degree of maritime supply. It is also the case that topography and climate in Norway do not make it possible to produce food on a level playing field with many of the countries that are our strongest competitors. We need agricultural transfers, but also strong import protection. It is not least important for the main farmers, who should be given the opportunity to obtain the best possible price for their products and not be made too dependent on budget support. It is also crucial for the many thousands of jobs available in the food industry. Only in the dairy industry there are well over 5 000 jobs. The interesting thing about this matter is as far as what is going to happen in the future. We may have received some warnings about it today through the intervention of the representative, Mr Gundersen, addressing the issue of future Article 19 negotiations as an opportunity to perhaps bring about changes for which the government has not yet received a majority in the Grand Duchy. It's going to be interesting to see. It should also be interesting to see whether the government in the agricultural settlement will put in this kind of fines or suggestions to try to bind the Left and Christian People's Party in retrospect, and it will be interesting to see whether action will be taken to increase the quotas so much that import protection is actually eroded. That's also something we're commenting on in the notes. There will be something that will quite simply affect the intention behind the whole issue of the cheese duty, namely to be able to have a solid import protection. I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee – the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – agree on some basic things, and two of them are that long-term farming is needed, and predictability is needed. The three things I have now mentioned about possible future scenarios in the next six months or the year must be measured against the common ambition of long-termity and predictability. It is then important that we do not now try to disperse import protection in ways other than through the ostetoll, for which we see that we do not have a majority in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1119	The left wants both freer and fairer trade and predictable and good framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture. Customs duties must be reduced over time, but at the same time it is essential to provide agriculture and the food industry with a long-term perspective in order to ensure profitability. The principle view of the Left is that the rate of duty should be reduced over time and that Norway should follow up the WTO decision to wind up unilateral and national export subsidies. However, a reduction in Norwegian customs duties should result from multilateral trade agreements which take into account both the need for increased free trade and the need for foreseeable framework conditions for agriculture and the food industry. It's strong for the Left. The Cooperation Agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left states that emphasis should be placed on predictability and reforms that can increase the profitability of Norwegian agriculture. Cooperation parties also want to pursue a more active policy to safeguard Norway’s interests vis-à-vis the EU. For the Left, it is essential that these principles form the basis for the conclusion of agreements with the EU which have an impact on Norwegian agriculture and that Norway, through negotiations with the EU, is able to ensure safe and predictable conditions and a positive income development for Norwegian agriculture in the future. The left would stress that predictability is particularly important for a long-term industry such as agriculture. Investments and operations are made confident that conversions will not be reversed without further delay. Acute changes could have adverse consequences for business operators. There is also a need to strengthen both the framework conditions and the income opportunities for Norwegian farmers and the Norwegian food industry, and changes in agricultural policy require a thorough review and dialogue with stakeholders. The left is pleased with the conclusion reached in the letter of 27 January 2014 from Minister of Agriculture and Food Sylvi Listhaug, where it emerged that the customs duties on cheese and meat, as amended with effect from 1 January 2013, will continue to apply from 1 January 2014 and that the customs duties in force will remain within the current regime, unless the Storting makes changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1132	SV supports the proposal that is on the table today. But I think we need to take this discussion from the wide perspective, where the government also agrees that we should increase Norwegian food production. If that is the starting point, the instruments must be adapted to it and not some political ideology that says that food is believed to be just like any commodity, with which to have the most openness and trade. Because it does not work like this in a country like Norway, where the basis for food production has to be related to climate and topography and entirely natural assumptions that make it impossible for Norwegian agriculture to function in a free trade perspective. Norwegian agriculture must have customs protection. Norwegian agriculture needs cooperation and cooperation, and Norwegian agriculture also needs budget support based on a realistic view of how it is in practice. Then the representative Gundersen says you have to deal with the world. Yes, where was the increase in Norwegian food production in this? Is there something that will happen in that case on imported power feed? Is it Norwegian food production? It's not being erased. In the election campaign there were several delegations from among others. Right in Brussels and asked to be whipped in this area. After the election, with the new government, the European Minister has also been in Brussels and has given a vision where he wanted to reverse this, and in retrospect he has of course had to go back to the Storting, where there was no majority in favour of this proposal. But when I read the notes here and the letters from the government, and not least when I hear the debate here in Stortinget, I'm very uncertain about how this is going to go. Here, there is a heavy responsibility on the Christian People's Party and the Left, because they are also quite unclear today – I think – whether they actually stand by this with customs protection. I have negotiated quite a lot in my time, including as an employer, and it is well that if you initially give very clear signals about what things you might be thinking of losing, and what matters it is most important for you to win, it is not so difficult for the counterparty to catch it. To put it that way: one must be quite deaf and blind if one has not now in the EU system caught up in what this government wants, and they even write it again now, in a letter to the Committee, that they have been in the EU and informed that they have a goal of reversing it. How, then, will these negotiations succeed, unless the Left and the Christian People's Party are now more clear that they will not accept this and that negotiations will take place on the premise that the majority of the Grand Duchy is on the ground, namely that the ostetoll is now to be fixed? The left was up here and said that they actually want to change the customs rates. It's going to happen a little bit over time, but what is it? There shall be no sudden change – what is it? When the government is clearly backed up to enable them to travel and lose this matter, which is so important for Norwegian agriculture, especially if combined with statements such as increased profitability in agriculture, it becomes a little difficult to understand how agricultural policy should look that way. I come from one of the most important agricultural groups, and a county that also has a large food industry, namely Hedmark. It's thousands of jobs, and it's a renewable industry, that produces the most important product in the world, food, because that's what we depend on. So these are inalienable jobs, both in primary agriculture and in the food industry. It is not forward-looking to pursue a policy that reduces both the number of farmers and the number of food industries. And it has given industry clear signals that it will be if you rock at the construction plant that stands there, and reduce some of the tools that the former government needed to put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1153	Here I almost want to use a small saying that 'empty barrels fall the most'. Because it is possible to go so high on the track after eight years of government, and we, documentedly, last year had the lowest level of self-sufficiency in many decades, I think it is remarkable. I want to turn around the question that Karin Andersen came up with in his post: Where was the increased food production on the line we were? There's a very need to start seeing things in a new light and – as I was in my post – create framework conditions that make you invest and prepare an agriculture for the future, and that's what we want. But where was the increase in Norwegian food production in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1160	I'm recording that the representative from the Right thinks it's funny to keep up with such ruling techniques, as well as pretending to be someone who has less respect for the views of others than what the representative from the Right has. Then I can say that the points of view that SV has are unambiguously similar to those that the industry has – they are the same as the Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team says, as the Farmers' Team says, and as the food industry says. At that time, stronger instruments are needed than those that have been used recently, and one of the new, strong instruments chosen to be used was precisely this customs duty to protect Norwegian production. So more instruments are needed and not fewer. Fewer instruments will further escalate negative developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1165	I want to distance myself from the fact that this is rule. These are statistics, and they have been confirmed, there have been press reports that last year the Norwegian self-sufficiency rate was the lowest in many decades, so it has nothing to do with my opinion. In fact, that's how the industry perceives it, and then you shouldn't be met with words like 'rule technique'. I have full respect for SV's views, but I've seen eight years' results, and I'm just asking to know, where did the increased Norwegian food production turn out? That's what I asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1170	Then I might be able to replicate with the same use of words that Gundersen chooses to use, namely, that 'empty barrels fall the most'. I think that Gundersen's articles in this case also bear the mark of it. For a unique industry, the positions that SV has and clearly disagree with the agricultural policy that the Progress Party stands for and that the Right stands for, and I rely more on the industry than on the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1175	Let it be clear that the Left is stuck at today's customs rates and that it is the ones that will apply. In my post I put very much emphasis on predictability and expressed very clearly that this is what the industry must now have, and that is what the industry deserves, so I do not understand the conclusions that come from the representative Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1182	This was an answer I was very happy to hear, for now the message was clear from the Left, and the clear message must be because you know that we have a government that does not want this policy, which, on the contrary, wants to reverse the ostetoll. It was the representative's posts, which gave clear signals that they wanted to reduce this in the future, which made me worried, but the representative's response is now clarifying and good, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1189	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1192	In the proposal of the representatives of Navarsete, Arnstad, Slagsvold Vedum and Pollestad, dated 27 November 2013, the Government is asked to follow up the Government's customs decision on the current state budget, including the conversion to percentage duty on certain lines of cheese, beef and lamb as of 1 January 2013. Furthermore, the representatives proposed that the government should use this as a basis for further dialogue with international organisations. The Government has complied with this proposal for a representative. The customs duties on cheese, beef and lamb have continued for 2014 and these duties will remain in place until the adoption of a different decision by the Stortinget. As I referred to in my letter dated 27 January, the current customs regime has also been the basis for my contacts with international organisations, among others. my meeting with the EU Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, Dacian Ciolos, on 18 January this year. I would like to stress that the government's objective of reversing the conversion to the percentage duty is fixed. The conversion, as we remember, led to very strong reactions, both nationally and internationally, and created demanding relationships with our second most important trading partner, the EU. The Commission and the EU Member States are constantly reminding us of the matter, with clear expectation that the conversion will be reversed. We cannot ignore the burden imposed on the case by the relationship between Norway and the EU. As indicated by the government platform, the government will work for a freer trade. Trade is fundamental to economic growth. At the same time, the Government recognises that an import protection is important for the profitability of Norwegian agriculture. However, the protection of imports cannot only be dimensioned in order to maximise Norwegian production and to achieve a high price level. Other important considerations also need to be given weight. For consumers – who have not talked about this and who were almost forgotten by the previous government – increased trade in agricultural products could provide a better range of products and lower food prices. The government will balance these different interests in a better and more consumer-friendly way than before. In international negotiations on increased trade in agricultural products, increased diversity of goods for Norwegian consumers will be given weight. The international framework conditions for agriculture are not static. In the WTO, the successful ministerial meeting in Bali has created expectations of progress. The EU and the United States are currently negotiating a free trade agreement, and here at home we start the autumn negotiations with the EU on extended trade in agricultural products, the so-called Article 19 negotiations. Trade cooperation between countries is constantly developing — in agriculture as in other sectors. This must be the responsibility of agriculture and the food industry. I have noticed that the entire committee in the vote underlines the need for predictability of a long-term industry such as agriculture. I totally agree. This is also in line with the cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. The reform of the agricultural policy to which the government provides will take place gradually. This also applies to changes in import protection. The government will therefore, in the future, focus on close contact with parties on the Storting in order to ensure understanding and support for a forward-looking and responsible agricultural and trade policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1213	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1216	As we heard, the government has already been in Brussels and announced that they are going to do something about the ostetoll. Today they show here in the Storting that they're of a different opinion, and then for the government, there'll be some kind of canoeing going to Brussels to tell you that this didn't work out. So my questions to the Council of State are: Has the government given feedback to the EU? And: has the government learned through this case that it would be reasonable to settle such and similar matters with the Storting first?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1224	As I had in the past, I have had a meeting with Dacian Ciolos, Commissioner for Agriculture in the European Union, where I clearly gave him feedback that this government has the ambition to reverse the cheese duty, but that there is no majority in the Grand Duchy for such a conversion. It's of course communicated very clearly. What is most worrying about this matter is that it has very clearly damaged the relationship with the European Union. The EU is our main trading partner, and it is a continent and a Union to which we export goods for nearly 500 billion. kr. That is why it is not without importance that we have a good relationship with the European Union, and we are going to stress that we should also have further cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1231	The Council of State says that the objective of reversing the ostetoll is firm and that it has damaged Norway’s relationship with the EU. But the matter today is precisely that the government does not have a majority for it in the Storting, and it has also the Council of State and the government bowed to it. It is also taken into account in the currently processed adjustment. So you have to ask yourself, what's going to happen in the future? Can we expect the Right Party and the Advance Party to propose things in the agricultural settlement that they will try to bring with them the Left Party and the Christian People's Party? Can we expect them to increase the quotas in such a way that it erodes import protection? Can we expect this to be a theme they will try to re-arrange in connection with the Article 19 negotiations for the autumn? Is it possible for the Council of State to demand that this is a matter of agricultural policy and that the quotas will not be increased in such a way as to erode import protection and that it will not be the subject of Article 19 negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1240	There is no doubt that this has damaged the relationship with the European Union if we start with it. As far as the future is concerned, I believe that it would not be wise for me to comment on what is going on in the agricultural business, which is to be presented as an offer to the trade unions at the beginning of May. I'm asking for an understanding from Stortinget that I can't start going into this right now. The same applies in so far as the Article 19 negotiations are also concerned. The reason why I cannot stand here and present what we think in the context of the Article 19 negotiations is firstly that we have not concluded on the matter, and secondly it is not natural for Norway to show its positions through the debate here in the Chamber. What I can at least assure you is that I will of course have contact with parties at Stortinget before we enter into those negotiations, with a view to clarifying what changes that might be the basis for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1251	When the Council of State says that she needs to understand that she cannot address the issue of Article 19 negotiations, can the Council of State contribute to abolishing what the representative Gundersen said earlier in the debate, namely that it could become a subject of Article 19 negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1256	It is far too early to conclude with what will become a theme in the Article 19 negotiations, for the government has not yet begun to discuss it. The only thing I can confirm that becoming a topic in the Article 19 negotiations is a clearing up of the foreign processing system, where a system has been set up that allows this ham to travel many times across Europe – which is very unreasonable. I will at least promise to become part of these negotiations. But beyond that, it's too early to stand here in the hall now and conclude. I ask you to understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1263	At least we now have a government council that is quite good at double communication, both in letters to the Stortinget and in reply here, because there she says she can't show the cards, but you've shown the cards loud and clear in this case in Brussels and everywhere. They say they've been to Brussels and told us that you have an ambition to reduce customs duties. I've never listened to my husband when you consider that it's not at all a majority in the Stortinge for that position. The other representatives of the government parties have today referred to the Council of State in relation to these negotiations, and it must be possible to clarify whether it is the position ‘no change in customs protection’ or the position ‘weaking of customs protection’ which is the government’s position in the negotiations in the coming years, or not. It is important for the Storting to know that, so we know that the majority position in the Storing is being followed up by the government in negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1272	What is achieved in the Article 19 negotiations will be presented to the Stortinget, so in any case you will have your say. But of course this government will have contact with parties on Stortinget in advance to clarify how you view it. What I have said clearly today, and which I stand by, is that consumers should be given greater emphasis. It is important for this government to have a richer range of goods in stores and to be able to provide greater diversity. When assigned a separate capability for double communication, it may be tempting to ask if it is a rule technique used by the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1281	No, it's an observation that two different things are said in this case and in other cases, namely that you have a majority in the United Kingdom that is opposed to changing customs rates now, and then you say that the government has a goal of doing the same thing, and you're going to keep working for it. There are two different things, and this is serious. It is a reality, because the government is now in a position where they can destroy this through negotiations before it comes to the Storting, and it will be very difficult for the Storing to reverse it. I also hear now what lies closest to the heart of the Council of State, and there is increased free trade. It is believed that increased free trade should be an advantage, but it is a disadvantage if we are to produce more food in Norway, and that is what both the Council of State and the Government have said we should do. The two things don't go together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1288	There is nothing in this world that has created more prosperity than free trade between the countries of the world. In the agricultural sector, there is little free trade, but there will also be a development that we need to adapt to. It is therefore important for Norwegian agriculture, too, that we are in the long term able to transform ourselves into more profitable and competitive vis-à-vis other countries. The customs walls will in any case be important, and it is of course important for this government to have customs walls that allow us to have Norwegian food production – and enough Norwegian food production. Once you have set a goal, for example: on the reversal of the ostetoll, I believe that it is very wise of a government actually to stand firm on it. It's not always that you reach your goals – it probably knows Karin Andersen and SV well after eight years in government – but you have to stand firm and work as hard as you can to achieve them, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1297	When you don't reach your goals because you're part of a minority, I wonder how the Council of State will deal with the majority in future negotiations with regard to Article 19, the agricultural settlement, etc. Do you want to go into the negotiations and think that you need to have coverage for this, or start negotiating with a minority position? It's important to clarify it. An editor in terms of what was said from the Right and Advance Party instead of that there has been no increase in food production lately: yes, it has been. It's been 2.5 pst. increase in food production. There's actually been an increase there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1304	I guess the challenge is that we produce more than we need of some things, like eggs and pigs, while we produce too little of other things we need, such as. beef, lamb and sheep. In a regulated market, it is a challenge to manage the production that people will actually eat. It's something that this government is going to work on. As regards the agricultural negotiations and the Article 19 negotiations, we are a minority government, and therefore it is always important for us to talk to other parties on the Stortinget, have good dialogue and find out what the other parties are engaged in. At the end of the day, there will be an assessment of how to set up the race in these cases. We will come back to that at the beginning of May, and we will come back to these negotiations until the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1312	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1315	Norway is a different country. We have a demanding geography, and we have worse growth conditions than many other countries in Europe. At the same time, Norway, like other countries, has both a right and an obligation to feed its own population. More recent attention has also been paid to food as part of the country’s preparedness. When the previous government passed on from a dollar to a percentage, the current government parties used very big words about what the consequences would be. The variety was to disappear and the prices were to shoot in the weather. The fact is that the conversion was in line with our international obligations, and it is difficult to see that Norwegian consumers have been hit in any way. What is undisputed, on the other hand, is the importance of customs protection in order to ensure profitability in the agricultural industry and in order to maintain jobs in the food industry. It is worth stressing that it is particularly important for large farms that customs protection is important. It's a mystery to me where the Minister of Agriculture was when the Council of State Helgesen, without coverage in the Stortinget, traveled to Brussels to throw the cards in the cheesellash. It was embarrassing for Stortinget, and it must have been an embarrassing exercise towards the EU. I'll give the Minister of Agriculture right in one thing. I think this case has damaged Norway's relationship with the EU, not because of the content of the case – that we have been dealing with the current international legislation – but because the government has first travelled to Brussels and said that we are throwing the cards, then going to Brussels to say that we were not allowed by our own parliament to throw the cards. It was once again to give a signal that you have an ambition to make an impact on a policy where you are in a minority in Parliament. Norway’s relationship with the EU may be damaged when a small country operates with the type of winging in such an important case. When the government and the Minister of Agriculture fail Norwegian food production, it is all the more gratifying that the Stortinge assumes responsibility and states that the current customs protection regime is firm unless the Stortinge makes changes. Norwegian food production is too important to be exposed to a blue-blue experiment. I note that the rapporteur in his speech today mentions this as a matter of symbolism. For the Central Party, customs protection is not a symbol. These are hard facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1332	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox We are now dealing with cases No. a total of 7-10. The cases concern the legislative decisions 44–47 for 2013–2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1381	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1388	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1412	During the debate, Audun Lysbakken has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, the Grand Duchy is requested to set up a special committee to appoint, and mandate, the Grand Duchy, a commission to examine and assess the overall monitoring to which Norwegian citizens are subject.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1439	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1463	The President noted that, in the Committee's proposal for a decision, the proposal that the document be annexed to the minutes by way of incurrency was omitted. The President wants to see you. Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure will include it in the voting, and a correcting position will be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1509	Case No. 7–10 is the second time legal proceedings are under way. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-08.ana.ud1119e1719	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
