ParlaMint-NO_2014-09-30.ana.ud629e18	Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative, Inbjørg Amanda Godskesen, Tuesday 30 September, to take part in the 2014 session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, Part Four, in Strasbourg by the Group of the Christian People's Party on the Permit of the Representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Tuesday 30 September, to take part in the 69th General Assembly of the United Nations in New York On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the East-Agder counties: Lene LangemyrFor More and Romesdal counties: Steinar Reiten
ParlaMint-NO_2014-09-30.ana.ud629e52	Lene Langemyr and Steinar Reiten are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-09-30.ana.ud629e353	Then we came to the end of the 158th big thing, which extends until September 30th. That is why we must sign the Minutes today. The 158th aggregate is the first session of the current parliamentary term. A high number of the representatives took a seat in Stortinget last year for the first time and will now take on the 159th big one tomorrow. Especially this year has been, and is going to be, eventful. The anniversary of the Constitution, the focus on human rights and linguistic change to the Constitution represent milestones in the current session. The figures tell of great activity throughout the year — with question-time questions, interviews, written questions and Document 8. During this session, the size has held 89 meetings. Seven meetings were concluded between 7 p.m. 16 and 18. In addition, 17 evening meetings were held, i.e. meetings that last beyond 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox Four meetings have gone beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 22, while one of these has been beyond 2:00 p.m. 24th@item: inlistbox The government has promoted 165 cases for the Storting, divided into 76 deposit proposals, 60 billing proposals and 2 combined propositions and 27 messages. The representatives of Storting have promoted 104 proposals for representatives. The size has dealt with 311 Committee positions. The government has contributed further to the debates in the United Kingdom with 10 presentations. The number of questions to the ordinary questionnaire has been 260, while there have been 135 main questions in the oral questionnaire. The government also answered 78 interviews and received 1,265 questions in writing at the time. The final number at the end of the session was 1,274. Written questions to be answered. The size took 79 request decisions in the current session. What's worth noting is that if we look at the statistics, we see that this number increases with minority governments and falls sharply in periods of majority government. The majority have dealt with 12 constitutions, several of which are historical. We have adopted a linguistic renewal of the Constitution and a version of the Constitution in neo-Norwegian. The basic law thus exists in the two equally targeted forms. This is how the Stortinget has provided a greater awareness of the content of the Constitution in the year of the anniversary. We have also made significant constitutional decisions to strengthen the protection of fundamental human rights. Many have called it the most important revision of the Constitution since 1814. Many would say that the changes strengthen the Constitution both as a symbol and as a political document. It is positive that, prior to the treatment in Stortinget, we had a rich constitutional debate on the Constitution. The Constitution has rarely been the subject of public debate in Norway. In the anniversary year, we reached a debate that focused on the value base of Norwegian society and on the forms and content of the People's Government. And the popular uprising, as everyone here knows, has been absolutely amazing. Norway entered the miracle year 1814 as part of Denmark, subject to a royal monarchy. We went out of 1814 in an almost equivalent union with Sweden – with parliament and with a completely new political system. The Constitution laid a foundation for the development of democracy and the well-being of our country. Now the anniversary of the Constitution goes to the end, a few important events remain. We are going to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Stortinget's first meeting on 7 October, and we are going to mark 200 years for the November Constitution. But as much as celebrating the past, the anniversary should be an investment for the future. Then it only remains for the president to thank everyone who has been involved in Storting's business this year that passed, for a great effort everyone can be proud of. Not least, the President will thank all the new representatives for a great deal of activity in the service of the People's Government. With this I declare the 158th big thing for finally finished. We can, with good conscience, sign the Minutes that are on the table down here.
