ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e26	They called the alternates, for West Agder County Kjell Ivar Larsen and for Rogaland County Øystein Langholm Hansen, have taken their seats. The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e37	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Olaug V. Bollestad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a change to the penal code on minimum time, leave and detention for the sentenced.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e42	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e45	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Heidi Greni, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself, I hereby propose measures to comply with the agreement on predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e50	The representative, Johnny Ingebrichtsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e53	I have the long-awaited pleasure of presenting representatives from Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Karin Andersen and myself to secure the recruitment of fisheries by ensuring school quotas that provide full training for future fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e58	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e70	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Tine Sundtoft, Bent Höie and Anders Anundsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e77	I have previously asked the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, but also the Prime Minister himself, what it means for the real division of labour that the new State Secretary for Emergency Response at SMK has received the same job description as the Minister of Justice in a number of areas. I have not received clear answers. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice is here now, and I am going to make it easier for the Minister of Justice to give a clear answer, because his Secretary of State said on the NRK on Friday that the item was a'solid support' for the Ministry of Justice in recent crises. I'm counting on him, for example. showed to the fire in Lærdal. My question then is simply: what time was the element involved in managing the fire in Lærdal, and what concrete function did the element have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e82	I think the representative Tajik has misunderstood what the reinforcement of the Prime Minister's office is going to do. We run our business in the same way that the previous government steered its operations, following the resolution of 15 June 2012, so the structures are therefore quite clear. It is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that is the permanent Ministry of Management in all national events, unless otherwise specifically decided. There's nothing that's rocked it, neither the quote that the representative Tajik is now using, nor any other kind of situation. The Prime Minister’s office is kept constantly informed by the Ministry of Justice and Defence about this type of incident.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e87	This is a little ‘good day, man – axe shaft’, because that’s not what I asked for. My question was: what time was the element at the Prime Minister's office involved in the fire in Lærdal, and what concrete function did the element have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e92	I just have to refer to my previous answer – I think the representative Tajik has misunderstood what this so-called element of the Prime Minister's office should do. It is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that is the Ministry of leadership in the event of major incidents and national crises, to which the fires the representative referred. Thus, the Prime Minister's office receives regular reports along the way in such a process and will also receive information from our crisis support unit and our situation centre on how the situation develops on an ongoing basis. This means that the Prime Minister is kept informed of the activities of the Ministry of Justice and Defence in this kind of concrete event that the representative asks about, and thus has no role in the concrete crisis management. Although the representative Tajik will hardly be satisfied with this answer either, I think it would be wise for the representative to go through the royal resolution I referred to in my previous answer, to be clear in his own understanding of how this responsibility actually exists, and how this is governed in the same way in this government as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e99	There will be follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e102	If the Minister of Justice saw the case on TV 2 yesterday, he realized that the Prime Minister answered directly a question about who has the coordination responsibility, that ‘the coordination work for the whole government is also on the SMK’. What does it mean that SMK is responsible for coordination, and what is the role of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e107	These are two very different questions, and yesterday the Prime Minister answered two very different questions. Of course, the Prime Minister has a coordinating responsibility for the activities of all departments by coordinating and interacting all departments at all times. That is why we also have government conferences and the kind of meeting points in which we are discussing government policy and development, and it is obvious that the Prime Minister's office and the Prime Minister play a very central role. With regard to concrete issues, on which the Labour Party is trying to create a political game, where there are no uncertainties, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has responsibility for coordination in the area of security and preparedness policy. But it is the principle of accountability, which underlies all the departments and the activities of state councils, which are responsible for security and preparedness in their own department. So what we're responsible for is the coordination of cross-border relationships, and things that matter more than just what's in each department -- in addition to having a driving role, we have a supervisory function. All of this is very clearly described in the resolution in question, which I have referred to twice today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e114	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e117	We've cleared up the Minister of Justice's responsibilities. Preparedness was at the heart of the Gjørv Commission, which was thoroughly discussed in the Control Committee, and what was there was the key challenge was to change the management culture – that we were given a management culture that was operational and that worked in practice. The majority of the control committee at the time – the government parties – pointed to the need for a mission-based management culture, that is to say, those in the first line, those in charge, were given the necessary powers to do the job. Is it so to understand that the new government will follow this up, so that it is those who do the job, who are getting increased responsibility and trust, in line with what is the overall authority's understanding of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e123	I think that's a very good question. As the representative Lundtigen remembers from my time as head of the Control and Constitutional Committee along the way in these processes, we were all concerned that one should give authority to be in charge of one's own responsibility. In all leadership development and leadership dialogue down the streets, it is one of the most important focus, that one should enable people to do the job we as a society expect them to do. It's about leadership in absolutely every part, and it's about trust that those who are going to do the job can do that job and be able to do that job. It's an important focus from the department, and we're going to follow up the comments that, to put it another way, a total collapse was behind in the last period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e128	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e131	The Minister for Climate and Environment has the constitutional responsibility for climate policy. That is why my question goes to her about the possible consequences for climate policy if the area resolution at the Utzira height is scrapped. The main climate issue for the Minister this year is electrification of the Utsira height. The question of being able to power from land on the four platforms instead of using turbines, highly polluting gas power plants, on each single platform is what she has to answer and at least follow up. The climate message was clear that there is one measure that we must succeed in: the height of the outsira – power from land. It was followed up by all the parties here in Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party. This is something we want and require the government to work closely with. In these days, the conclusion is that, unfortunately, a minimum solution is chosen that will power only one platform, Johan Sverdrup, from land, and then there will be highly polluting gas power stations on the other platforms. We have the potential to clean up to 1 million tonnes of CO2. It's equal to 2 pst. of the total annual emissions of Norway, or from approximately 400,000 cars. The worst thing is that it's locked-in emissions. These platforms, and one in particular, have to stand until 2060, and if I'm not completely wrong, it's 75 years, that's a long time. It's emissions that we can clean now or never. One shall not clean or use electrification at any cost. The Oil Directorate, which is responsible for quality assurance, has said that the cost is 400 kroner per tonne. ABB, a supplier, has said that one can actually make $100 per tonne. And then climate change says that we might have to apply measures up to NOK 1500 per tonne. What environmental advice has the Minister for Climate Change given to the Minister for Oil and Energy in order to succeed in this action?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e147	In the climate agreement on power from land to Utzira Height, the size said to follow up the ongoing investigations and aim to supply the southern part of Utzira Height with power from land. Statoil should make the closest choice of concept, i.e. the extension solution for which you want to go, including the choice of energy solution. The choice of concepts will be part of the development and operation plan, to be approved by the authorities. The climate agreement is firm. In the climate agreement, the use of the instrument in relation to the petroleum sector was reinforced and increased incentives for power from land were put in place. The aim of the size was to contribute to the involvement of the petroleum sector in its responsibility to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions in the short and long term. This is also the goal of the government. The government works to realize power from land on the Utsira Height, and we also expect companies to work to realize this. The authorities will closely follow up key choices for future power generation into the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e158	I have a desire to add responsibility to the climate minister. She says that the climate agreement stands firm, and in the platform wants you to strengthen it. This question alone will increase emissions by 2 pst. And the climate agreement says we're going down by 30 pst, which is completely wrong. Very well known, Stortinget has almost never rejected a PUD. That means that the government must have close dialogue with the companies along the way, so that the solution that companies come with is based on what the Storting wants. And the majority of the Stortinget was clear that we want an area solution, and we want to succeed in electrification. Therefore, it will also be the job of the Council of State to look after the other ministers of the government to ensure that the general climate policy is optimised. We've just been through a hearing on Mongstad. The Right Party and the Advance Party asked major questions about cost estimates, and I expect it to do the same now. So I'd like to repeat my question, because that's what's important: what environmental advice has the climate minister given to the oil and energy minister in this process to succeed in gaining power from land at the Utsira Height?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e167	The answer I gave was an answer on behalf of the government, not on behalf of the climate and environment minister. The government works to realize power from land on the Utsira Height, and we also expect companies to work to realize this. That's why we're now closely following the road choices for future power solutions in this area. There is an answer on behalf of the government, not on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e172	There will be follow-up questions – Rigmor Andersen Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e175	This case shows that the Norwegian political system lacks effective instruments to control, manage and implement Norwegian climate policy. This also pointed out the Riksrevision in a very critical report already in 2010. On Wednesday last week, Denmark adopted an Climate Act: Greenhouse gases should be reduced by 40 pst. by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, and Denmark will dispose of all fossil fuels by 2050. Every five years, national climate objectives shall be presented with a 10-year perspective. An independent Climate Council will be set up with experts who will provide advice on how to achieve climate objectives. In the 2012 Norwegian climate agreement, six out of seven political parties agreed to assess the appropriateness of a climate law. Can the Council of State now tell me how far you have come with this investigation, and how do you intend to implement any climate law?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e184	We will follow up on the point of the climate agreement to assess the appropriateness of a climate law. The size will be kept informed of that work, in the same way as for the other points of the agreement. We cannot conclude on the appropriateness of the Norwegian climate legislation until we have carried out such an investigation. However, we note with interest that in Denmark there is a political consensus on the proposal for climate legislation that has now been put to the hearing. Corresponding climate legislation has been adopted in the United Kingdom. We believe that in Norway we have strong environmental legislation without significant gaps, and we may have what we need to pursue an ambitious climate policy. We will first assess the appropriateness of legislating the climate objectives in addition to the law we have. We'll get back to Stortinget with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e191	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e194	Like the representative Ropstad, I am concerned about the signals that have come about electrification of the height of Utsira, and I am also concerned about the follow-up to the climate agreement. The government has said that it wants to strengthen the climate agreement, but what we have seen so far is that the government has proposed cutting rainforest production, cutting Transnova, cutting CO2 capture and storage, cutting renewable energy in developing countries, rejecting the proposal for an increased CO2 tax for heavier vehicles. All these areas are mentioned in the climate agreement. When the government consistently cuts in climate action, and the government parties don't even seem to agree on the existence of the climate problem, can the minister in any way within anything that affects the climate, see the government approaching a strengthening of the climate agreement, as they have said they want?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e208	For this government, the climate agreement stands firm, and we have said that we should strengthen the climate agreement. In the state budget for 2014, we made an increase in investments into the railways, we increased the mineral oil tax and started to convert the green tax shift. We have said that climate and environment should shape this government's policy. We've been sitting for four months and coming back to the 2015 state budget on how we're going to follow up on how we're going to spend more on public transport, we're going to put down a green tax commission, and we're going to investigate a biogas strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e215	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e218	I share the concerns about the signals coming from a region solution for the Utsira height and force from land. It must be very clear that the concerns of the Storting and the climate agreement are ahead of the oil companies. This represents a very large part of Norway's new future emissions, and my question is: does the Council of State realise that it is possible to achieve the overall objectives of the climate agreement without providing an area solution for electrification of the Utsira height?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e223	For the government, the climate agreement is firm. The government works to realize power from land on the Utsira Height and expects companies to realize this. That's why we're going to follow that work closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e228	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e231	I would like to follow up on the last question from Geir Pollestad, because it is clear that the height of Utsira is absolutely crucial if we are to achieve the objective of the climate agreement. In the climate agreement, the objective is to bring us down to 47 million tonnes by 2020 – more precisely 46.7 million tonnes – from approx. 52 million tons today. Then I would like to repeat the question, because it is absolutely essential that this be put in place to avoid this increase: what measures does the Minister for Climate Change see that she can implement in order to achieve the objective of the climate agreement, if one does not now receive an electrification of the height of the Outsira? Or does she view electrification of the Utsira height as a prerequisite for achieving these objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e238	As I have now said several times, the climate agreement stands firm. We know what the Storting has said about electrification of the height of Utsira. Therefore, the government is working to realize power from land on the Utsira Height and expects companies to work to realize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e243	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e246	It's very good if the climate agreement stands firm, but if it's the only thing that stands firm, while the emissions rise, the Minister's opinion is not very much worth it. That is why I have a simple question to the Council of State, and that is the following: the oil sector needs to reduce its emissions. Then they cannot go up, the oil sector's emissions have to go down. How many tonnes of CO2 does the Minister think must be cut elsewhere if you do not get a full electrification of the Utsira height? And in that case, where are these cuts to be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e254	We know that oil and gas account for 26 pst. of emissions in Norway. We are aware of what the Stortinget has said in the climate agreement, and I repeat that the government is working to realize power from land on the Utsira Height and expects companies to also work to realize it. We're going to follow that work closely with the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e259	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e263	The Council of State for Climate and Environment answered the question from the Christian People's Party here today about the progress in the investigation of a Norwegian climate law, that this investigation is in process. This was the standard response from the red-green government throughout the period from the requirement for an investigation into climate law to the climate agreement, until the government went off. The fact was that the red-green government didn't do anything to enforce a climate law. Will the Council of State take the opportunity to show a more offensive attitude and a more committed attitude through, first, to give us a time when this investigation may come, which has allegedly been in process for years, and, second, to highlight a point of view in relation to what is an offensive climate law based on policies in both Denmark, England, Mexico and every other country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e270	As I said in my previous answer, we are following up the point of the climate agreement to investigate the appropriateness of a climate law, and the Stortinget will be kept informed. When I say we're going to investigate, I think we're going to do a job on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e275	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e278	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. We have recently heard representatives from one of the government parties comment on the climate issue in a way that gives cause for concern. However, I would like to give the Council of State an opportunity to explain a little bit about the government's environmental policy. Looking away from the measures that have been achieved in the Grand Duchy as a result of budgetary negotiations, what concrete measures have the Council of State proposed to reduce Norway's emissions of greenhouse gases?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e285	The government has said it will strengthen the climate agreement. We have said that climate and environment should shape our policies. It takes some time because we work across many departments. We've said that we should put down a green tax commission because it's going to cost to pollute and pay off making environmentally friendly choices. We're investigating tax credits for energy saving, and we're going to spend more money on public transport. This is the type of policy area that needs to be explored and included in the State budget. I didn't mean to bring a lot of games, because we're not concerned with symbol politics. We are concerned with a policy that is changing Norway towards the low-carbon society. Then we also have to have business. We now have several rounds of business to engage in dialogue on what they need from policies to produce goods and services that we need in the low-carbon society. We're working on it, but this won't be visible until one sees the state budget for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e294	We have already seen some examples of what the government has proposed, and there are horizontal measures that work against the climate. A cut in the increase in the electricity charge, a cut in the car charge in a more environmentally hostile direction, and a cut in the CO2 compensation scheme for the industry. The council said to Stavanger Aftenblad that one should bet more on the track and collectively and less on the road. The government proposal's fascist was 1.4 billion. kr on the road and 100 mill. kr to railway. A cut in the CO2 management at Mongstad from 150 million. NOK 50 million. kr, and one has cut in the rainforest bet. The government proposed cutbacks which fortunately did not get a majority in the Stortinget. I have to ask the Council of State to say once to what concrete measures she has proposed, which work for the climate and not against the climate. It's good that the climate agreement stands firm, but now it seems like it's stuck.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e307	The climate agreement stands firm. We need to strengthen the climate agreement. The budget adopted in the Storting of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right, went in the right direction of strengthening the climate agreement. We're going to do more, but it's hard political work involving more ministries, turning a society towards a low-carbon society. We need some time to do that. It will be in the state budget for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e314	It opens for follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e317	I am very pleased that it is said by the Council of State that now one is not going to run symbol policies, now one is going to change Norway. According to our leading climate researcher at the Bergen Mountain Centre, it is now better scientifically documented that climate change is man-made than cigarette smoking is a health hazard. That's why what the Council of State says is important. What's the problem with CO2 is the combustion of fossil carbon. My question is: if you want to change Norway, you have to change the economy. You have to charge for what's the problem, the fossil carbon, and you have to add money to what's part of the solution, that's the green carbon. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e329	We also work internationally to put a price on carbon. I think it would have been a great advantage to get a price of carbon, so that business too can relate to it in terms of future investments. We've also said that we want to use the oil wealth to reverse this society. We want to spend more on research, more on education, more on infrastructure and more on growth-promoting tax incentives. We're also betting on the green carbon. We are now protecting more forest areas. So we also know that there is partly professional disagreement about whether to store the most carbon through protection or through active use. There we've also asked for an investigation that comes to the autumn, so we'll come back with more about the green carbon that Lundtigen is now asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e336	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e340	In terms of climate, we have heard several times the Minister for Climate and Environment say what they mean. But we've also seen what they're actually doing. So far, there's little evidence of a willingness to reinforce climate reconciliation, and the greatest will of the government is perhaps to create frustration around what's actually climate reconciliation here in the Storting. The tension in these days is linked to Statoil’s decision – Statoil’s choice of solution – for the Johan Sverdrup field, and thus also the possibility of electrifying the Utsira area. My question is really simple, because it is the Minister for Climate and Environment who is responsible for meeting the climate agreement set by Stortinget. Is there any possibility that the objectives of the climate agreement can be achieved if one does not facilitate an area electricisation of the Utsira region?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e347	When we say that the climate agreement stands firm, it is also important that we work to realize the power of land at the Utsira Height. I think the representative of Terje Aasland in Political Quarter today early said quite wisely that we should wait to discuss numbers until we see what Statoil is presenting. But we expect companies to work to realize electrification, and we'll follow it closely up to future power out into the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e354	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e357	The government must be pleased that they have the Christian People's Party and the Left to remember and propose measures to strengthen climate reconciliation. We're very impatient. In a previous response to me regarding climate law, the Council of State replied that it would consider the appropriateness of such a law. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly asked the same question to the former red-green government and received the same answer as we have received today. We have greater expectations. This work should start in 2012. My question to the Council of State is, how long are we going to wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e366	I've said we're investigating this. I have no date for when I can come back to Stortinget. I notice the impatience of the Greatness around this, but the Christian People's Party does agree that while we're investigating, it's important that we work together to strengthen climate reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e371	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e374	We have little time to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. It's only six years until 2020. We need to take measures that are proportionate to the task we are facing – that we are going down to 47 million. tonnes. I believe this year's budget is a good estimate of this process, but it is no more than an estimate. What we need to figure out is that we have measures that also present the extent to which these measures will be cut, so that action can be taken and the reduction targets achieved. Then my question will be: when the Minister for Climate and Environment will present his proposals for action, including: in the budget, will they also include a concrete calculation of how much emissions this will lead to? Will they include a plan for achieving the final objectives of the climate agreement? And will one at the same time ensure that there are no other things going in the opposite direction in other parts of the budget – where the Minister for Climate and Environment has the overall responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e383	I am very pleased that Elvesuen believes that the common budget adopted in the Storting is a good estimate. We were going to do something during the hectic weeks last fall. We now know what we have as common responsibility for strengthening the climate agreement. It's important to work across many departments, and that's the whole thing that matters here. How we will present it in detail, I cannot answer now, but we are aware of the agreement we have – also with the Left. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party are good at doing what's a good estimate, so we're going to follow it up, and that's important for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e388	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e391	It is difficult to believe that we have a government that is working very hard to reduce Norwegian climate emissions when everything that is going to reduce climate emissions takes a long time to figure out, while what is increasing climate emissions is immediately smacking on the table. Now it is the case that a new record has been made in oil extraction by creating a new record in the award of new exploration licences. It is estimated to move CO2 cleaning abroad, it is estimated to reduce the oil tax in order to make oil investments more profitable, and we have an oil and energy minister who does not know what the Norwegian climate targets are in contact with foreigners and foreign delegations. I ask again: can the climate minister explain how much increase in CO2 emissions we get if we don't fully electrify the Utsira height?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e406	It was a little difficult to see what I was going to answer to, because here there were many assumptions about our government. SV spent eight years in government. We've been sitting for four months. We're saying we're going to strengthen the climate agreement. We are following up the oil policy of the previous government. We'll figure out carbon capture and storage. We lost some time because of the track the previous government followed. We also say that we want to electrify at the height of Utsira and follow it up. I can't believe that Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås really accuses this government of going in a crazy direction compared to what his government was part of, did.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e416	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e419	It is encouraging that one representative after another for the previous red-green government is now very offensive and impatient to implement a climate policy and emission cut that they themselves did not provide the whole world with. It is also very encouraging that we have received a new government that has promised both a more offensive climate policy and a reinforced climate settlement. But the chance is here now, in Stortinget, to explain not only to us when we are going to get the climate law investigation that the previous government didn't give us, but also to give some signals about when the initiative comes and what are the ambitions of the enhanced climate agreement that the government and the state council have announced. Can the Council of State now give a signal as to when this work is going on and what kind of time frame are you looking at?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e426	When it comes to the investigation of climate law, I say it was investigated. I have no date for when we get back to Stortinget with it. With regard to our work on strengthening climate reconciliation, I say that it is a comprehensive work involving all the departments. We have to get back to that in the state budget for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e433	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e436	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. The cooperation agreement concluded between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left provides: ‘Immigration is a source of diversity, new impulses and cultural exchange. Variation contributes to exploitation, innovation and creativity. While immigration has contributed to economic growth in Norway and made us a more diverse nation, we see challenges related to immigration and integration.’ Further: ‘The Asylum Institute is a very important tool for providing protection to people who are genuinely threatened and must not be abused in any form. Norway shall fulfil its international obligations and assist refugees.’;» And on the other hand, ‘Immigration to Norway motivated by work and family reunification/establishment is today much larger than immigration as a result of refugees. It is a good thing that immigrants want to create a future in Norway. Knowledge, competence and diversity contribute to increased innovation and industrial development. Labour immigration policy must allow for residence on the basis of work, including non-EEA countries. In particular, it is necessary to make it easier for business to attract highly skilled labour from other countries.’ And on the other hand, «At the same time, a more offensive policy ensuring immigrant access to the labour market is important.» On the government's website, the following quote from the government council, Vidar Helgesen, dated 9 February of this year: ‘The Swiss voters in the referendum have disagreed with their government on an important dimension in Switzerland’s external relations. From the Norwegian side, we would stress that the principle of free movement of persons is important for growth and prosperity in an open economy.’ My question to the Minister of Justice on the basis of this is: does the Minister of Justice intend to pursue a policy under the cooperation agreement, and does he therefore agree with the referenced text and also with the Minister of Justice Vidar Helgesen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e469	The short answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e474	I would like to thank the Council of State for the short answer and a clarification of this. Yesterday, on the other hand, I saw that the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, on behalf of the party leadership, said to the NRK that he wanted a referendum in Norway on welfare versus immigration. He said, "Should we continue today's level in Velferds-Norway, or should we continue yesterday's immigration?" Does the Minister of Justice support Sandberg, and is it the government's policy that a referendum on immigration should be held? Or does Sandberg say himself, who was thus involved in negotiating and signing the cooperation agreement, across government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e483	The Progress Party has been committed for very many years to increasing the influence of citizens through increased direct democracy, so it should not shock anyone that the Progress Party still believes that referendum is an instrument that can be used in different contexts. The government has not assessed this issue, and the government is dealing with the cooperation agreement that we have concluded with the Christian People's Party and the Left in this field. We are committed to having close and good cooperation with the parties to the agreement in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e488	There will be follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e491	Yesterday the representative Per Sandberg also said that he did not represent the agreement he had signed, but that he was merely representing the programme of the Progress Party. It is easy to explain that it has gone away, but then it is also important to clarify that the State Councils of the Progress Party represent that declaration of cooperation. So my question is: does the Council of State represent the declarations of cooperation and what is the government's platform, or is he, as the Council of State, practicing within the programme of the Progress Party? And question number two is, does the Council of State think it's okay to have Vice-Chairmen who go beyond what they have signed in a cooperation agreement, and who operate completely free from this in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e498	I think it's okay that all the party's Vice-Chairs tell us about the individual party's policy. It should be open in every respect, in my view, but the cooperation agreement between the four parties has been thoroughly and well dealt with in the bodies of the Progress Party and has been endorsed by the National Council. There is no doubt that, as such, both the government and the Progress Party are under that agreement, and to the extent that there has been uncertainty about it, I am pleased that the representative addresses this issue. I believe that there has not been any basis for that uncertainty and would be clear that the Progress Party is behind the agreements that are being concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e506	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e509	It was okay to clarify that we now know that we can relate to one Progress Party that sits in government, and another Progress Party that acts in the staging room and public space. It gives me reason to ask this question to the Council of State: is it so that we can also ignore what the Party of Advancement might think in this Chamber, because it will in any case not be the government's policy? I also have another question about this with referenda, which the Council of State had in mind in its first answer – that it has been Progress Party policy for a long time. The councils of state are known from that party. Is it the case that the Council of State believes that there is a basis for a referendum on immigration policy, and what should the question be? Is the question of accepting asylum seekers? Should the question be whether to accept quota refugees, if any, how many? Or is it the question of labour immigration that was suitable for a referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e516	This was a strange question from a representative of a party who has been in government himself, a government that met parts of one of the cooperation parties in the lawn out here because they demonstrated against government policy. I think it's a serious misunderstanding if you think government participation means putting a lid on any political creativity in any party. Then the role of the parties will be completely played out. It was perhaps like this under the red-green government, where it was the government that made all the decisions and put an end to any political discussion in the parties. This government is considerably more democratic, and we are concerned that political processes will take place in the parties despite our being in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e523	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e526	We now hear that the Council of State does not support the proposal of the Vice-President of the Progressive Party to hold a referendum on immigration policy. I'm glad he does, and that in that way he parks the whole debate, because if this were really to be a theme, the government would of course fall. But a theme that was addressed yesterday by the representative Keshvari was a claim that the population in general had a negative view of immigration. There are then some studies, such as: SSB study, showing that 80 pst. the population is positive for immigration. It's also very important for the companies. Does the Minister of Justice agree that immigration is positive for businesses and for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e533	With regard to the parking of political positions, Andersen's representative comes from a party that really got to feel it over the past eight years. It has not been what I have said, that I park some political processes – rather, on the contrary, I have said that I am dedicated to stimulating political processes in the parties, and that the parties should make recordings. At the same time, I have said that the government has not dealt with this issue, but it is not at all relevant for this government to say that we should stop any policy development. It should be a position that the representative Andersen would appreciate, because she was not given the same liberalism from the previous government. When it comes to the question of whether immigration is positive or negative, I stand by what is in the cooperation agreement. Much of immigration is a positive contribution to Norway, but there will be a very simplification of the issue, because immigration and asylum and refugee policies are a complex area of various groupings involved. That's why it's hard to answer that question in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e540	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e543	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. In the Political Quarter of 16 January, the State Council of Tord Lien was challenged on how he would ensure that the government’s greenhouse gas reductions are committed to by the climate agreement, if the Utsira height is not fully electrified. Councillor Lien replied that it was not his responsibility. So the oil and energy minister believes that he does not have a responsibility to meet the climate agreement. It is worrying, because it is he who is responsible for the sector that accounts for the largest share of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, namely Norwegian oil and gas activities. My question to the Health Council is therefore: Is it true, as the Minister for Oil and Energy says, that he is not responsible for Norway reducing its greenhouse gas emissions and meeting its climate targets for the oil and gas sectors? Does the Health Council therefore agree that she is also responsible for greenhouse gas reductions in the oil and gas sector? Or does Tine Sundtoft think that state councillor Tord Lien is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e552	I believe that it is the government that is responsible for working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and that is also the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e557	Then I think the constitutional responsibility is a little bit touching. As a result, we are wondering who we should be responsible for ensuring that greenhouse gas emissions from the oil sector go down. Is that Tine Sundtoft, or is it State Council Tord Lien?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e562	It is the Minister for Climate and Environment who has the constitutional responsibility for this, but Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås knows very well that if you are going to have a good climate and environmental policy, you need to cooperate with other departments, because most instruments are not in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, but in other departments. That is why this government focuses on overall climate and environmental policies, and that is the common responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e568	Then it opens for follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e571	I've never heard of a government council that doesn't respond on its own behalf from the Parliament's pulpit, and in that case it's probably a rather eloquent illustration of the lack of authority of the Ministry of Climate and Environment and of the climate issue. I hope that the opinion expressed by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment can be taken seriously by the Stortinget, and that it is not that she really believes anything else, but is not allowed to say it. I feel the need to repeat some of the questions that have been asked today, which the Council of State has not answered. So we're facing an opportunity to get a highly polluting gas power plant at large parts of the Utsira height. Is it that the Council of State not only expects companies to work for electrification, but that they will also work for it? I would also like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that it is permissible to use the entire speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e580	The government works to realize power from land on the Utsira Height, and we also expect companies to work to realize this. We will also address the question of the use of force by countries in the treatment of individual developments. It is the Stortinget and the government that put the framework for the business on a Norwegian base, and we are very aware of what lies in the climate agreement, what lies in the Stortinget, and the government is therefore working to realize power from land at the Utsira height.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e587	Åsmund Gruver August – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e590	This debate has shown that the government totally lacks both the will and ambitions of climate and environmental policy. It's disappointing, but it may not be very surprising, because one of the main reasons why the Workers' Party warned against the Right opening up to the Advance Party in government was precisely their climate and environmental policies. The Minister for Climate and Environment has a fellow member of the State Council who said before the elections that the climate noise had been found on the left side in order to have a reason for introducing taxes and taxes. We thought that after the elections they had changed rhetoric, but last week the members of the Progress Party were climate policy spokesperson in the North Lights and made it clear that the party does not believe in climate change, and that the UN Climate Panel is only a political ordering agency. So my question to the Council of State is therefore: What influence does the party's environmental policy figure have on climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e599	The President will remind you that you have to stick to the main question, and the main question here was who has the constitutional responsibility. But I'm going to leave to the council if she wants to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e602	The government attaches great importance to basing climate policy on science, and the United Nations Panel on Climate Change has the highest knowledge available in this area. I think it is important to have a debate on the scientific results. Science is sometimes sceptical, and a debate on climate change and greater and less security is a natural part of climate research. Now, when the climate panel says that climate change is ‘extremely likely’ to be man-made, it means that it is 95 pst. Probably, it's something of the same thing as that if it's more than 95 pst. the probability that your house gets moisture damage, you assure it. This government also bases its policy on the precautionary principle. So we trust the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e609	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e612	I need to say why I think it is important that the Council of State is high on the agenda for the Utsira case. It's because in a year's time the matter comes to Stortinget. In a year's time, there may already be pre-investment. In a year it may be too late to redesign the platform. The choice is made – almost always – one year before the case comes to Stortinget, which is why the government has to work on it. My criticism today is probably going so much to the red-green ones, which I felt didn't follow closely enough on the matter before, because it could have been done more to push the companies. They could have agreed a long time ago. But I would like to stress that we are not going to gain power from land to Utsira at all costs. The point is that we're going to do where it's appropriate, and where it's cheap, and here's power available – it's shelf product. Electrification is done on so many platforms, it's not a moon landing, as in Mongstad, it's a suitable area. And are there large costs? Well, it depends on the solution you choose, and then it depends on what job the government has done. That's why I ask the question again: Is it that the Council of State has really not given environmental advice, and is it that the Council of State has not worked closely against the Ministry of Oil and Energy to ensure the best possible solution, to ensure power from land to Utsira?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e623	Former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg wisely said during the hearing on Mongstad that there was no comment on internal proceedings in the government. The government works to realize power from land at the height of Utsira.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e630	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e634	I'll deal with the main question, but I'll first notice that if it's 95 pst. chance that your house will get moisture damage, then you will not call the insurance company, but a craftsman who can fix it and who can act, and who can make it good! It can also be transferred slightly to the climate issue, where in several areas there is a slightly unclear relationship between the Minister for Climate and the Environment and the Minister for Oil and Energy. Regardless of the fact that the two Councils work well together, my follow-up question is: Will the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change contribute to making it easier for the Minister for Oil and Energy to get through their concerns on the concession for hydropower and wind power? Will there be more scope for the expansion of small-scale power plants in sheltered watercourses than today? Will the Minister for Climate and Environment put in place a less rigid protection policy to achieve its objectives, such as: in the case of bioenergy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e641	The president appreciates sticking to the main question, and thinks it's very creatively developed. I'll leave it to the Healthtoft Council if she wants to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e644	But I guess you're glad you have an insurance policy then before you call the craftsman. In terms of renewable energy, we say that we want more renewable energy, and we also want to work to reduce the processing time of renewable projects. And then in each case we'll see if it's possible to do that, even when you take environmental considerations into account in the individual projects. But we want more renewable energy and less processing time. We agree on this – both the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e654	Ola Elvesuen – to the next and last follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e657	The government is responsible for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and the oil and energy minister has to take responsibility in his field, just like all other ministers, if you're going to have any kind of opportunity to achieve those goals. Then we have heard several times during this day that the government is working to gain power from land at the height of Utzira, and then the question is: must it be the entire height of Utzira – and not just power from land, but that you are working to electrify the entire height of Utzira? But then it’s not just ‘to work for’. I wonder what is the government's desire and will – do they have ambitions, will they get an electrification of the height of Utzira? This requires will and not just a procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e664	The climate agreement is firm, and in the climate agreement there is a desire to electrify at the Utsira height. This is also why the government is working to realize power from land at the height of Utsira.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e669	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e672	Today’s reservation access for health professionals related to abortion has remained unchanged since 1975, despite various attacks. In 1981, Røres Kåre Willoch refused to accept the Christian People's Party's demand for abortion and thus joined the government alone. Since then, today’s restriction of reservation access has been widely supported by the population. Nevertheless, the government is now proposing out of the blue a reservation access that lacks parallel in Norwegian society. Deputies shall be able to refuse to provide information and to disclose alternatives to abortion. They should also be able to refuse to tell a pregnant woman how far she is going. However, the Minister for Health shall be commended for sending the matter out at a wide consultation with an open question as to what is actually meant by such a reservation scheme. Norwegian municipalities, led by, inter alia, Right-wing rapporteurs have clearly said that they are clear against the proposal, and organisations and individuals are very committed. It is good in a living democracy. I am therefore very surprised by the Minister of Health's response to the commitment. The Health Minister has turned around and no longer believes what he himself has written in the letter of consultation. He now tells the Stortinget and the media that this is not a hearing on what is considered to be the proposal, but only a hearing on how to implement the proposal. My question to the Minister for Health is: Does the Minister of Health really think that he will promote some form of reservation access regardless of what the Norwegian people say in the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e691	I would first like to say that the representative's history had a lot of big holes, for example. a significant gap in the fact that her own government, by the Minister of Health, so late as in 2009, sent a letter stating that there is an opportunity for permanent residents to make reservations. But in 2011 it was made clear that it is not. My task is to implement the agreement of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party on the introduction of a reservation facility. It is also in line with the current position of the Committee, where a majority in the European Parliament has now indicated that a request for a reservation should be made. What is now at the hearing is the way in which this reservation facility is to be designed, and I would like to read with excitement the drafts of hearings coming from the municipalities of the country. As far as I know, we have not yet received a single hearing opinion, so it remains to be seen what the municipalities of the country think about the different elements of the reservation possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e700	The Minister of Health answered something inaccurately about my question. Norwegian municipalities and not least Norwegian women are now working intensively with the hearing and take very seriously what is stated in the letter of consultation that the Minister of Health will have their position by the deadline of 30 April. Is the Minister of Health really the message to all those who are now working on a hearing response, that he is now changing the premises for the hearing itself and will promote some form of reservation access regardless of what the public opinion is and whatever counter-conceptions appear in the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e709	Of course, when a government initiates a law work in which a law sends out a bill for consultation, it is with the intention that a government intends to set up the system. The purpose of the consultation is to provide views and input into the various elements of the legislative proposal. It means — and this debate has also been largely demonstrated — that there are many ways of introducing reservation facilities. There's a lot of questions that follow in the order of it. To those questions there will be many points of view, and there are points of view that we will listen to. However, the establishment of a reservation facility in Norway has been asked by a majority in Stortinget to work with the government, and the Stortinget will be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e717	It opens for follow-up questions – first from Tove Karoline Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e720	The Council of State therefore insists on giving permanent doctors the right to make a reservation – at the cost of what they will cost. He has made statements, despite the fact that there is now a hearing that I hope he will listen to. Some of the reasoning that might come is as follows: One important pillar of the fixed medical system is that we as patients should have one doctor to deal with, one doctor that we become familiar with, and not least that one doctor, the doctor, should be able to be there when we're in crisis and when we really need it. This is the very reason for the fixed medical device. Can the Council of State understand it if there are objections that the right of reservation is rocking by the system itself and by the foundation of the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e731	Yes, if there was a right of reservation the government suggested, I would understand that objection. That's why it's a reservation option we're proposing. There is a reservation facility that will be limited by the fact that local conditions allow patients to be properly cared for. That is exactly what will be the difference between what we are proposing and what has been the practice in Norway for nearly 40 years, namely that the individual patient is able to discover the reservations of the prescriber at the doctor’s office in the current situation, while what we are proposing will mean that this is information that patients are given in advance, with new rights to be able to change quickly, not least with the limitations of the fact that this is a kind of agreement that can only be concluded where the local conditions allow for the availability of the facilities of other prescribers nearby.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e738	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e741	The reservation debate is about freedom of conscience for a small number of doctors right now. Unfortunately, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the debate has become an abortion debate. The debate on how we really want it in our liberal democratic society has gained little space. I would like to ask the Council of State: what do the Council of State think about the principle of freedom of conscience in a liberal democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e748	I think that's a very important question. For this reason, it has also been mentioned in the initial consultation note that this is one of the conditions that we want to take care of in society. Today we have a reservation right in the specialist health service that I feel is that there are no parties that have been asked to cancel. The right of reservation in the specialist health service is based on the very principle that having a freedom of conscience in society is a good thing, but it is a good thing that must not go beyond others. Because they have managed to organize the service in such a way that it does not affect the patient, there has been a system that has worked well and that has a wide range of uprisings. The proposal I have sent out on the hearing, I believe, is based on exactly the same principle: there are two good aspects that can be taken care of at the same time, but it must be ensured that the individual's freedom of conscience does not affect the patient. I think that is well taken care of in our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e757	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e760	All the parties in this room are in favour of reservation rights in terms of contributing or helping with abortions, as the Minister of Health says. Some of the great things about politics are that you can have different principles and different ideas, but still implement and compromise. But with regard to the proposal that the government has sent out at the hearing here, I believe that there are all sorts of bombs. It is possible to argue in principle on the basis of the conviction of conscience for a national policy with some safety valves. But can we argue that there should be a municipal policy in this area? If the government believes that conscience should be a guiding principle and that doctors should be able to reserve themselves on some issues, it must be a national issue – not a municipal issue. The compromise that has now come, nobody wants it. That is something the public debate has shown. Should not the government then withdraw the consultation proposal and make a more thoughtful and principled proposal, so that people can decide on the issue of conscience?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e773	The fixed medical scheme is not a national scheme. It's a local arrangement. Reservation options are precisely based on the idea that a person must take account of local circumstances in order to safeguard the patient’s rights. This means that I have difficulty imagining that you can create a model that is about a reservation option – not a reservation right – without taking account of local circumstances. In fact, for those who are best placed to assess local conditions, the individual municipality is also a contracting party. There is also a discussion theme in the consultation on the state to give stronger leadership because municipalities can say no to such an agreement, but it is just one of the issues raised in the hearing and on which one will get a good response through the consultation process. Therefore, there is no reason to withdraw this hearing. We simply have to wait for the municipality's views on it before we draw any conclusions, and then it's the Storting that will ultimately decide this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e780	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e783	I am also concerned about the weakest. In the meeting between a doctor and a young girl who is going to make such a difficult decision, I believe that is the young girl we need to protect. I want to ask the Council of State a question. I live in the inner east of Oslo. There we have many games with Muslim backgrounds. With a reservation option, all these doctors are also forced to make a choice as to whether this is an option they should use or not. If you are to follow Muslim faith, it is the same as with Christian faith. A lot of these doctors have patients who choose them because they can speak the language they feel it's best to communicate on difficult questions. Does the Council of State think that all women who choose these doctors are given equal freedom of choice with this legislation as it is now, as they get if it had not actually been up to the doctors to make the choice – whether to do this or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e793	In the current situation, there is no option, because the individual does not have information about which doctors have reserved. This has been practised in Norway for 40 years. The individual physician has not only been able to reserve himself for abortion, but also, on a number of other questions, without the requirement to inform the patient or systems ensuring alternative offers. It is part of our job to find out what is a very good alternative for many women, and which also many women, not least here in Oslo, take advantage of, namely the possibility to ask for abortion themselves by going directly to the specialist health service. Over half of the women in Oslo do that. That is also why I have now sent a letter to the hospitals to clarify that the law is like this, but also to clarify that those who may have financial expenses – for example. if they have to travel to the hospital – normally they will have their expenses covered, without having to have a referral from the hospital administrator.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e800	Audun Lighthouse – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e803	A look-up in Bergen's Official Journal yesterday shows a number of concrete examples of reservations that are practised by certain permanent practitioners, who go far beyond the question of abortion. It is associated with assisted reproduction for lesbians, it is linked to contraception, and it is even related to LAR treatment for addicts. Although, in my view, the Minister of Health would have an impact on his poor proposal for a referral to abortion, all of these types of reservation would still be illegal. For the time being, it is also not allowed to make a reservation against referring to abortion. I wonder what the Minister of Health is doing now to end an illegal reservation. Now I am not interested in any more discharges from the Minister of Health. I am not interested in hearing what he thinks about the previous Minister of Health. I am not interested in hearing what he thinks about the municipalities. What will the Minister of Health do to end an illegal reservation, here and now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e810	I understand that the representative Lightbakken wants to forget the previous government as soon as possible and does not hear anything about what happened then, but what I do in that area is exactly the same as the previous health minister did in that area, which is what is legally correct. In the first place, it is a municipal responsibility to ensure that the decision-makers deal with the agreements they have. In the next round, it is the supervisory authorities that we have – the county doctors – to monitor this, for example. where there is a lack of clarity about legislation or complaints by patients. It has become, I think, clearer than ever through the proposal we have sent out at the hearing – and much more specifically to the municipalities of the country than the previous government has been able to – that it is those who have a responsibility to ensure that the practice of the decision-makers is in line with law and order. If there is one thing this consultation proposal has contributed to, it is to clarify this responsibility in a much better way than the previous government has been able to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e815	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e818	My question goes to Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft. Recently, five Rogaland municipalities went out and declared that they do not want further renewable development in their municipalities. The reason was that they do not see the benefit of this type of development, and this is a very strong and important signal of a fundamental dilemma in Norwegian renewable development. There is broad agreement on the need for a rapid and comprehensive deployment of renewable energy in Norway, so that we can get into a society as soon as possible that does not base our well-being on destroying the climate of the earth and the future. But most people at the same time recognize that we have other values to care for, and that climate solutions that prefer nature to use the bath water are not solutions. The Minister for Climate and Environment is responsible for Norwegian nature. When we see a development where more and more people do not see the benefits of renewable development, watercourse development, window construction or other things, because there is no clear and binding link between what we are building on and how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and because it is not clear how to achieve Norwegian natural values in parallel with this renewable development, we have a double problem: we are destroying nature without having a good reason for why, and we are undermining the will for further renewable development in Norway. This can clearly be solved by a comprehensive and committed planning that at least provides some answers to this dilemma. The question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: Will the Council of State take responsibility for starting a process that provides a comprehensive and binding response to how we are to preserve Norwegian nature and Norwegian natural values in the future development plans, and how are we going to use the energy we produce to reduce greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e829	It is important to focus on renewable energy in order to follow up the climate agreement, and it is important, as I said in a previous response, to reduce the process time for renewable projects. Then we see in each case that taking environmental considerations means that local self-government too is not attractive enough to bet on renewable energy. We also have a time challenge with regard to the electrical certification system, so whether it is time to create a comprehensive plan and at the same time get into the electricity certification system, I doubt, but it is obvious that we need to come back and see how we are going to build renewable energy in Norway. But let me stress, as the representative Hansson is also concerned about, that we need to take environmental considerations into account in each assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e834	There has been a lot of talk about the division of responsibilities between governments here. An area of responsibility that can hardly be particularly questionable is the question of maintaining Norwegian biodiversity. So there is an obligation for the government, through the Convention on Biological Diversity, to stop the loss of biodiversity by 2020. This year we have because former governments have failed to meet their commitments to halt biodiversity loss by 2010. There is therefore a need for measures that have not been implemented so far. That's why I repeat the question a little bit more precisely: How will the Council of State ensure that the loss of biodiversity in Norway is halted by 2020, while we are doing the renewable development that the Council of State again underlines that it will implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e841	As the representative Hansson says, we have committed ourselves to following up biodiversity by 2020. Therefore, it is important to include it in any planning. The challenge is to balance climate policies and environmental policies – balancing renewable energy efforts while safeguarding nature protection. We want to go into each case and see this. We are aware of the responsibility we have to preserve biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e846	There will be one follow-up question – from Eigil Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e849	It is gratifying that the Council of State states that the development of renewable energy is important in order to follow up the climate agreement. I fully agree with that. Therefore, I also believe it is important that Norway cooperates well with the EU on ambitious climate targets by 2030. The Commission first proposed 40 pst. CO2 cut as the main target, but with 27 pst. renewable share as an additional objective. The European Parliament was all the more ambitious last week and proposed increasing the renewable target to 30 pst. and to make it more obligatory. Before Christmas, the Norwegian Government sent out its contribution in the form of letters with a desire for a single climate target, as well as vague formulations of renewable energy, i.e. a much less ambitious policy than both the Commission and the European Parliament put forward. The government is constantly repeating its commitment to a more active European policy. Will the government continue to work for the EU to have a less ambitious climate policy, or does the Council of State consider the work done?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e860	I was in Brussels yesterday and had talks with climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard and supported the EU's ambitious target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions. It's the most important thing. That is why we supported one main objective: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I could use an example. We see that Germany has invested a lot in renewable energy. They've done a good job on it. But in 2013, Germany used as much coal as in 1990. It illustrates that it does not just keep investing in renewable energy. Efforts must be made to achieve the main objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e865	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e877	There will be one change in the question list, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed change to the ordinary Questionnaire is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 2, from the representative Stein Erik Lauvås to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 10, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e890	‘In the newspaper Our Country on 30 November 2013, the Grand Representative for the Progress Party, Jørund Rytman, criticized the red-green government for the fact that it is no longer possible to obtain tax deductions for gifts to the organisation Karmel-Institutet. In the same vein, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Jørgen Næsje states that the government will look at the relevant guidelines. Will the Council of State go in to amend the tax law to allow indirect State subsidisation of organisations contributing to acts contrary to international law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e897	Under the Tax Act, taxpayers are deducted from the income determination for gifts of funds to certain non-governmental organisations that fulfil more detailed legal conditions. The tax law includes: provided that the beneficiary organisation is a company, a foundation or an association which has its seat in the State or in another EEA State. Furthermore, the organisation must not have acquisitions for purposes and activities for certain approved purposes. The organisation is required to carry out at least one of the activities listed in the Tax Act. This applies, inter alia, to: health promotion for children and young people, religious or other life-viewing activities, cultural protection, environmental protection, development assistance, disaster relief and human rights work. On a proposal from the previous government, the Stortinget adopted, with effect from 2012, an exclusion clause in the gift deduction scheme. This provision allows the Ministry of Finance to exclude organisations from the gift-deduction scheme in order to ensure Norwegian follow-up to decisions of the UN Security Council. The Ministry of Finance decided under the previous government, in 2012, that there was a basis for excluding the Karmel-Institutet Foundation from the gift-deduction scheme under this provision. So far, this rule of the tax law has meant that one organisation is excluded from the gift-deduction scheme. It is an organisation that was initially approved in the scheme in the light of its charitable activity. Initially, I am in favour of the intention to ensure compliance with international law. But I think it's a prerequisite for an exclusion mechanism that we have rules with objective criteria and the minimum degree of judgement possible. It should not be up to the discretion of the government to enforce the provision at all times. I therefore believe that we should take a closer look at the criteria and guidelines underlying this exclusion rule. That is what I intend to do in consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e912	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am well aware of what the previous government did in this matter. I'm very proud of what the previous government did. I also ask because the Minister of Finance himself has contributed to the exclusion of two Israeli companies from the State pension fund abroad, on the basis that they operate in violation of international law and contribute to the occupation of the West Bank. It's an interesting turnaround from the Progress Party. But it also raises the question: Does the Council of State think that whether the Carmel Institute contributes to the occupation of the West Bank and whether the occupation of the West Bank itself is contrary to international law is a matter of discretion? It should be thought that operating in an occupied area to the greatest extent is an objective question given how clear the world community and the UN have been in their treatment of the occupation of Palestine.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e917	Firstly, the Progress Party has not carried out any spin-off. Secondly, the representative Valen now combines the management of the State pension fund abroad and the exclusion criteria there with that scheme, which relates to the gift deduction scheme. As I said in my first answer, I am initially in favour of the intention of the exclusion rule to ensure compliance with international law. But I still think it is right to reconsider the guidelines contained in the relevant provision of the gift-deduction scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e924	I would recommend that both the State Council of Jensen and other government councils from the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government cease to base their misunderstanding when they ask questions. This is probably the fourth or fifth time it's said in the hall today. The reason why I'm withdrawing exclusions from the State pension fund abroad is that the Ministry of Finance under the State Council, Siv Jensen, has made an assessment that Africa Israel Investments and the subsidiary Danya Cebus contribute to international law-enforcement activities by operating in East Jerusalem. It is an interesting question when the Council of State itself says that she will again look at how the rules are practised in terms of tax deductions for charities and exclusion mechanisms there based on exactly the same criterion — whether they contribute to international crime. So again, my question to the Council of State: Does the Council of State Siv Jensen think it is a matter of discretion to consider whether activity on the occupied West Bank is a violation of international law or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e929	I do not think I said that the representative had misunderstood. I said he had mixed up two different questions. I still believe that the representative does. I have previously informed Stortinget that, in connection with the announcement of the State pension fund abroad, we are going to review the recommendations that have been made in connection with the ethics management in the fund. We'll get back to that. The question now concerns the exclusion provisions of the gift-deduction scheme. What I have said, as I will repeat once again, is that although it is important to respect international law obligations, I believe it is nevertheless necessary and right that I go through this provision again, and that I do so in consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs to see if there is any basis for assessing this device in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e938	Question 2 will be answered in response to question 10. Let's move on to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e945	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘State Secretary John-Ragnar Årset said at Fredrikstad Højre’s annual meeting that the urban package for the Lower Glomma region is not promoted for Stortinget until after the summer. The head of the Swedish Road Agency's project tells Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad on 4 February that the Ministry of Transport was sent the documents in October. He responds strongly to the fact that quality assurance has not really started. The Progress Party has promised faster progress on road projects. What is the reason why the town package for the Lower Glomma region is not sent to Stortinget this spring?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e954	As the representative should be aware after his party has been in government for eight years, quite a lot of extensive processes are in place when a person plans to build roads and introduce urban packages. A draft selection examination must often be carried out and this quality assurance must be carried out. It is a system that also existed under the previous government. We are doing well to start the quality assurance process, because it is part of the process that the previous government also announced. This will happen as soon as possible. In the Ministry of Transport, we're done with the work we're going to do. Together with the Ministry of Finance, we will have this sent out – or it may have already been sent out – in the normal way. So I can agree that some of these processes appear to be very circumstantial. This government has announced that we are going to work to simplify planning processes and reduce planning time, because it is completely unreasonable that one should spend up to 10 years planning new road sections in this country. Then I would just like to remind you that in the red-green government's budget proposal for the Stortingen last autumn, it was not announced that this matter would be dealt with by the Stortingen in this big year. So the fact that a working party politician has more expectations for the new government than for what his own government was able to deliver, doesn't surprise me, but I think it's good to put it into perspective. We will deliver this matter to Stortinget during this year, in order to have the decisions taken during the autumn to ensure that the package has the progress it will have. Investments were not to be made in 2014. It was a package that would have an effect from 2015, and it will still have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e968	The case was transferred from the Road Directorate to the Department at the end of October – 20 October after I was informed. So if this has not yet expired, you have spent three and a half months starting work on quality assurance. I don't think that's doing what you can to get this done as quickly as possible. This is a road package where the drivers in the Lower Glomma region have to pay 94 pst. of the costs. Therefore, this can go on regardless of what is in a government budget, for that contribution of 6 pst. you can get a little bit later in this process. It's important to get started. And I just want to repeat, or ask the councillor, since he was a little bit confused about whether it's already been sent out: is it now out, or isn't it out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e973	Firstly, in the budget, the previous government announced what matters it was aiming to deal with the Storting. In the list of city packages that it wanted the Stortinget to treat, the Harstad package and the Bodø package were listed, but the red-green government did not actually list the Lower Glomma package. It suggests that the criticism that is now coming against today’s government becomes completely unreasonable – when your own government had not planned it for the future. The fact that you are impatient after we're going to do things faster than the previous government, yes, I think that's good, and there we're going to deliver, but we haven't delayed anything yet. Then it's not like that when you're going to prepare these KS1 processes, you're going to receive a KVU in the department one day and send it on unseen the next day. One does different processes with it. An entity shall have this out on a tender basis — that means that different actors shall be able to compete. Of course it takes some time, and it is also a collaboration with the Ministry of Finance. We've done our job, the Ministry of Finance is doing its job.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e980	There are many days between a day and the next day – three and a half months have passed since it arrived in the department. It had to be possible to speed up this process, which I fully agree with the Council of State that is very extensive and time consuming. That's why you're impatient to get started when you finally get the project out of the Road Directorate and into the department and ready for political treatment. I assume it's quite demanding to put something into a budget when you're not sure when you're done in the Road Directorate, but it can't be an excuse for the Council of State not to have the pace up. So I hope he now does what he can, so that you can treat it as early as possible here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e985	Yes, I can promise that we will deal with this as early as possible, and faster than the red-greens had added. They had not notified it in 2014. We will promote it in 2014, but the Stortinget will probably not be treated until the summer – it will come shortly afterwards. But we have to make the necessary decisions to keep the progress of the process going. So once again, it's a little bit strange to get criticism when we do things faster than the red-green ones. The fact that the red-greens want things to have happened even faster, is far from good, but one had the opportunity for eight years to improve these processes so that one had not needed the lengthy preparations for every little thing one should do. Then I also remind you that the representative in the newspaper Fredriksstad Blad has demanded that you also reduce the toll percentage. When one comes up with such demands from the Workers' Party – when they themselves have fought for tolls – one should understand that this government too wants to see how it is possible to reduce the toll burden on the drivers, and it also takes some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e994	I have to get the word to clear up a manifest misunderstanding. I have not demanded to reduce the amount of tolls. I have said, on the basis of the government's own platform, that this should be done...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e999	Then that misunderstanding is solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1002	It wasn't a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1011	‘Of the routes in the east, only Jaren-Gjøvik has a two-timer frequency. In the national transport plan for 2014-2023, an hourly frequency on Gjøvikbanen is set as a minimum in an escalation of the offer. To achieve this, infrastructure measures are required, including: increased power supply between Jaren and Gjøvik, new crossing tracks at Reinsvoll and station and platform measures at Nittedal station. Will the State Council ask the Railway Agency to start planning so that the measures are completed and the offer is extended before a new offer on the Gjøvik Railway?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1018	Let me first say that the Gjøvik track is a success. The Gjøvik railway has had an adventurous traffic growth since it was put at a competitive disadvantage. It shows that the outsourcing works, and that it should have been done on several sections of the route – something that the previous government unfortunately stopped. But the Gjøvik track is like this, an inspiration for us. The traffic growth it has experienced despite the fact that maintenance has not been particularly priority on that track. One doesn't have the most modern material, but one gets to take advantage of it in a very good way. We want to contribute to that success further. But then, as the representative mentions, there is a need to make a lot of investments in the path if you're going to get the frequency up. With today's infrastructure, it is not possible to obtain an hourly frequency. Then it is also worth looking back at the national transport plan adopted in Stortinget last year, where the red-green government did not allow it to use a krone in investments on this track for the next four years. Today's agreement between the State and Gjøvikbanen needs to be renewed in 2016, so the previous government had not planned any upgrades before the agreement period would be renewed. I am very pleased that red-green politicians are now offensive and want things to happen faster than they themselves got when they put in government, and we aim to get to it. But at the same time, we now see that there is a so-called concept selection investigation for the transport capacity into Oslo. It will be important for our priorities in accelerating projects, because it looks at the whole of railway infrastructure – at what is possible, at what is necessary for investment in different sections, in order to get things connected well. That report will be available early in 2015 – that is the plan as of today – and then we will base it on it. With that, I can't guarantee any of the investments that are requested during this four-year period, but I could say that we will speed up investments compared to what the red-green plans. I remember that in the budget that was adopted in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, we increased the appropriations for the railway by nearly 1 billion. kr more than the previous government added. As a result, we are doing well both to re-establish some maintenance kits and maturity that have occurred, and to look at the possibilities of making new investments. The last thing I want to say is that the priorities of the Storting are often taken into account in terms of the priorities of the individual states and regions. In Oppland, a choice has been made to prioritize the intercity route towards Lillehammer higher than an upgrade to the Gjøvik Railway. Also here we act, based on it a desire locally. To the fact that one in opposition wants even more: I hope that it is also anchored locally, and that there is a united party that wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1031	I thank you for your answer. I have great expectations – regardless of the colour of the government – for the railway operation. What I wanted to get a – preferably confirmatory – response from the Council of State was precisely about this by launching the Railway Agency with the planning of the necessary upgrades, which must happen. I am aware that there is no financial incentive in the budget in the future, but it is necessary that from 2016 we should be able to have an offer that has been upgraded on the basis of new supply, on the basis of increased and stronger supply. There is also an option in place until 2018 for Gjøvikbana today, which can participate and give some room for action in order to have a new offer ready. I hope that the Council of State wants to take a little more actively into that piece when it comes to the Railway Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1038	I can promise that we have a very proactive approach to the railway. We're going to have a reform of the railway sector, where we're going to make sure that the railway works become a more professional player in terms of responsibility for infrastructure. So we want to make NSB a more professional operator in terms of transport services. That means we have to allocate a little bit in relation to the roles that they have today. We want to open up that also other people who can make a good offer on the rails get the chance to show what they're doing. Just the Gjøvik track is an example that it works very well. It's important that, when we make investments, we have a long-term perspective on it. That is exactly why it is important in this case to look at the whole of the railway works that are now working on. We will take that into account. This will be put into place during 2015. Then we can start accelerating important investments. I just want to remind you that the previous government had not planned to do anything on this route for the next four years. We're going to do something, but I can't say how much it's going to be today, and when it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1047	There is little detail on the sidebar, but this is still very important for the Gjøvik track and the acute situation that is today, where they have had the acute maintenance problem with four out of eight wagon sets, which are now out of service. I assume that the Council of State is aware of this. The problem here is a stretch of track that is enormously curved compared to others. This is the most curved track in Norway, which creates even greater wear on the particular wheelset. Will the Council of State assess the speedier upgrading of wagon equipment, possibly rented in wagon equipment, in order to remedy the current acute situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1052	Much of what is being addressed here is problems that you have been familiar with for a long time — even under the previous government, without a choice to do anything. I am glad that you have great expectations that we will do more than the previous government. That's what we're gonna do. Among other things, we have increase the appropriations here. We also have good dialogue with the Railway Agency, the NSB and all the other actors involved in the railway infrastructure. There are several plans for upgrading the Gjøvik track – power supply, crossing tracks and various station measures. We also need to look at the actors responsible for operating and purchasing materials. Of course, if the acute problems arise, the Railway Agency will have to move out and do its job. It is part of their maintenance responsibilities. Once again, it's a little interesting to hear that the party that ran the Ministry of Transport for eight years now has separate requirements for virtually all sections of the route. Requirements which they failed to prioritize in government shall be resolved immediately when they are in opposition. I think it would have been nice if the Center Party even prioritised what requirements they should set first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1065	‘In a recent investigation by the Norwegian Editors’ Association, 50 psts. by the nurses that they have refused to participate in public debate because of their loyalty obligations. 51 pst. of those who asked that the duty of loyalty was stronger than freedom of expression in their own subject area. Recently, it was also known that a doctor at Haukeland hospital of the health care establishment was denied information about the workplace and the title of a reading aid. Is the Council of State satisfied with this practice of freedom of expression and the duty of loyalty in the health sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1072	As I underlined to the representative Toppe in the interpellation debate on 9 December last year, this is an important topic both in hospitals and in the workplace in general. The freedom of expression of employees is closely linked to the individual's employment, and since the department does not have an employer's role in relation to hospital employees, it is natural that I, as Minister of Health, express myself primarily on a principle basis. When I, as pointed out here, do not have an employer's role, it will not be natural for me to comment on the individual pisode referred to in the representative Toppe's question. Health establishments and other health services must have effective freedom of expression. The right of employees to speak freely and without fear of consequences is fundamental, and I would like to stress that health workers have a very important voice in the health debate. Hospitals should be able to deal with critical questions to them from their own employees, employees who often know the business better than anyone. The involvement, input and input of employees is important in the common objective that all health professionals have — to provide the best possible service to the population. The Ministry has stressed in its business meetings that there is a great deal to be done in order for an opinion to conflict with the loyalty obligation in all employment conditions. The hospital must consider whether the opinion given should lead to changes or meet with counter-posts. At the same time, it is clear that hospitals, like other employers, can determine who is speaking on behalf of the hospital, and that employees must not express themselves in such a way as to cause unnecessary harm to the employer. In addition, health professionals have a special responsibility towards patients and their relatives. Employees are strictly bound by professional secrecy and are required to protect the integrity of patients. However, this should not be seen as a restriction on the freedom of expression of workers. Employees shall be able to comment on their own behalf, but not in the hospital. As I started with, the freedom of expression of employees is an important topic and a fundamental right in a job. Employees are and shall be an important premiscuous supplier in the public health debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1085	The same study shows that almost half of the intermediaries in the health sector experience that the loyalty requirement for the rental has been more stringent in recent years. One-third says they've got poorer opportunities to make critical public comments. Arne Jensen, who is the leader of the editors' union, my findings confirm a development in which more and more public agencies are equipped with rules for communication that bind people. I'm worried that this is dangerous also for patient safety in the health care system. The Council of State answers that he does not have direct Employer responsibility, but he is responsible for businesses. Would he have a specific review of the hospital communication regulations, which may be what makes the loyalty obligation so strict?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1092	I believe that the hospitals are developing rules for communication, not preventing the freedom of expression of employees. On the contrary, clarifying the legislation in this area – where the boundaries go between when a person speaks as a health professional and when a person speaks on behalf of the hospital – is an advantage for the public debate. Having unclear rules on this issue, where the individual himself has to find out where the boundaries go, will help to limit the individual’s ability to participate freely in the debate. Having a clear regulation in this area does not make me feel like a problem in itself. These are large businesses, with competent directors – where employees are represented – and with good management models. That I, as the owner, should sit and control the communication regulations of each healthcare company, I believe that I am very opposed to what is my ambition, namely that we should reduce the number of objectives and requirements towards the companies, and concentrate on the objectives and requirements of what is important to the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1099	I would like to thank you for your answer. On 1 February, the Official Journal of the Bergen could tell of a superior in the Haukeland hospital that was ordered by the company to remove the hospital admissions in a discussion post in the newspaper. Jussprofessor Jan Fridthjof Bernt says that this is unacceptable by the enterprise and clearly illegal, and that the hospital does not have access to such limitations. You have the right to tell them who they are and where they work. So my question is: I believe that the Council of State will not go into the individual communication regulations, but when it is said that a communication regulation and an ethical regulation are contrary to the law, with the intention of the Constitution, you should intervene and look at the practice of this in the enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1108	I assume, of course, that those regulations are within the law, and that the regulations also take into account what I have announced as the owner of the business meeting, namely that the threshold to limit the freedom of expression of employees should be extra high in health companies, because we want a public debate on health policy. If we are to have a good public debate on health policy, we depend on those who work in the service to participate in that debate in a simple and bold manner. What is a discussion theme is the limit to when an opinion is expressed on behalf of itself as a professional and when an opinion is expressed on behalf of an institution. I think everyone understands that there must be clear rules, that it is set in system who speaks on behalf of an institution, and who speaks out as a professional.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1119	‘The political platform for a government, set up by the Right and the Advance Party, states that ‘The government will take the initiative of a pilot scheme with State funding for the care of the elderly, on which municipalities can apply’. The Progress Party has received a number of enquiries from municipalities that will participate. Has the Council started work on the establishment of a pilot scheme for the government financing of the care of the elderly, and if so, when can we expect the scheme to be in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1126	In the government platform, we say: ‘Initiate a pilot scheme with State funding for the care of the elderly, for which municipalities can apply. The testing scheme shall include a limited number of municipalities, duration over time and evaluation.’;» I am now considering how to set up and implement a test scheme. The care service is the largest municipal service area and accounts for more than a quarter of the municipal gross operating expenditure. These services are essential for the quality of life and the health of many citizens in each municipality. It is therefore important that we see the whole picture and take care of all the user groups during and after the trial. I believe that the representative of Nesvik will agree with me that the aim of the pilot scheme is to examine how state funding can improve the quality of care services so that the user's needs are met in a good way, ensure more equivalent offers across municipalities, and ensure that the state's requirements for services are better in line with municipal service expenditure. Therefore, the thoughtful and good design of the pilot scheme is a prerequisite for us to try out and experience the most interesting models of government funding for these services. I also think it would be useful to emphasise a good dialogue with the municipalities and KS in the design of the scheme. I am already doing this work, but I will spend some time putting in place a good setup for the trial, and I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way as quickly as the investigation work allows.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1138	I thank the Council of State for the answer – not least for a very positive response. It is obvious that the Council of State is already working on such a task, but the Council of State also understands that the party of progress here is very impatient. After fighting for these things at least for the last 20–25 years, this is an important issue for the Progress Party to get on the agenda. The aim is, of course, the users and the service offered by the users. That's what this is about. It concerns the quality of the service, that it should no longer be the municipal boundaries that determine the type of service you receive, etc. Then it is important to put in place a system that municipalities can apply for, so we can — as the Council of State was also involved in its response — evaluate in retrospect. That's what's the whole point. Can the Council of State say a little bit more about what time perspective you can see, or at least give a signal if we can expect this to be put in place in the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1147	We are doing this work well in the department, and we are working to get the necessary clarifications from the government regarding the progress of this work. I understand very well that the Progress Party is impatient that we should implement this part of the government platform. Therefore, it has been a priority task for me to start this work early in the Ministry of Health and Health. We have already received several enquiries from municipalities that want to participate in this, and have indicated that they want to be part of such an experimental scheme, so I think it would be easy to recruit municipalities to be part of this. What we need now is simply to clarify the framework of the scheme so that the municipalities know it, and then I am quite convinced that we can get it ready within a short time and thus start working on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1154	Once again, thank you for a very positive answer. It is obvious that when establishing the framework that will apply here, it must also be done so that both extracts and other things are arranged in such a way that it will actually be interesting for municipalities to apply for this, and that a system is not created that makes it difficult for municipalities to change during the period in which they are located. It's important, and it's also important because it has to refer to a relationship between what this system will actually be, unlike the system we have today. I fully understand that these things can take some time, but I hope at least that you get a system in place that makes the municipalities that consider applying for this know what you have to deal with when you're going to start, among other things. budget for the following year and until the harvest. So it's important to put things in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1159	The model we're working on now will involve the municipalities in the development of the different experimental models, and KS is involved in that work. It is precisely to ensure that the models which are then tested have a connection in municipalities that have an interest in being involved in this work and that this is also continued in an accompanying research, so that a continuous experience is gained from this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1168	‘I am not satisfied with previous answers to written question No. 221 and ask the question again. Health authorities are making heavy efforts to help parents live with and deal with children with serious behavioural problems. Recently, Nav has changed its practice so that parents can no longer cover the time they are away from work to participate in the training. This has led to a very negative decrease in the number of parents making use of the offer. Thus, the state destroys itself in an important work. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1175	In order to qualify for training, it is a condition that you must have lost at least 20 pst. of labour income. This is related to the calculation and payment of training fees as sickness benefits. 20 pst. reduced income corresponds to a normal working day. Income must be reduced in total corresponding to one working day per week, i.e. the loss of income can be broken down in such a way that it represents a total of one working day during a week. If the training course is of a shorter duration, e.g. 2 to 3 hours one day a week, the conditions will not be met. The State of Employment and Welfare has not changed its circulars in this area. However, in the reorganization of the process of handling training money to two districts of administration, it was discovered that maltreatment had occurred in some cases — contrary to the legislation. When the conditions for a benefit are not met, the entity is obliged to reject the claim or stop current payments. The establishment may not grant training grants without a legal basis, even if the training course itself is a good measure. I believe that the training money code is appropriate, and sees no reason to make changes as of today. However, the employer may be flexible and enter into agreements with the employee on welfare leave with pay, and the training institutions may also adapt their courses so that parents fulfil the conditions for entitlement to training money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1184	There is no law, regulation or rule that has been changed – it is Nav's practice that has been changed. That's the big problem. Let me take an example. Child and Youth Psychiatric Outpatients are currently offering the program The Amazing Years. It is well documented through research as an extremely effective way to help parents live with and handle children with behavioral problems. 5,000 children have been part of this programme since they started in the late 1990s. One calculates that from a life-cycle perspective, this has saved society for 4.25 billion. kr – a huge gain, and therefore a reason why health authorities are betting on this. Then the Nav and the Labour and Welfare Act tightens up the practice. There are no regulations, no rules, no laws that have been changed, but they have changed their practices. Thus they draw the carpet under this type of scheme. The Minister of Health gives, and then the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs takes this offer away. But the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs can make a difference in a simple message. My question is: While we are waiting for the holistic review of labour and welfare management, will the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs give a message to the State of Labour and Welfare to use discretion, so that these families can receive this treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1195	It's true, as the representative of Knag County says, that many courses and actions are very positive. As a parent, I have been allowed to participate in the amazing years – a great offer for many parents. At the same time, I would like to stress that there is neither amended legislation nor practice except in cases where practice has been incorrect. This requires a change in practice, so that the practice is governed by the law. I hope that this is not how the representative Knag Fylkesnes asks the State Council to continue to give the Nav a signal that they should continue wrong practices and grant training money on the wrong basis. In that case, it would be very unfortunate, and I will not take the initiative at all to continue wrong practices. I think it is important to continue with the right practice and the same practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1204	When it comes to the last thing, I think we misunderstand each other. It's not like I'm calling on the Minister to encourage Nav to practice wrong. I urge the Minister to announce that the practice, the tightening, or the specialisation that the Minister calls it in his response, is stopping, so that there is room for this kind of programme that the amazing years, which has proved to be tremendously positive. I would like to mention Professor Willy-Tore Mørch who has said to the newspaper Nordlys that the most effective treatment of children with behavioral problems is the guidance of parents. One of the programs that has worked the most is the amazing years. Then it's very sad that we're now actually in a situation where that practice can presumably be the death of this program. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs can then be responsible for the fact that very many parents with children with behavioral problems do not get the help they need, with the problems this entails for families and for society otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1211	It is still the case that the legislation is unchanged. Some cases of mispractice have been identified. They will probably experience that the practice is reinforced when you switch to the right practice. Then I feel that the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, says you should not continue with the wrong practice, but you should continue with the right practice. That's what I've been thinking. Someone who has received the wrong treatment in the past will experience a tightening. But I still think it's important and right that we have the right practice. It's going to be the same all over the country. I will take that into account, and therefore continue to relate to the legislation in force today. At the same time, I would also encourage employers to make arrangements. The terms are pretty clear, you're going to have 20 pst. reduced time. If you have a shorter training period, yes, you do not fill the conditions. Some have even got it with shorter follow-up time. It's a wrong practice – I'm glad it's cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1222	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘A total of the aggregate wants area electrification on Utsira. Lekkasers indicate that when selecting the concept, a 78 MW solution integrated into the Johan Sverdrup field is chosen because a hub solution is too expensive. Will the Council of State ensure that the 200 MW solution integrated into the Johan Sverdrup field that ensures area electrification is also investigated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1231	In the climate agreement, the use of the instrument in relation to the petroleum sector was greatly strengthened, and strong incentives for power from land were put in place. The petroleum sector is subject to strict instrument use. The main means of limiting CO2 emissions from the socket is the high emission cost to companies through the CO2 tax and inclusion in the European ETS as a whole, at a cost of 450 kr per tonne of CO2. This gives companies strong self-interest in limiting emissions. The Ministry follows up the ongoing investigations and aims to supply the Utsira Height with power from land. The government will, among other things, in the light of the ongoing analyses by rightholders, decide whether such a solution should be established during the examination of the individual developments. This race is in line with what the previous government proposed in the Climate Communication and to which the Stortinget joined in the Climate Change Agreement. The rights holders of the Sverdrup field are approaching the decision on the choice of concepts. Operators and other rightholders are now discussing, investigating, assessing and quality assurance a number of aspects of the choice of concepts. Based on the framework conditions that have been established, companies must, inter alia, on a commercial basis. establish a development solution, including an assessment of the best power solution for each deployment. This also applies to the Sverdrup find and fields of the Utsira height. After the design selection, the material from the companies will be reviewed by the Oil Directorate. This also applies to the issue of force from the land solution. Investment decision and submission of plans for deployment and operation are planned early in 2015. The Sverdrup development will be presented to Stortinget in the usual way, and the company's timetable is aimed at getting the expansion dealt with in the Stortinget spring session 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1253	Thank you for the answer, even though the Minister of Oil and Energy chose not to answer the question. To make it clear, I'm aware that the PUD is coming next year. As far as I know, there is almost no PUD in Stortinget. It is because there is close dialogue between the government on behalf of the Stortinget and the oil companies. That means that the Minister of Oil and Energy must also have close dialogue with the companies. One shall not always electrify. On the contrary, one should say no if it is not economic or not possible to achieve it. But in this case, there's power available, it confirms Statoil and Statnett. It is a shelf product – there is no moon landing, on which the Council of State must proceed. But Statoil and ABB say that this is actually a pick solution, which one finds many other places. It's a suitable area that's confirmed by the Oil Directorate. So there's a question about the costs. The costs are crucial, but it also depends on what kind of solutions a chooses and uses that solution. Therefore, my clear question is: will the Council of State ensure that the 200 MW solution, which is only an upgrade to the solution that seems to be being chosen, is also to be investigated before Stortinget gets the investigation on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1262	The size has decided that force from land should be considered as a power solution for all new fields — including the Utsira height. For the Utsira Height, the companies, on behalf of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, have spent a lot of resources working on an area solution. The Government is responsible for following up the climate notification and the climate settlement responsibly, including taking into account the cost of action. So I have noticed that the cost estimates that are present in the debate are asking questions. We're all served with the greatest possible consensus on the facts. But now the companies have to work up to a concept choice, then the Oil Directorate will evaluate the material that comes from the companies. I am concerned that we make sure that the government has the best decision-making basis possible. Of course, the assessment of the work done by the Oil Directorate will be part of further work on the development of Utsira.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1269	I feel like I'm stretching out my hand to the Council of State, because a total accumulation is busy getting to an area solution. And ideally, I would like to have 250-300 MW and take into account any future expansions. I understand that the Council of State cannot discuss costs that are passed on in the newspapers, and that is why we have to wait for the figures to come. What I'm concerned about is that a boat gets quality-assured numbers and that one gets all of the solutions that are beneficial. That's when I said instead of spending 5-6 billion. NOK 78 MW, an upgrade may be made to 200 MW for perhaps only 1.5 to 2 billion. kr more. It must be in everyone's interest to get an area solution. I also perceive that it is the government's clear task to notify the oil companies of what he expects – in dialogue. I think that might have been done before, but now we see what's coming. Then the Council of State must be clear, so that when the PUD comes to Stortinget, the Stortinge does not reject it because it is not a region solution, but either ensures that Statoil investigates the 200 MW option, or that the Council of State gives notice to the Oil Directorate to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1276	As I said before, I notice that some of the cost estimates in the debate are being called into question, and we are committed to ensuring that the Storting gets a good decision-making basis when this decision is to be taken. When it comes to signals that there are some cost images that look completely different than before, there's a relationship that the government and hopefully the bulk of the population have to consider. The strong instruments on which there was a broad consensus here in this Chamber still apply. It is very expensive to release CO2 on a Norwegian base. That's good, which leads to all the companies on the Norwegian base working to keep down the greenhouse gas emissions from their own production on the socket.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1288	«Member States rely mainly on builders' estimate of costs and calculations in the petroleum sector for the approval of expansions. This is based on the rationale that the builder will be interested in making development in a cost-effective way. How will the Council of State ensure that the cost estimates of the builders are correct, when there are conflicting economic interests between the political objectives of the State, such as electrification of the entire Utzira Height, and the individual company that will experience electrification as a cost item?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1295	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås addresses in his question an important issue. The cost of developing these on the base, both nationally and internationally, is something I'm concerned about. It is because high costs result in lower value creation and thus lower revenues also to the community. Through the tax system and the tax system, the State indirectly pays a large part of the costs and receives a large part of the revenues from the petroleum activity. It is big business and government that lays the framework for the business on a Norwegian base. As the representative himself points out, the companies are responsible for carrying out the activity. Based on the framework conditions that have been established, companies must, inter alia, on a commercial basis. establish a development solution, including an assessment of the type of power solution that is best suited to individual deployments. In the climate agreement, the use of the instrument in relation to the petroleum sector was reinforced and increased incentives for power from land were put in place. In order to ensure environmental protection, the petroleum activity on the Norwegian cap is subject to strict use of the instrument. The main means of limiting CO2 emissions from the cap is the high cost of emissions that companies face through the CO2 tax and the European ETS. This gives companies strong self-interest in limiting emissions. Forces from countries to utsira have been investigated, under the direction of Statoil, by all rights holders in the Sverdrup find and the three fields Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog since 2011. The costs associated with this work have been shared between the rightholders. There will usually be differing views among rightholders in relation to large and complex development decisions. That the rightholders of a partnership challenge each other and guarantee the quality of the decision-making basis is a central part and strength of our management system. The Ministry has followed up the ongoing investigations and has aimed at supplying the Utsira Height with power from land. The government will, among other things in the light of the ongoing analyses carried out by rightholders, decide whether such a solution should be established when dealing with individual developments. This race is in line with the previous government, of which the representative was part, proposed in the Climate Change Communication and to which the Stortinget joined in the context of the Climate Change Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1312	Absolutely, and you know the government council that Stortinget does not get this treatment before spring 2015, at the earliest. This means that what the State Council does in the meantime and the government chooses to do in the meantime is crucial to the choices that individual oil companies will make. That's why it's so extremely important that you get a proper cost assessment in place. On 15 January the Council of State was out with a press release on its own department's website, where he announced that it was going to be significantly more expensive with electrification of the Utsira height than previously assumed. I just want to ask the simple question: When will the Storting get an insight into what basis the oil and energy minister had in order to make this very statement? What was the basis for the oil and energy minister making this statement, and how do they ensure that the cost estimates are independent and good?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1319	The Storting has instructed the Ministry of Oil and Energy to follow this process closely. It does the directorate, and it does the department. The signals have come from the partners in the license, who know this matter best. So I have noticed that the cost estimates that are present in the debate are being questioned, and I fully agree with the representative that everyone is served with the greatest possible consensus on the factual basis of the decisions. So when the companies, which are now working up to a choice of concepts, have taken this choice of concepts, the directorate of oil will assess the material that comes from the companies. That assessment will be part of the further development of the Utsira altitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1326	So it's the licensees' feedback to the oil and energy minister that triggered that statement on 15 January. Very well known and known from the mailing lists of both the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Oil and Energy and my question to the Council of State Lien is: When will we – when will the public – be made aware of the cost estimates, and will the Council of State Lien facilitate a third-party assessment of the costs that arise there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1331	I think it is surprising that the representative finds it surprising that we are trying to follow up on what the Storting has decided. But we just have to take note of that. So I repeat to myself: now we have to wait until the concept selection is actually taken, and that material comes to the Oil Directorate. The Oil Directorate will then assess the material coming in, and it will form part of the further consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1342	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Does the rightness of European studies at the University of Oslo – which is a multidisciplinary study based on a deepening in the EU, such as EEA law, the EU institutions, Norway’s relationship with the EU, as well as European history and languages – to be completed from the autumn of 2015, and is this in line with the government’s objective of pursuing a more active policy to safeguard Norway’s interests towards the EU, inter alia through the EEA Agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1349	Studies based on a deepening of the EU — such as EEA law, EU institutions, Norway’s relationship with the EU and European history and languages — are important for the Norwegian community, as are many other studies. However, it is up to the University of Oslo to decide whether or not to close European studies, cf. Law on Universities and Universities § 3-3. The ministry or the government cannot try this out, and I would also like to stress that I do not want such an opportunity either. We must respect the professional autonomy of the Stortinget has given the universities and colleges of the University and Higher Education Act. As regards European Studies at the University of Oslo, the Institute of State Science has proposed that the Bachelor's programme in European Studies be dropped from autumn 2015. The Board of Faculties shall examine the matter at its meeting on 20 March. If the Board of Faculties endorses the proposal, the Board of Governors will examine the matter at its meeting in June. The study programme has been proposed because it has a weak search — in fact significantly weaker search than the other study programmes at the Institute. I would also like the search to be better, but, as I said, I cannot intervene in the autonomy of the university. I don't want such an opportunity either, so an opportunity to do it. However, the Foundation considers that this does not imply a weakening of the university’s topic services on EU-related topics. The Foundation will continue to offer topics led by active researchers in decision-making processes in the EU Parliament, the role of the Commission, the institutional design of the EU and the administrative processes of the EU bureaucracy, the relationship between the EU and the Member States, Norway's relations with the EU, the role of the EU in international organisations, etc. The representative Anniken Huitfeldt asks whether the closure of European studies at the University of Oslo is in line with the government's objective of pursuing a more active policy to safeguard Norway's interests towards the EU. I am largely satisfied with the study facilities available in this area at our higher education institutions. I am very confident that UiO and others will make good judgements when they decide how they will organise and facilitate the provision of study services in the EU/EEA area. With regard to the government's objective of pursuing an active European policy in the field of knowledge, i.e.: education and research, I can assure the representative that there is a problem that I take most seriously, and that we are working very actively with. In these areas, Norway is more or less fully integrated into the EU’s initiatives and instruments. We have an active and forward-looking strategy to connect and exploit the opportunities provided by Erasmus+. We are planning to join the EU's Horizon 2020 research programme. The additional proposal, which will enter into force this year, will also strengthen the STIM EU funds, i.e. the incentives for Norwegian researchers to participate in Horizon 2020. I would also like to say that the Ministry and the Government have an active policy to be present at the meetings that you have the opportunity to attend in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1366	I'm not asking the Minister of Knowledge to change the law. What I'm asking for is an engagement and an attitude, because the Minister of Knowledge has been concerned that more people choose real science, that we get more study places for engineers. My question was really: what does the government intend to do to ensure that we have many young people taking that kind of education, because this is an education that Norway needs? I would then like a more forward-looking approach to get more young people to apply for studies, so that we can take care of our interests towards the EU. It requires knowledge of what is happening in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1373	I think the important political point for me to stress here once again is that I also don't want such an opportunity to interfere in the inner autonomy of universities. It is important to give a clear message to the university sector that the priorities they want to take in order to pool professional resources, including: raising the quality of the sector as an important objective, they shall be allowed to do so. And then, of course, it's important to stimulate and think about how to get people interested in studies that involve Europe, but then I think we have other tools and other ways to get it done, for example. through public research programmes, an active research effort to understand what is happening in the EU and its relationship with it. It also works with the government, and a clear indication of it is that for the first time a minister responsible for European and EEA affairs has been appointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1378	It's symptomatic of the Government's answer that when I ask, not if he's going to override the University of Oslo, I stressed that I'm not a follower of, whether he has an active attitude to get more students to take education that makes us get a generation that knows more about the EU – that's what I'm asking about – and the answer is that the government has got a European Minister, I have to say that it's a pretty forward-looking answer. My question is: what will the Minister of Knowledge do for more young people to take on education that provides knowledge about the EU? And what will the Minister of Knowledge do for more researchers in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1385	The Minister of Knowledge is not going to do anything to control the student’s educational choices. I believe that the autonomy that the institutions have today to set up master degrees should be theirs. And then I believe that an important signal from political Norway is that we do not interfere with university priorities. Nor do I intend to create reward systems or extra scholarships or do anything related to European studies. I believe that it is the task of the institutions to ensure that students apply for relevant programmes. So I think we have a lot to do about raising European knowledge in, for example. the Norwegian School. It is stated in the secondary school curriculum that students should have knowledge of Europe. There we certainly have a lot to go on. For example, we want to do this. assess the need for learning resources, i.e. resources for teachers to use in their EU and Europe education. But controlling students' educational choices or universities is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1392	We go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1400	I ask the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation the following questions: ‘In the Nettavisen High North News on 3 February, State Secretary of the Ministry of Municipal and Modernisation Per-Willy Amundsen states that ILO Convention No. 169 leads to segregation. Norway acceded to the 1990 Convention and entered into force on 5 September 1991. It has, together with the Basic Law § 110a, been a precursor to Norwegian common policies. Norway has received a positive opinion on its position on ILO Convention No. 169. The State Councils may elaborate on the manner in which ILO Convention No. 169 leads to segregation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1409	I have registered that there are some different personal views on this issue. It's neither new nor surprising. However, the government’s position is clear and unambiguous from the government platform. It says: ‘It is important and enriching for Norway to take care of Sami languages, culture and traditions.’ Furthermore, the platform states: ‘Norwegian and Sami are equivalent languages.’ And on the other hand, ‘The government will develop Sami business, including tourism, related to Sami culture and traditional Sami industries.’ It is not a matter for the government to consider the issue of an ILO Convention discharge. 169. The main principle of the Convention is that indigenous peoples have the right to preserve and further develop their own culture and that the authorities are obliged to take measures to support this work. In my opinion, this is in line with the government's common policy and the Constitution § 110a. The ILO Convention is not about segregation. Both the Sami and the Nordics shall have the right to develop their culture, language and industries. However, the State must ensure that co-operation as a minority is given real equal treatment. This is what the ILO Convention is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1431	Thank you for your answer. We have some examples in view of the Storting's treatment of the Sameting's activities in 2012. The attitude of the municipal committee was made public yesterday. It is clear that the Progress Party has a different view of common policies than the majority, including: The right is included. Does the Council of State understand that there is room for doubt as to what is government party policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1440	The answer to that question is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1445	Thank you for that, too. It is true that there are several examples in view of the setting up of the 2012 Sameting activity, where it is unclear whether the government is united on the common policy. There is wide-ranging duplication of communication with regard to policy. Does the Council of State agree that such double communication is suitable for creating uncertainty as to what is the government's attitude towards the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1454	The answer to that question is also no, for it is clear in the government platform what is government policy in this area. I have to say I'm a little surprised at a representative who comes from a former government party, a party that sat in a government for eight years that also consisted of three parties. I was at that time in Stortinget, and I felt that the then government parties expressed a slightly different attitude on a slightly different matter. We must be able to live with that. I am responsible for the common policy, I express what is the government's common policy, and it is also enshrined in the Sundvolden platform. We live well by respecting some diversity also in the political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1459	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-12.ana.ud56e1472	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
