ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e59	The representatives Sverre Myrli, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Bengt Morten Wenstøb, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The Workers' Party's Group has submitted an application for leave to the representative Per Rune Henriksen on 11 and 12 November to attend the Nordic Environment Committee's meeting with the European Parliament in Brussels. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Marianne S. Bjorøy, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e88	Marianne S. Bjorøy is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e96	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e99	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir S. Tuskedal and myself, I have the honour of promoting representative proposals for measures to strengthen Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e104	The representative, Gerd Eli Berge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e107	On behalf of the representative Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to introduce requirements for the labelling of alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e112	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e130	Thank you, President, for exemplary novelty. We are trying to organise the Norwegian oil and gas industry in the same way as the other mainland industries – good cooperation between employers, workers and authorities, stable and good working conditions, focus on health, environment and safety, focus on innovation and the development of new working methods and the fight against social dumping. Petroleum companies are generally the hallmarks of systematic work to reduce the risk of accidents, both for humans and the environment. A well-functioning cooperation between the responsible actors and strong monitoring supervision are crucial factors in today's situation. The challenge is to continue with the positive developments we have seen in the last ten years and to facilitate further improvements. Although there is a potential high risk of accidents in the petroleum industry, there are very few accidents at work, deaths and major accidents. Rightly, we've seen an increase in almost zero closures related to hydrocarbon leaks and well-control events between 2000 and 2010, which could have resulted in major accidents. It requires extra attention. It is particularly challenging to reverse the negative trend related to well-monitoring accidents and to some extent to hydrocarbon leaks over the last five years. The goal must be to get the number of such events further down to where we were, not just reverse the increase in the last ten years. Of course, industry itself is responsible for ensuring a high level of security at all times and has launched several measures to improve areas where negative developments have been observed. For the authorities, it is particularly important to make sure that the improvement measures taken by industry are effective and that they are implemented throughout the industry. One of the main priorities for us and Petroleum Control is to monitor groups of workers at particular risk. For example, an area of focus in the future needs to be improved for workers who are particularly exposed to noise that could damage their hearing. Let's move forward with positive developments in e.g. These risk groups must be continuously encouraged to continue the positive work and identify areas with potential for improvement. Perhaps the most important factor in this is tripartite cooperation. Good and open communication, negotiated roles and responsibilities is a fundamental principle of good cooperation. Hard HR, or so-called Americanized HR, is not our role model. Much has happened in the HMT work since the pioneer days of the 1970s and 1980s, and it is thanks to the Norwegian working life model where one finds solutions to challenges. In the 1990s it was e.g. clear signals that the parties in the petroleum industry lack a common starting point and a common understanding of the risk picture in the industry. A 2003 report pointed out that in recent years there had not been enough strength behind tripartite cooperation, and that there was a need for renewed and reinforced efforts. The level of conflict between the parties seemed to increase, and the impression was that neither tripartite cooperation nor management signals from employers in individual companies were good enough. In the light of these negative signals, specific initiatives were taken to improve industrial cooperation and an established new and successful tripartite arenas, such as: Security Forums. This led to the fact that the petroleum industry is now often seen as a pioneer industry when it comes to cooperation on HMT work. Many countries now look to us and to the work being done here. Norway now has a 50-year history as an oil and gas nation. In this industry, we find many of our most competent professionals, and the many thousands who work on the base make a very important contribution to our total value creation. As I have now done well, the extraction of oil and gas does not happen without risk. The Stoltenberg government had a very important ambition: Norwegian petroleum activity should be world-leading in health, environment and safety. HMT work involves the rental, control and management of all aspects of health, environment and safety in the petroleum industry with a focus on major-accident hazards. The Solberg government has unfortunately taken this wording out in its letter of assignment to the Petroleum Authority. The working party is critical of the withdrawal of this formulation and finds it alarming for many reasons. If we try to concrete the challenges around the state of the HMT on the socket, there are several aspects that I think should make that ambition stand. Firstly, even though we are now in a period of low oil prices and manning, growth is expected in the years to come, especially in the north. The debate on oil drilling in the north is going to lay down for another time and for another Council of State. The question here is whether we are foreordaining the tough Arctic conditions. I'm particularly concerned about whether the smaller legal entities have the competence of our large operating company, and whether there is anyone else, at all, other than Statoil, who has the competence to operate under arctic conditions. It is then interesting to say to the right government that it is necessary for the government to put in place measures to ensure that any oil industry in new areas further north is implemented with the same HMT standard as otherwise. Then there are many who are concerned about the low recruitment within the offshore. There may be considerable pressure on those added and on the crew situation, while more and more imported personnel from other places than Scandinavia are being used. Missing language skills can be an HMT challenge, and I would like to hear the Council of State assess whether there should still be Norwegian as a working language on a Norwegian base. The range of cost-benefits has been given a greater and greater place by the operators. I very much agree that one should operate cost-effectively, but it does not have to go at the cost of security, at the cost of HMT. We now get to the right of several people that HMT suffers under a cost cut. One example is the safety training of emergency personnel. In addition, there are many maintenance challenges. Our installations are getting older, and the demand for preventive maintenance is increasing. Some of this is HMT critical. In addition, we also see trends in a move from democratic to more authoritarian governance and leadership ideals, where the company benefits more than before rather than cooperation with the organisations. It weakens the Norwegian working life model, which has laid the foundation for good HMT work. All of this is an example of challenges that potentially threaten the HMT relationship on Norwegian soil – challenges that I think must be met by clear, ambitious politicians and strong tripartite cooperation. My question to the Council of State will then be today: Why has the government taken out the ambition that Norway should be world leader before the HMT on the base, and what are the real government's ambitions for this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e170	First, let me thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic for debate, an important topic to discuss – and a topic that is also discussed in the industry. The Government has a clear ambition to be world leaders in the health, environment and safety of the petroleum sector. There has been an overall increase in the number of large-scale messages that have been dealt with in this room on two occasions in the last ten years. I myself have had the pleasure of sitting in the Stortinge in the committee dealing with both messages, where an overall increase determines that one should be world leader in health, environment and safety. That ambition shares the government, and so we want to facilitate its continuation. But at the same time we see that there is a need to think two thoughts at once. There is a need, as stated in our government platform, to look at diet-benefits in relation to what is being done, while not reducing the level of safety. I think there are two things that can be reconciled in a good way, two things that both companies and employees are concerned about. It's about being competitive, it's about creating safe, good jobs, having a high level of health, environment and safety, and ensuring that you have a competitive edge in the industry where you work, which makes you secure and maintain jobs. But it shall never be such that the safety of the employee shall be at the expense of anything. It must not be allowed to fail to maintain, not to make the necessary adjustments, as it may affect the health, environment and safety of the Norwegian base. It is this government that is busy communicating, it is this government that is busy caring for. That's why we have the Petroleum Control, which is out there and has good oversight and follow up on this in our daily work in a good and correct way. I had a meeting with the Petroleum Control Department on these issues a short time ago, precisely because it's important issues, precisely because it's important to have the right balance, the right focus and the right power of work. I am sure that Petroleum monitoring is very dedicated and very concerned with the care of health, the environment and safety, while also being able to maintain the perspective, taking care to have cost-effectiveness on Norwegian soil – two things that are important. Then I would like to remind the interpellant that there have been up to several expert groups on supervisory strategy and HMS legislation in Norwegian petroleum activities. The ENEN Committee concluded in its report of August 2013 that the HMS Code is working well and should therefore be continued. The government is concerned about following up on the None Committee, and is also concerned about following up on the Åm Committee and the Reiten Committee. The latter two samples indicated that efforts will be made to reduce the cost level, which is also reflected in the Government Platform. So here we have three different expert groups, where two have looked at the level of costs and one has looked at the level of health, the environment and safety, and I'm concerned that we should build up under the technical advice, the professional guidance, to take care of both of them in a good, fair and balanced way. With regard to the question of how the criteria should be for health, the environment and safety when the oil adventure goes north, the oil adventure has started and has gone north – the oil adventure has in many ways passed my own house wall in Trøndelag too far and is on a good path northward. In the case of the Norwegian sector and socket, there will always be no separate HMS regime outside Stavanger, another HMS regime outside Tøndelag and a third outside Hammerfest in Finnmark. It is the same HMS legislation that applies to the whole petroleum sector and that applies to the whole petroleum sector. Petroleum monitoring shall be carried out by means of its mandate, through its tasks, in a good and proper manner. To sum up, the government is concerned with the following: It should never be that you should go on chords with people's health or safety when you're out at work. We will continue to be world leaders in the petroleum HMS sector. Let there be no doubt about it! It is reasonable and appropriate to balance and look at how to reduce the level of costs and have a healthy cost level in a large and important sector for Norway. The government is committed to following up the expert committees that I pointed out, in a good, professional and correct way in the future. That's the arrows we're running for. The fourth is that we have given to the Petroleum Authority the mandate that is sufficient to ensure these considerations in a good and correct manner, including through the letters of allocation. There's nothing in our letters of assignment that deviates from the decisions and ambitions that a total accumulation has had over several years: that we're going to be world leaders. Neither does the Petroleum Authority perceive that there is any downgrading of those ambitions, but that there is a clarification of a better balance in the future, with which supervision is also comfortable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e201	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am glad that the Council of State has not forgotten what he was doing to adopt in the Stortinget in his career as a big-time representative. We have, as many professional reports have stated, good HMT legislation and strong petroleum supervision. It's important that a consensual collapse is behind it. As the Council of State itself says – we should not go on chords with people's health or safety. I feel that the Council of State is trying to balance a little conflicting consideration, but not completely concluding, and that is the concern of the HMT and cutting costs. In the extension of that, I want to return to the ambition of the letter of assignment to be world-leading. I find it very difficult to believe that that wording has fallen out of the letter of assignment by mistake because someone has been too eager with the Backspace key. I think there's a deliberate policy on the part of the government. Just as the Stoltenberg government's ambition was a clear signal to the industry, removing this ambition would be an equally clear signal that it is accepted to ease the demands. Does the Council not see the unfortunate signal effect of removing such an ambition, opening up the Council of State with it to allow HMT to become a balancing post to save money in bad times?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e208	They say that the ambition is deliberately taken out of the letter of assignment. What is conscious of this government is that we must be world leaders. What is conscious of the Storting is the decisions taken by the Stortinget and to which any government must act. That's where you decide which control signal to use. The size, this hall, determines the level we're going to have on it. This government is committed to caring for – and we take care of it. When I say that the government shares the ambition that we're going to be world leaders, I think it's a little sad that you try a polemics in this room, you almost say the government doesn't mean what it says. Well, the government means what it says. We're going to follow it up – and we're going to follow it up in the future. At the same time, I also hope that the representative of the Workers' Party is concerned that we should have a sound and proper cost picture and a cost level in Norwegian working life that will enable us to have competitive, good and safe jobs in the future without jeopardising security. Yesterday, when I was going down from Trøndelag, I met someone working with HMS in offshore, who was going up to Brønnøysund on a security course. What he said to me was, "That's good, and we're going to be world leaders." But at the same time, there is also a need to look at the cost level, and there is a need to look at what is the right focus in the HMS work, and what is not. It can't be right, he said to me, that the best HMS work is on creating and producing as many forms as possible. The best work of the HMS must be that we have professional competence, knowledge, among our employees, our employees on the base, who follow the responsibility every single day in a good way, that we have implemented good attitudes and working methods that take care of it. We have to get more time to do that. I fully share that view. We don't relax on the requirements. HMS is not a balancing item for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e221	We have left behind a time of high activity on a Norwegian base. The oil price has been record high, and several new fields have been opened. Now the oil price is falling, companies are notifying about permits and cancellations. Then it is central to ask yourself the question that the interpellant is addressing today: Is the work of the HMS weakened? Trade unions warn that safety-critical maintenance may be pushed on. It's alarming. For a demanding period of time on Norwegian soil, it is important that companies give priority to maintenance on modification, so that one can prevent massive redundancies of employees that are likely to have to be recovered in a few months or a few years. Maintenance and modification is important to extend the service life of the platform. Cut here is not really cut in costs, it's just shifts, because the platforms have to be maintained at some point anyway. The non-priority of maintenance and modification may mean the closure of platforms earlier than is socio-economically reasonable. New findings in the vicinity of an already existing platform may remain due to a lack of continuous maintenance work. The background of the inter-pellant to take up the work of HMS on a Norwegian base is quite remarkable, because the Solberg Government has taken out in its letter of assignment to the Petroleum Authority the wording that ‘Norwegian petroleum activities are to be world-leading in health, environment and safety’, an ambition that the Stoltenberg government wholeheartedly supported and that was contained in the letter of allocation when we directed. It would be thought that in a time of cuts and cuts, pressure from the authorities was particularly important to ensure that the industries meet high HMS standards, even while cutting costs. With many actors on Norwegian pedestals from around the world with different attitudes to the HMS work, it is important that the government imposes strict requirements on how the operation on the platform should be. Operating far at sea, far from land, in all sorts of weather and in cold climates is not risk-free. As the petroleum activity is gradually shifted further northwards, it will become even more important to ensure the health, environment and safety of workers. The tripartite cooperation, the HMS and the safety focus are among those that have created the legitimacy of the industry in Norway and have laid a part of the foundation for the positive development of the industry. It is important that the government ensure that the cooperation between the parties on the base does not get damaged in the phase in which we are now in. Fortunately, major accidents occur rarely in the sector, and strict supervision is one of the reasons. In addition, leadership and training on installations is very important. The safety course requiring renewal every four years and health certification requirements make it possible for us in Norway to have the world's safest petroleum industry. And that's what we're going to fence about. There shall be zero acceptance to take risks in working life. We have a long tradition of that in Norway. The transfer of this mentality to non-resident workers who are either employed in a Norwegian company, a foreign company, a let-in company, or a contractor, is central to the HMS work. Strong emphasis on health, environment and safety and good, orderly pay and working conditions have been important prerequisites and contributions to the success of petroleum activity on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e242	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for an important debate. I appreciate the government's goal in this area. We're going to be the world leader in the HMS in the petroleum sector. There is also a measure of an overall collapse that has fallen behind in the treatment of Report. St. 29 for 2010–2011. It once again shows us some of the strength of Norwegian democracy, all of the areas where we work politically and in common to achieve the goals we are together about – I thought, because now this too is to be polarised. We're already reading it in the interpellant interpellant interpellant interpellant interpellant interpellant interpellant interpellant. Why does the goal of being world leaders no longer exist? Then it obviously doesn't make sense to say that that's still the goal. It doesn't keep telling you how to work to continue to achieve this goal. It shall be questioned by the Workers' Party. I think the political debate, the political results that we can achieve here in this Chamber, will be much better if we manage to act constructively towards each other, if we do not polarise without reason but actually listen to each other, listen to each other's views, listen to each other's experiences in order to achieve the best results. The working party, which says they want to be a constructive opposition party, can eventually try to be constructive. There is today a high level of HMS in Norwegian petroleum activity, but the ambition that we are going to be world leaders is also an important signal to the industry because with that signal it means that the daily work has to go a long way to continuously improve safety. Fortunately, this government has two thoughts in its head at once – it is actually possible. Once you have it, you will find that it is possible to have a high focus on both HMS and costs. Both of these things can be in the spotlight. And why should both of these things stand up? Of course, one is because of the health, environment and safety of employees at work, and the other is that this should be safe, competitive jobs that are sustainable for the future. I would believe that a party that considers itself to be heavy and responsible would be involved in such thinking. So it's not like one of them is competing the other – here we have to work at both levels, and the government's ambition for security is completely clear and solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e253	Interpellant addresses the search for health, environmental and safety work on a Norwegian base. Similar to other HMT work, this is very important. Oil and gas extraction is a major part of Norway's overall economy and generates annual revenues for Norway. The activity level in Norwegian socket has increased in recent years from an already high level of investment in oil and gas business, which has given rise to record high levels of investment in oil and gas business. These investments have come both as a result of the market and of the framework conditions granted by Norwegian Governing Authorities. At times of very high activity levels, and with pressure on capacity in different joints, the risk of accidents may also increase. According to the Petroleum Control Department, serious injuries on the Norwegian base have shown a positive trend over the last few years, while security-critical barriers, as they are mentioned in Prop. 1 S for 2014-2015, on the other hand, has shown that there are challenges to both industry level and devices. Occurrence of offshore both nationally and internationally has revealed dramatic negative consequences both in the event of loss of human life and in the event of damage to the external environment. Therefore, HMT work in the oil and gas sector is so important, and this is a common understanding. Similar to skilled professionals, the tripartite cooperation and framework conditions from the board of directors to the development of the HMT are also involved. Interpellants of the ‘tends to move from democratic to more authoritarian governance and leadership ideals, where the company benefits more than before from the right of governance rather than from cooperation with the organisations’. Yes, I have also thought in these paths at several conditions when I have registered news about changes in the company in spite of expressed resistance from trades. Equally full: as politicians, we have to put our trust in the fact that the Petroleum Authority concentrates its resources on what they see as the most risky, and then we have to allow the funds for this important work done by the Petroleum Authority on behalf of all parties. Over the last few years, peer review has prioritised follow-up to hired workers as a result of their increased risk exposure, while at the same time they are less provided for follow-up and organisation. Now I am not the one who knows oil and gas industry the best, but a general trajectory against HMT in Norwegian working life is the extent of hired labour. Such workers work on contracts with a fixed length and will never be able to provide the same protection against potential risks as permanent ones. That is why we in this House must not blind ourselves to the objective of liberalisation which is constantly being pursued in different areas of the labour market. Fixed addition – where the degree of organisation is high – is a good basis for the HMT work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e277	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing an important issue and for raising an absolutely necessary debate. Security shall be a characteristic of all parts of Norwegian working life. That means we have to have a special vigilance where the risk can be greater. Therefore, it is incredibly positive to hear the Council of State stating that the Norwegian petroleum sector is still to be world leader in the HMS. Nevertheless, it is such that trusted people tell us about a certain concern, a new concern, related to just health, the environment and safety. It is because experiences and concrete experience from their working day, precisely that diet-benefit thinking puts saving ahead of safety. This applies, inter alia, to: where necessary, the purchase of equipment such as lifeboats. Several trade unions express some concern in these days about tripartite cooperation and how it works. This is also the case on Norwegian pedestal and for trust elected in industry. Good tripartite cooperation is essential for a good and safe working life. The Council of State states that Norway should be fully at the forefront in terms of health, environment and safety. How will the Council of State ensure good tripartite cooperation so that that objective is still achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e288	In this context, it is important to talk about capacity and competence on a Norwegian base, these two are closely linked. As politicians, we need to make sure that our education system delivers both quality and quantity, in order to talk about skilled workers and engineers in a rather formal way. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned about the recruitment of offshore workers. Lack of skilled professionals can in good times lead to a pay spiral that goes off the shaft, in order to use an unparliamentary expression. It also leads to more imports of labour, by personnel, from other places than Scandinavia. In our small country, we are dependent on labour immigration, but on the base, language difficulties are now becoming an HMS challenge. Some companies use English as their main language, which can quickly lead to misunderstandings and confusion. The Labour Party considers that the Norwegian language should apply on a Norwegian base. But then the low recruitment also has implications in bad times. In Bergen's Official Journal yesterday, several crew companies helped to shed light on the serious situation in the oil and gas industry. Companies report record low levels of new employment in the industry, and many are also applying to other industries because of the uncertainty that is now being experienced along the coast. One of the crew members who spoke out yesterday came up with a particularly dangerous situation description. It is claimed that it is in maintenance and modification that slows down in the industry. This is serious and can in the long term be an HMS challenge that the Council of State and the Grand Duchy must be aware of. In my county, Hordaland, the number of unemployed engineers has doubled in the last year. According to Nav, most of them come from oil-related activities. The downsizings started to a large extent when Statoil announced an investment cut of 30 billion. kr. Since then, the oil price has been falling down, which also does not help the situation. Nav believes that the increase in vacant engineers will soon spread to other occupational groups. When so many engineers lose the job, it indicates that the number of projects were out. Once the engineers have completed their design, the projects will be produced and, since fewer projects are designed, less production, i.e. more unemployed people in the construction, construction and industrial sectors will be in the long run. The NITO trade union is also concerned about the speed of these downsizing processes we are now seeing. In some cases, only 10 to 12 days elapse between notices of resignations and cancellations. In many cases, many people are dismissed at once, and the trustees are concerned that when so many are cancelled in such a short time, they do not get good enough processes. Therefore, there is a real concern about whether those who have been expelled are really pervasive and whether the selection process has objectives. In addition, NITO says that they have never had as high a number of ongoing cases and lawsuits from their members as this year. This draws a picture of a mildly said nervous situation. I hope the Council of State will take the signals from this debate and go through its entire instrument to remedy the decline. We cannot allow fluctuations in the oil price and cost cuts in the industry to lead to labour conflicts, undercapacity in the long term and, in the worst case, to a weakened HMS work on the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e307	I would say that no industry in Norway has as strong a focus on HMS work as the petroleum industry. I was so lucky that this summer I had to spend a whole week with the industry through an intensive program with Statoil. Part of this included an offshore visit to the Troll B platform. Here I got a completely unique insight into the industry's HMS work in practice. After that experience, I concluded that many industries in Norway could have had much to learn from the safety work in this industry. It is a matter of course that the HMS focus should be strong in this sector. Many of those working here are far from the country and have their working day and leisure time on board installations where there is a significant risk of production. Then it was just to be lacking that safety assessments and HMS were not a clear priority. Let there be no doubt: Norway shall be the world leader in the HMS in the petroleum sector. We already have one of the most stringent legislation in the world, and the preparedness available in the petroleum sector also leads to a very good overall safety along the Norwegian coast. Examples are the fact that industry-related preparedness has been provided in the event of accidents and rescue operations not linked to industry activity. It is true, as has been said here today, that the industry today is facing a tougher economic everyday life and has to cut costs. That being said, both companies and trade unions have been aware that such cost cuts should not be at the expense of health, the environment and safety. That's a prerequisite as well I'm going to base it. There is a broad political consensus that we should be the best in the world at HMS in the petroleum sector. The Council of State has today reaffirmed it for Stortinget. Then it's simply sad that the largest opposition party in the Storting is trying to draw a scare picture here today that the government does not take this work seriously, and does not share the broad political consensus on this. I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e321	I want to thank you for a very good debate. I think it's good that we can be some people that the cooperation arenas offshore and the work here has produced good results. For the past 10–15 years, cooperation between employers and employees has been better. It is a common perception that cooperation is developing away from a climate characteristic of too much mistrust and conflict and of dialogue-based communication, the signs of mutual respect and the desire to find good solutions. Tripartite arenas also lead to better knowledge sharing and professionalisation of the parties and are an important contribution to a high level of safety in the oil and gas industries. In summary, there is no doubt that good cooperation has been very important and has led to a common perception of the functioning of HMT work. It is important that good cooperation and follow-up at the central level are followed up by corresponding cooperation in individual enterprises, by local trade unions and by employers. Equally important is that authorities do not lower the default for what is good HMT practice. In this context, I can't help but stop wondering about the reactions of the government party when it comes to the wording that we should be world-leading. The wording was included in the allocation letter from the Stoltenberg government. Some of Eriksson's first government councillors are taking away the wording. Then you have to understand that this creates reactions, not only in the opposition, but also among those added to the sector. We want to know why, we want an answer, and we need to be able to get an answer to that without representatives from the government party standing here on this pulpit almost bitter and insulting and should the Labour Party in order to be a little constructive party. One should rather be happy that the Workers' Party has contributed to clearing up the unclear government itself. With all the challenges ahead that could potentially challenge the HMT situation, it is absolutely crucial that politicians are clear. We have to make demands on security, we have to ensure strong supervisory arrangements and sit in the driver's seat to steer developments in the right direction. I hope we can be quite a few that it is not acceptable to cut the HMT to save money, not in bad times either. I would like to end by challenging the Council of State to reintroduce the wording that Norway should be world leader within the HMT on the base, in order to clear out any doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e330	Let me first refer to a fact that I think we all in this room should be proud of, and that is that the major accident indicators go down, the situation is better than ever, we're at the lowest level. It tells us that the health, environmental and safety work done offshore has been very high priority. There is a very important work to be done, and it will continue to be done. So I have to say that I think it's a little bit of a shame that you shouldn't be believed in what you're saying from this pulpit, that the government's ambition, what we're governing, what we're assuming, is that we're going to be world leaders in health, environmental and safety. There is no one who disagrees with it, there has been something that a total accumulation has been fixed over several years, and that one stands behind it. And you still want to do that in the future. So it's like following developments in the oil sector closely in terms of employment. We're also following the situation that's going on with downboarding. So there's also a fact that I think we have to take over: 2012 and 2013 were the top years in Norwegian offshore, it's never been higher activity. The activity fluctuates in the different industries, it has always done, and it will do so in the future. Is there anything that is 100 pst? Sure, then it's that things will go up and down. And then it's important to create a good forward-looking policy that makes downhills as possible and as short as possible. It adds this government up to. Then I'm challenged to ensure good tripartite cooperation. We have good tripartite cooperation. A good tripartite collaboration is in my head – and I think it concerns most heads – that one sits down as equivalent actors and partners and discusses the different challenges, how to further develop Norwegian working life in the future. That doesn't mean you have to agree on everything, but that means you have to sit down on the same arena as equivalent parties, have equivalent discussions and bring the guidelines together. It's very clear to this government, I want to be clear on the future – do not discriminate against anyone, but treat everyone equally. It's the best form of tripartite cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e341	So the debate is on case No. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e355	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e362	In 2003, the Children’s Convention, with the two additional protocols at that time, was incorporated as part of Norwegian law, with precedence over other legislation in the event of conflict between the rules. The first and second additional protocols concern children in armed conflicts and the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. The inclusion of children’s rights in Norway, which was already better than in many other countries in the world. We have the Children's Ombudsman, we have the Civil Ombudsman, but we also have a family policy that helps to ensure that children's rights are properly respected. The Third Additional Protocol to the Convention on Children’s Individual Right of Appeal to the United Nations Children’s Committee. The Third Additional Protocol was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 2011 and signed on 28 February 2012. The Additional Protocol entered into force on 14 April of this year. Then it was ratified by ten countries. The document from the Left that we are dealing with today asks the government to present a case on Norwegian accession to the third supplementary protocol. If we go back a little bit in time, the government asked for a unanimous increase in 2012 to make an investigation that makes benefits and disadvantages visible by ratifying the supplementary protocol, this by spring 2013. That government did it. Lawyer Frode Elgesem was asked to carry out a legal analysis of the benefits and disadvantages, and he handed it over to the government in June 2013. This was sent out for consultation with the deadline of 18 September last year. It's now approx. 14 months ago. It has, in my opinion, been enough time to process the material and present a case to the Stortinget. The representative proposal from the Left has been sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his opinion and comments. In his reply to the Committee, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses that he will see the question of the accession to the Third Additional Protocol to the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in conjunction with the corresponding Additional Protocols to the Conventions on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights respectively. I think it would be okay for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to elaborate on this in his statement here, in particular because he also says in his letter that he will look at developments in the practices of the United Nations Committees in individual complaints before he files a case for the Stortinget. Now the Foreign Minister says in his letter that he is going to file a case for the Storting, and we're going to believe him in that. Today the Stortinget decides to give the government a deadline to file such a case. While the Left proposal of 21 June 2013, which was also adopted in the context of the review of the revised national budget, used the term ‘fastest’, we are now asking the government to file a case during 2015. There is a large majority who are behind the vote to give the government a deadline during 2015 – it also includes the government parties, which I believe is a strength, and for which I would like to thank the government parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee. The minority vote for a shorter deadline. I would like to appeal from the Chair here to the Left and the SV to support the vote subsidiaryly, so that this decision actually becomes unanimous. I therefore recommend the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e385	The legal certainty of children shall be ensured. It's a subject on which many people are concerned, and we see a great deal of commitment to the UN Children's Convention's Third Additional Protocol on Individual Complaints. Norway shall be a leading global force for the rights of children and for human rights. The first 15-year report on human rights is presented in the autumn, and Norway’s main contribution to the UN General Assembly in 2014 also focused on human rights. Human rights are the third pillar of the UN, and Norway is working to strengthen it. The government has proposed to increase the MR bet by 30 million. kr 2015, as inter alia may reinforce the work on children’s rights internationally through several measures, including: through international support for the promotion of the Children’s Ombudsman Scheme and support for vulnerable groups in society, such as children and persons with disabilities and religious and sexual minorities. The government is now also taking a global leadership role to ensure children's right to go to school, with a particular focus on girls and children in war and conflict. Global health is a high-recorded initiative, and child and motherhood are given a significant boost. There is no doubt that Norway will have a clear voice when human rights are violated. Norway is one of the largest economic contributors of the United Nations, both absolute and relative. Through the UN, Norway has contributed to almost 50 pst. decrease in children who die before the age of five between 1990 and 2012. The central role of the United Nations in Norwegian foreign policy is not doubted. At the same time, Norway should be able to criticise the UN where necessary and continue to be a driver in making the UN more effective and results-oriented. The third Additional Protocol to the Children's Convention entered into force in April of this year, as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur, and 14 of the 193 UN Member States have so far ratified the Optional Additional Protocol. Our Nordic neighbouring countries, such as Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Sweden, have not yet incorporated the additional protocol. In Sweden, we see signals that work will begin, and it is worth following it and reaping experience from it. We see that many countries have the same discussions that Norway now has. The Foreign Minister’s letter to the Foreign Affairs Committee dated 16 May of this year points out that there are some key issues that have not been adequately assessed in Lawyer Elgesem’s investigation into the benefits and disadvantages of any Norwegian accession to the Additional Protocol, such as: the risk of increasing the legalisation of policy issues and the related deterioration of the scope of action of the Norwegian authorities and whether the composition and functioning of the Committee is appropriate to ensure important principles of legal certainty. These and other fundamental issues are still not sufficiently clarified, and benefits and disadvantages should be thoroughly investigated before a case is brought before the Stortinget. The Foreign Minister’s reply refers to the aim of carrying out an investigation of the benefits and disadvantages of a possible accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Furthermore, it should be noted that developments in the practices of the UN Committee on Individual Complaints should be considered before the case is brought before the Stortinget. I attended the Red Barna's rights lunch yesterday morning. Kirsten Sandberg is the head of the United Nations Committee on Children's Rights, and I asked her in the debate on how many issues they have so far dealt with after 14 countries have now ratified the Additional Protocol. Sandberg replied that the committee had had one case up, but that this was rejected because the relationship occurred before the ratification. I further asked Sandberg about how she viewed the practice of dealing with matters, and she replied that the practice the committee would probably put itself on, would be to review and check the proceedings of the case in question. I agree that it is important to conduct a thorough investigation of fundamental questions in this matter. That is why I support the majority in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy and that the Stortinget asks the government to present a case on the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of Children during 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e408	This proposal is strange. A unanimous bigotry agrees that this matter should be assessed, and then there are two parties who believe that one does not need to investigate this, and who in a morally superior way believe that they should judge the rest of the Storting by claiming that they are a little more moral and a little more good than the rest of us. To me, it's a vulgar argument that's trying to trump the debate. The third supplementary protocol takes power from the Storting, from the people elected, removes us from the People's Government and transfers it to the UN by 18 experts in the Children's Committee, who are to meet four times a year. Is that how we want to govern Norway, ever away from transferring more authority to the UN, to the EU, to the EEA? Is that how we're going to rule? What is the point of democracy, of going out to the people to get support, if we do not have the opportunity to have different views on democracy, on different elections, on different views on whole party programmes? What is the point of adopting party programmes if we can nevertheless go to the UN to get the truth and to implement policies? Of course, we can continue this process that we have done in recent years, but then we can just as well put down the Stortinget, because then the government can carry out the policy. We're going to have different positions in this hall. Some people may think that we should have a more stringent asylum policy; some think that we should have a more liberal asylum policy, but what is going on is ‘all the power in this room’. It is therefore strange that the Left is behind this proposal, where they say that all power should be removed from this room and transferred to a body that is internationally superior and that can trump decisions in the Storting. In NOW 2003:19, power and democracy, there is a warning against policy-making, but we continue to do so, for example. When it came to changing the Constitution, there were individual parties here who wanted rights-based health care, knowledge and school. If you have it in a right by law, what is the point of sitting here and discussing something that has already been adopted by the Constitution, the United Nations, the EEA or other arrangements? There should be less supranational governance and more national governance. Then it's giving the Storting more power and authority, not the opposite. In reality, this additional protocol means that children decide on asylum policy as long as adults are able to hide in Norway and have children with them. The longer the children are here, the more willing this Children's Committee will deal with a possible complaint to the UN. What you do is reward crimes in the name of moral superiors. It is a reprehensible policy to encourage people to hide in Norway and push children in front of them. Yes, we probably experience sad fates, but the starting point is that the parents break Norwegian law, and then at least SV and Left should go in to tighten up, so that we take hold of those who hide and break Norwegian law. But I don't see any suggestions. I don't see any suggestions that say, let's go after those who try to hide, those who don't try to identify, and those who enter Norway illegally. I don't see any suggestion about it, but I see two parties trying to stand up for the rest of us, and I'm convinced that the Left, with the Skei Grande, will come up here and rise above me. I don't think so. I actually don't think anyone should feel superior to others and moral superiors, all to win some votes and get the support of some NGOs around. It is a reprehensible policy and a reprehensible way of debate. Now this is to be investigated. It comes back to Stortinget in a responsible way, and then we see how much is taken away from democracy. Had it been another process, which Left had not wanted the United Nations to override, the United Nations would not have played the role that SV and Left had wanted, then there would have been no suggestion. But that's what it does now when it benefits the left and the left, which are very small parties in Norway, they only make up a few percent. They will give the power to the United Nations, so that they can thwart the great majority of the Biggest. It's not a good policy, it's not a morally superior policy, it's taking democracy out of the big room where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e423	It wasn't the idea to jump after the Wirkola I experienced right now. I must say that I am not aware of the initiative that has come from the Left, which is based on being superior. On the other hand, I experience a very good initiative from the Left. This is a matter that they have wanted to make progress both in the previous growing-up period and now, and I want to thank Terje Breivik and Trine Skei Grande for the good initiative that has been taken. But I would also like to thank the case-speaker, because I feel that the main result of the Committee's work on this setting is that all parties are now asking the Government to present to the Stortinget a case on the third supplementary protocol to the Children's Convention during 2015. The government has now been given a clear time frame for further details on the case and on when the Storting will be brought to trial. That's good. It obliges the government. The size will be on the table next year. We are pleased, as we consider the Children's Convention to be important, and have a positive attitude to the supplementary protocol on a complaint subject. It is also important because the current time frame of government is linked to the fact that we also have the consequences of applying for a similar appeal procedure to the Convention on the Rights of the Disabled. This is not what is now done. In addition, we can evaluate these two additional protocols in conjunction with a third one. the person concerned with the creation of a complaint body for the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. From the Christian People's Party's side, we now expect the Stortinget to have an overall assessment of these three additional voluntary protocols next year. It makes a more holistic approach possible, and it is important for all of us who are concerned about how human rights should be extended. Together with others, in the Christian People's Party, we have been a driver for changing governments to move forward in the national treatment of these matters. In autumn 2012, we reached a cross-political agreement to ask the government of Stoltenberg to make rapid progress on benefits and disadvantages by ratifying the third additional protocol to the Children's Convention. According to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice, the 2013 hearing round showed that the individual consequences were not adequately elucidated. A joint committee now shows that a thorough impact assessment is an important basis for the Storting to address the various aspects of the case. Among the issues of primary importance are the consequences of building up the rights of appeal to different UN bodies, even when decisions of a more striking nature are made in national elected bodies and decisions in national courts. Norway shall be a transitory country in the field of human rights. We incorporated everything in 2003 into the Children's Convention and gave him primacy in Norwegian legislation. He cannot be legally guaranteed any more. The Court of Appeal has also been incorporated. If there is doubt that Norwegian authorities fulfil their obligations under the Children’s Convention, the proceedings may be brought before Norwegian courts. In addition, Barneombodet and the Civilomboderman act as important monitoring bodies. Legally, the Children’s Convention stands strongly in Norway. A legal system will only help us a little bit on the way. The most important campaign venue to improve our children's rights is therefore the daily political priorities. Resuming neglect over many years in the development of child protection is one of several challenges to address here. That is why we must raise the concerns of our children, not only in terms of big business and government, but also in the state policy and in our municipalities and urban areas. This fight for children does not take place in a vacuum. At the crossroads, the priority of the children must be to meet other interests. Children do not have the right to vote, but we have a duty to give them a good upbringing, because the children are the most important thing we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e436	It was perhaps surprising that this matter weighed the great feelings of the pulpit, at least as things stand today. We will come back to the content and, in turn, to the agreement to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. At least I'm not asked to take the other debate today. It has recently been a growing focus on children's dishes in Norway, too, and we must be able to say that much positive has happened in Norway for the past 25 years after we joined the Children's Convention, after we had a children's office, and after we have received legislation and legislation that has given us a family policy that takes care of our children much stronger than it did when some of us joined our children's shoes. The same thing has happened in a number of other countries. The fact that one has ratified the Children's Convention and approved it in its law has made children's courts appear on the agenda in a number of countries. UNICEF has a lot of evidence that the situation of children has improved, that is the number of people living below the poverty line, or the availability of water and food, although many still lack it, and access to school, where Norway also makes a great deal of effort, as in many other areas, and supports it. And we've seen that there's a decline in infant mortality. It's a positive development globally and a positive development in Norway. When it comes to the issue of Norway joining the Third Additional Protocol on the right of individuals to complain to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, it will further strengthen its rights and give the possibility of individual complaints to the United Nations Children’s Committee. On a general basis, the centre party is skeptical in granting to various supranational bodies the right to review decisions taken by national elected bodies and national courts. The Children’s Convention requires a clear assessment of the child’s best interests. This may be a different approach to this complaint than to other UN individual complaint mechanisms. For this reason, we are today together with the broad majority who ask the government to file a case for the Stortinget on the third supplementary protocol on individual complaints during 2015. It is important to get all the consequences on the table before Stortinget makes the decision. It is important to see several of these complaints in the context. It is therefore reasonable that we come to the Foreign Minister's request for time to properly prepare the case. Then we get a case for Stortinget in 2015, and then we're going to take the discussion about the content of this and how we're going to best meet what I think we have a common wish, that the kids in Norway should feel good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e449	I think this was a little liberating, because what has frustrated me in this debate is that I have not got anyone to explain why they are against. I have experienced Karin Woldseth from the Progress Party standing in this room and driving Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre so hard that there was almost a hole in the floor below him, because he tried to get away from the ugly questions about why he wouldn't ratify – for there was no answer as to why you wouldn't ratify. I've seen Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide stand here and ask the same questions to Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre, about why you wouldn't ratify, and no one would answer it. So that's why it's liberating when you say it: it's because you don't want to treat asylum children according to the requirements of the Children's Convention. That's why you don't want to ratify. That's the reason that was presented here today. That was the reason that was used, that this should not interfere with Norwegian legislation. Then we simply disagree – but then the cats are out of the bag, then the arguments are put on the table, then we know what we're actually discussing. It's clear that you're weakening the space for action by signing international conventions. That's the point. That is the point both in Norway and in all the other countries that we are asking to ratify international conventions and uphold women's rights, children's rights and human rights in general; that is the point of human rights. The point is that the rights are related to you as a human being, no matter how a majority rules with you, that you actually have some rights as a human being to express yourself and not to be tortured, regardless of whether it's a majority that exposes you to it. Most dictators probably had a majority in a referendum, but that doesn't mean that the dictatorship itself is right. The inherent power of human rights lies in the rights of the individual and that the individual cannot be ruled by a majority. That's why the Left is always going to fight for human rights to enter the Constitution and for us to ratify international conventions. That's why it was actually the Left that, as soon as we got a Minister of Justice, implemented the entire Children's Convention into Norwegian law, so that it was not just a separate convention, but actually a part of all Norwegian legislation. That job Odd Einar Dørum did. As soon as we get close to that power, we'll be able to do it again. Of course, it weakens the space for action. Of course it hits us in. But claiming that everything is perfect for children in Norway, claiming that we have legislation that makes everything okay, is not okay when we see the headlines we see about bullying in Norway. It's not okay when kids kill themselves because no adult helped them, nor is it okay when kids starve to death because we don't have a system. Then we can boast as much as we want from Norwegian legislation on the child's side, but it is not good enough. This may help to strengthen legislation in this area. This can help move the power from here to the children who need that power, the power that is about having some inherent rights, and that the children's rights should be stronger. That's why we've been for it. That is why, as we said in committee, we are going to vote subsidiaryly for this proposal, but we have adopted it before. We adopted it under the previous government as well. Then some of us were excited that we had adopted it, until the government parties went out and said that they had done it with jug cross. Now we're going to decide again, and now I'm actually hoping that we'll get a case, sail if we got a statement today from the pulpit why someone is against it, and that's because someone is against the kids having these rights. I hope we get a proper case on the table from the government, sail if the government has representatives in this room that express what they are saying. I refer to the proposals of the Left and the Socialist Left in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e468	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e471	The core of the Children's Convention is that children are small people with their own lives and their own dishes, also to be heard and to be able to follow up the dishes. It must be important to take into account that the Children's Convention is part of Norwegian law today, so we do not discuss it. But it is my and SV's clear opinion that it is also right to ratify the third additional protocol on an individual right of appeal. It is also my and SV's clear opinion that we should be able to do that quickly, and March 2015 is a reasonable deadline. I'll give you a brief reason for that -- there's two reasons. One reason is that this is very well prepared, highly analysed over many years. The arguments for and against are well-known, and I think one might say that there is not a lack of insight, but a lack of unity that has been the reason we haven't ratified so far. It's completely possible to do it quickly. So the second reason: the main reason why we're going to ratify the third supplementary protocol is not that it will give children in Norway increased rights – it will give children in Norway some increased rights as well – but that we should be showing leadership in that way that we help other countries ratify, so that it will give children in many other countries considerably increased rights. If we're going to contribute to it, we can't be a successor, we have to be a leader. It might argue that we could have already, but at least one might now say that we should be as quick as possible. We make that contribution best by quickly ratifying ourselves and having an offensive voice in all forums where this is discussed internationally. We and the Left are behind a common proposal, but we're going to vote in a subsidiary way for what it's a lot of plurality, namely that there's going to be a case in the next year. After all, it's a good solution, which allows us to discuss the matter. It may be a little strange that the small minority should have a little discussion up here on the speaker's chair, but yet I have to make a few comments to the representative Skei Grande's posts. I agree in many ways, but I thought it might have gone a little long. Now I am not Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre, but I am reasonably sure that he and other representatives of the Labour Party would not recognize themselves in the comparison with the post that was clearly held here in the Chamber before. I've been discussing these questions with many from the different parties, and it's a relevant discussion to ask yourself questions and to determine to what extent one is going to decide internationally that is binding, also down to what level of detail it is wise to do it, in what area it is wise to do it, and in what area it is not wise to do it. My experience of it is that this is what the discussion is going on. I think that's the discussion the government is now having between and between the different departments, and that's the one I know that other parties have. It may be a little untimely to say that the reason someone was critical of this was that there was a Norwegian asylum debate. That there's someone who thinks it is, I'm not in doubt, I understand, and it's been well documented here before today, but I think it was an untimely comparison. So it's real balances. But my point of view and my point of view is that the big picture is that getting justice can follow up, is a strengthening of democracy, because it gives those who have little power and influence, the ability to advance the rights and thus stand stronger. Since we have questions, for example. link with human rights or other issues that need to be resolved across borders, it would often be right to grant such types of rights to humans. However, there are the types of supranational arrangements or bindings that may still be so unruly or improperly binding, or will place such a strong obstacle on national policies that it would not be right. In this case, SV thinks it would be right to ratify the third supplementary protocol, and so we want to support that one does it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e486	I feel that there is a broad consensus in this room about the importance of Norway as a driver of children’s rights internationally, and that we should go ahead with a good example also in Norway. The representatives of Trine Skei Grande and Terje Breivik propose to the Stortinget to ask the Government to submit a case concerning the conclusion of the Third Additional Protocol to the Children's Convention. As the representatives refer to, children’s rights are already guaranteed at a high level in Norway. This also applies if comparisons are made with those countries that have ratified the additional protocol so far. The Children's Convention is incorporated as Norwegian law with precedence over other law. The rights of children were further strengthened by their recent inclusion in the Constitution. Children in Norway have the right to complain, and our courts have the opportunity to review compliance with the Children’s Convention. In addition, we have strong and independent monitoring mechanisms. Things are also not perfect in Norway, which the representative Skei Grande was in, but we have, together, a good system to protect children's rights. From this point of view, it would also be easy for Norway to join an international complaint mechanism for children. However, membership of the Convention on Individual Complaints, which has been discussed by several representatives, raises broader and fundamental issues related to the distribution of power and democracy. The consultation round following the investigation carried out in 2013 shows that such questions were not adequately assessed. Firstly, this concerns the risk of increasing the legalisation of policy issues, which may weaken the scope of action of the Norwegian authorities. This could be done, for example, by: issues relating to economic, social and cultural rights, where there is talk of allocating the resources of society. Furthermore, the Ministry of Justice points out that a substantial part of the foreign policy is politically determined. Adherence to the Protocol could transfer powers from government to the Children's Committee. Secondly, there is considerable uncertainty about the handling of complaints by the Children’s Committee. The Advocate General points out that the Children's Committee was not set up to pursue infringement cases, i.e. Convention infringements, but to monitor the progress of the States in the realization of Convention rights and that this role is the basis for the composition of that Committee. Can we then be sure that the composition and working methods of the Children's Committee are suitable for ensuring important principles of legal certainty such as counter-dictation and the right of all parties to be heard? Can we be sure that the Committee will have sufficient knowledge of Norwegian society and see the overall picture as well as legislators and national courts? What we know is that the committee's proceedings will necessarily be more limited than those available in Norway. In order to contribute to increasing legal certainty and to strengthen the Committee’s treatment of individual complaints, Norway will address the need to strengthen the composition and working methods of the UN Committees on Human Rights. The same questions of principle are relevant in the assessment of possible access to other appeal procedures. These are the complaints under the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. An investigation of benefits and disadvantages has already been carried out by the possible accession to the Additional Protocols on individual rights of appeal relating to economic, social and cultural rights. The government now wants to have an investigation of a possible agreement also to the complaints under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities carried out before we make a final assessment. This will ensure a broader decision-making base and an overall approach to the three additional protocols. Promoting and ensuring the rights of children at national and international level is a high priority. We believe, however, that in this case a thorough assessment of the fundamental issues raised by a vote in favour of an international appeal procedure is necessary. The complaints procedures for children have recently entered into force. It would be desirable to look at developments in the Committee's practice in complaints before presenting a case to the Stortinget. I have noticed what is proposed by the Stortinget, and of course I will deal with it and meet the deadlines set by the Stortinget in the proposal that comes up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e514	I noticed what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in conclusion. I also understand that the ministry and the government need time to go through this matter properly, but I want to add that the question of ratifying this third supplementary protocol has been up in this room several times, and that in the last two years more decisions have been taken. In June 2013, the government was actually asked to file a case – ‘snowest’ was used as an expression in 2013 – and it was part of the revised national budget when we took decisions there. Today, it will be decided unanimously – after the Left and SV vote in favour of their primary proposal – to ask the government to file a case during 2015. Although the Minister of Foreign Affairs will see this in the context of two additional protocols, I now assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will respond clearly to this in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e521	It is clear that, as I also said from the pulpit, I will of course deal with a decision, Roman decisions, in the Stortinget. We will, on the basis of the decision taken today, initiate the work necessary to deal with the consequences that a ratification of such an additional protocol will have for Norway, and we must also see it in the context of any ratification of protocols relating to the rights of disabled persons. There are many dilemmas in this case. I think what we agree on is that it is important to stand on both internationally and nationally for children's rights. I think there's a burning commitment among all the representatives of the Stortinget for that. Now there is an issue of appropriateness: are we going to ratify this supplementary system that will bring some of these decisions into the United Nations Children's Committee, or not? Is it premature, or are we prepared to do what some countries have chosen to do, and others are not?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e528	I have a short and straightforward and simple question, I think. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs have any comments on Mr Tybring-Gjedde's comments, which he made earlier today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e535	As I just said, I think everyone in this room -- as I experience it -- has a burning commitment to children's rights both outside and at home. This is also one of the most important things for me. If there's something I'm really burning for, there's a child. Children who suffer, children who get hurt – everything from bullying or not being treated properly, to not being educated – are at the heart of what both the government and I are concerned about. I think that must be the basis for this discussion. Then I feel that it is a discussion whether it is appropriate to proceed to a rapid ratification of this supplementary protocol before we have seen how the Children's Committee deals with matters that are brought before it. We didn't draw any final conclusions here. We need some more time and will come back to Stortinget with an assessment of this within the deadlines set by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e542	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e545	Let there be no doubt: I would go to war for the rights of all children and the legal certainty of children. The question of ratifying the supplementary protocol is whether we believe that children’s legal certainty and rights are strengthened by having an international complaint institution. It has to be assessed to a much greater extent. This can actually, I think, result in other relationships as well. That's why I think that when the debate starts, we're all advocating that children should have greater opportunities to complain, to strengthen legal certainty and rights. But indirectly, it also means that we, as the highest body in Norway, have failed. That means that we have actually not done enough in national law and law to strengthen the legal certainty of all children. In fact, I think that should be the main focus. After 17 years at Stortinget, there has been no lack of intentions, of framework proposals or resources in simply strengthening children’s rights and looking at what is actually the best of children in a number of areas. I have participated in two or maybe three revisions of the Norwegian Children's Protection Act. On the other hand, there is a huge hole – among other things: in the case of children’s right to two parents and the right to know biological origin. We also see, as the representative Skei Grande points out, that the bullying is not working. So it means indirectly that when you now want another complaint body — this time internationally — it simply means that we feel that we have not been done enough in Norway to bring about the necessary legal certainty for children. There I'm willing to go all the way to get something that's good for the future. I would like to discuss, investigate and see whether an international complaint body will in fact strengthen children’s rights in Norway and internationally, but, for the time being, my understanding of this is that only processes should be monitored in the individual countries that join. I end by saying – again: this is also about democracy and who we believe the most in making decisions on behalf of children. I still believe that the Norwegian increase will be able to take the right decisions to strengthen children's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e558	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e572	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to six lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e581	In this case, there is an almost unanimous committee that has put forward its position, with the exception of a comment from SV, which I expect they will explain for themselves. This shows that there is a widespread uprising in the United Kingdom about Norway's relationship with the United Nations and the government's commitment to the United Nations. It is joyful and blends into the sequence of a long and good tradition in this hall. The Committee's work and my responsibilities as rapporteur-in-Office have been simple, and I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. The Committee has found reasons to raise some issues. The main themes of the 68th UN General Assembly were the decision of the Security Council to destroy chemical weapons in Syria, the Middle East peace process, the UN Millennium Goals, the post-2015 Development Agenda, the High Level Forum for Sustainable Development and the Arms Trade Agreement, ATT. An overall committee refers to the importance of the June 2013 Security Council being able to arrive at a more effective response to the civil war in Syria. The agreement reached on Security Council Resolution 2118 paved the way for the work of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and the Dismantling and Destruction of Syria’s Chemical Weapons Stocks, an operation provided by Norway with both transport ships and military escorts, which later, in 2013, led to the Nobel Peace Prize for OPCW. Despite the wide disagreement on Syria's responsibility for the civil war and the abuses that have affected the civilian population in that country, Resolution 2118 of the Security Council also opened up a contribution to the political process through Resolution 2139 of the Security Council of February 2014. This demanded a halt to all violence and human rights violations by all parties to the civil war in Syria. However, we see that the civil war has spread to Iraq, where the UN also plays a role in halting ISIL and their finances. There is a broad cross-political will and agreement that Norway should be a driver to ensure that all the UN's Millennium Goals are achieved by 2015. Norway has taken special responsibility for the Millennium Goal No. 4 and 5 to reduce infant mortality and maternal mortality and to improve the health of pregnant and pregnant women. The active role of Norway in the work of the United Nations for the poor of the world shall be a high priority. Norway’s leadership in financing for development is an example of this. The legitimacy and ability of the UN to fulfil its core functions as an international actor depends on the experience of the organisation as relevant and effective. Real strengthening of the UN requires reform and modernisation of nearly all levels of the organisation. The UN must also be able to respond to new and more complex types of challenges and crises, as we see in the four level 3 crises, in Syria, Iraq, the Central African Republic and South Sudan. International political stability and organisation are fundamental to meeting many of the challenges we face. Some claim that the UN's lack of action today is a matter of the will of the major powers to use the organisation and its principles. But the UN's ability to engage the multilateral system is not just a matter of political will to cooperate with the Member States. The role of the United Nations as an actor and a venue is the sum of what the Member States agree to make up the United Nations. Democracy and respect for human rights are important in themselves. It also provides the basis for societies where personal initiatives can generate growth and progress. Education for all is another important prerequisite for real participation and democracy. In order to achieve democracy and good governance, greater efforts are needed to strengthen women's civil and political participation. This is therefore one of the main priorities of the Solberg government. Any country that does not grant its women equal rights to men will never become a democracy, nor exploit its full potential for growth and development. It is regrettable that the composition of the UN Human Rights Council is still not in line with the formal criteria and requirements imposed by the commitments made by the Member States, by continuing to be treated as members by countries which systematically and severely commit abuses against their own citizens. There is no doubt that this weakens the legitimacy and effectiveness of the Council. For the Right and for this government, the UN is very important. It is the cornerstone of a foreign policy where Norway is a small nation, but a large contributor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e615	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e627	Thank you for giving us the opportunity to explain about Ebola and the threat this epidemic poses not only for West Africa but also globally. Nearly a year ago, on December 6, 2013, a two - year - old boy died in the village of Meliandou in Guinea. Right after the dead mother, then the sister and then the grandmother. It is now assumed that the two-year-old boy was a patient zero. However, it would be several months before the outbreak was recognized as it was, namely, ebola. We can't say for sure how many people have been infected or killed by Ebola since then. The number material is incomplete and uncertain. It is likely that there are large numbers of darkness, including: because many people are hesitating to visit the health care system. I saw that myself when I was visiting Liberia and Sierra Leone. However, the latest figures from the World Health Organisation, WHO, suggest that at least 13 000 people have been infected and that at least 4 960 have died of Ebola. It's not just the biggest ebola outbreak ever. It's already many times bigger than all previous outbreaks combined – and it doesn't take into account dark numbers. So far there are recorded infections in eight countries. Most cases have been in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. Common to these three countries is the lack of strong state structures and well-functioning health systems. This is also a country which, after many years of political unrest and civil war, has failed to establish stability, development and democracy in advance. Besides Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, a small number of cases have also been recorded in Spain, the United States, Mali, Nigeria and Senegal – and the case with which we are known in our own country. A little sparkle here is that in mid-October, the WHO declared that the outbreaks were over in both Nigeria and Senegal. It is difficult to say something definitely about the further development of the disease outbreak. The forecasts are alarming. Growth is still strong. In Sierra Leone and Guinea, the rate of infection remains high. In Liberia, over the last few days, we've seen a certain decrease in the number of cases. However, the picture is complex. In parts of the country, there is still a high level of infection. The United Nations objective is to control the epidemic within six to nine months. In order to achieve that objective, international efforts need to be stepped up rapidly and vigorously. In the days and weeks to come, it is therefore important that the large contributions announced by many countries — including Norway — are converted into actual ground capacity. Very many of the most important contributions in the fight against Ebola have come from the affected communities themselves, from the major humanitarian organizations, such as the Legs Without Borders and Red Cross, and from individual countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom. None of these can fully replace the UN and its specialized agencies, not least in the work now ahead of us. The Security Council's decision of 19 September to establish a UN operation to combat Ebola was therefore important. This is the first time a UN operation has been established against a health crisis. The UN Mission for Ebola Emergency Response, UNMEER, will play a central role in coordinating international efforts. UNMEREER is in the process of being constituted, with headquarters in Accra, Ghana and rural offices in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. The WHO has a central role as the UN Special Organisation for Health. They work both with UNMEER in the region and with impact and mobilization globally. Major parts of the humanitarian system have also been mobilised, such as the World Food Programme, UNICEF and the UN Humanitarian Coordination Office, OCHA. These are working to deal with the serious humanitarian consequences of the crisis. They contribute to the UN’s overall efforts in logistics, food and other emergency services. We must not underestimate the significance of this. Even before this crisis, very many people lived in the affected countries without safe access to food. The Ebola outbreak has evolved to be far more than a health crisis. After several years of positive development in the region, the contours of serious social, economic and political consequences that could hit West Africa hard. Schools and universities in Liberia have been closed since 1 August and widespread fear among the population and a worsening food situation are reported. In addition, economic activity has fallen, with the impact it has on employment and growth, and the outbreak has strengthened existing dividing lines in the population and weakened confidence in national authorities. All the necessary political progress is thus at risk. I hope that this will not now be the forgotten crisis, but that, both through these presentations today and through the work in the future, we will put in the resources needed to eradicate Ebola in West Africa. We must deal with the economic and longer-term consequences in parallel with the fight against Ebola. An important contribution here is the support of the international financial institutions. The World Bank has committed 400 million. U.S. dollars to prevent dispersal. They have also established a multiplener fund for ebola. Norway was the first contributor to the fund of 70 million. kr. The ebola response of the African Bank amounts to 220 million. US Dollar. The International Monetary Fund has approved exceptional budgetary support for Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea totalling 130 million. dollar. Norway has so far contributed 329 million. kr in earmarked funds for the ebola response. The first contribution was given to Doctor Without Borders in April. Since then we have announced new contributions several times. In addition to Doctors Without Borders, we have contributed to the Red Cross, international organisations – WHO, OCHA and the World Food Programme – the multiplier funds as well as international operations under the leadership of the UN – UNMEER – and the African Union. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has supported vaccine development through the WHO and the Research Council, and we are now assessing whether Norwegian support can contribute to faster testing of the most promising vaccine candidates during development. The Health Administration, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice have prepared a staff, transport and equipment contribution to the operation of the United Kingdom in Sierra Leone. In its statement, the Minister for Health will describe this contribution in more detail. In addition, Norway makes substantial contributions to core support for institutions and organisations that have responded to the ebola outbreak. It includes the World Bank, the African Development Bank, UNDP, UNICEF, OCHA and others. Over the years, Norway has played a leading role in reducing infant and maternal mortality and in stopping the spread of HIV and AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria — the thousand-year-olds four, five and six. Through this work, we have also been a driving force for increased efforts to strengthen health systems. We have worked to support the GAVI vaccine alliance and the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria on the health systems of the beneficiary countries. GAVI decided in 2010, following pressures from, among others: Norway, that between 15 and 25 pst. the activities of the organisation shall be directed towards health system strengthening in the recipient countries. The aid shall be granted following dialogue with the beneficiary countries and in accordance with their own plans, inter alia, for: health system strength. The Ebola outbreak underlines the importance of good health systems. It is therefore natural that there should be a discussion about how these can be strengthened, especially in countries with weak institutions. This is a discussion we are willing to take home here, but it is equally a discussion that must be conducted in the countries themselves and internationally. One of the most important tasks of the EEAS is to help Norwegian citizens abroad who need it. It also applies in this situation. We have therefore issued a travel council that advises against all trips and stays in the three most affected countries. At the same time, we have worked hard to put in place a contingency plan to assist Norwegian citizens who had to be infected by Ebola. In this work, we have cooperated closely with the upper parts of the administration, not least with the health administration and the Defence. We have also used our embassies to address the many practical questions such as: a medical evacuation involves. We will never be able to give any guarantee to people who are leaving. But we've got a good response in place to evacuate Norwegian ebola infected or ebola-sick citizens if the Health Directorate asks for it. We have also strengthened our own organization in this situation. We have appointed a Special Representative for Ebola who has a special responsibility for coordinating the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' contribution. In addition, we strengthen the embassy in Accra as necessary. The international community has spent too much time mobilising efforts against Ebola. It has made the outbreak much more extensive and serious than it would probably have been if it had been reacted before. It is important to take the discussion of why the world community underestimated the situation, and why the response was too weak and too late. We will require changes where we see that procedures, systems and organisations have failed. But everything in its time. Now we need to focus our attention on the most important thing: to prevent the epidemic from spreading further, and to help those who have already been hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e682	‘The clock ticks, the death tolls rise. We have to act, and we have to act now." Play Silje Lehne Michalsen's strong message on Monday, October 20, after being informed by Ebola, illustrates the serious health threat we are facing. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained the extent of the Ebola crisis and how the international community has mobilised to assist the affected countries. I will now follow up by explaining how we are preparing increased Norwegian efforts in the form of personnel and equipment for the three countries, how we are preparing so that voluntary Norwegian personnel can assist in the safest and safest way possible, and how we are taking action in Norway to prevent the spread of infection here. With the extent of the ebola epidemic in West Africa, we are totally dependent on the world community significantly strengthening the treatment capacity of the affected countries. So far, organizations like Doctor Without Borders and Red Cross have made a formidable effort, but that's not enough. We cannot passively look at voluntary organisations pulling away alone – Norway and other resource-intensive countries need to help scale up aid. A basic prerequisite for sending out Norwegian health professionals to respond to ebola is that we can offer them a safe framework, and that they must be properly and well treated if they are to be infected or ill. The possibility of transporting sick Nordics – especially health professionals in the field – home has therefore been a priority from the government. Priority has been given to the rapid deployment of a medical evacuation solution, while other longer-term solutions have also been assessed. We have chosen two parallel approaches in this work: we have concluded agreements with Phoenix Air and Medic Air for that type of transport. In addition, the defense has prepared a Norwegian C-130 Hercules to carry Ebola disease home as an alternative. If necessary, the Hercules machine could also be used for ebola transport within Norway. The fact that several alternatives are now available enables us to offer Norwegian health professionals who want to leave, a security of fast and safe home transport if the need arises. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has briefed on the establishment of UNMEER and how this unit will coordinate and oversee the efforts of the world community. Because the UN is so far not operational enough to benefit directly from Norwegian human and material contributions, we have concluded an agreement with the UK authorities on Norwegian contributions to increase and support their efforts in Sierra Leone. We do this because the United Kingdom has a comprehensive framework on its contribution that will ensure safety and follow-up for Norwegian personnel, while at the same time we will be able to get started relatively quickly. Included in the UK’s operation is the development of a separate treatment offer for healthcare professionals locally in Sierra Leone, which can also be used by Norwegian health professionals. However, we are still planning to transport home infected Norwegians who, after a medical assessment, have earned it. In concrete terms, we are now preparing to send four teams of up to 50 people who want to roll in a British field hospital when set up in Moyamba for a six to ten month period. Health Bergen is assigned to recruit and prepare Norwegian health professionals from its health companies for assignment in Sierra Leone. Norwegian preparation for action will be integrated with British preparation. Special training for Norwegian staff in the United Kingdom is included in these programmes, and a first group of Norwegian and British staff is taking up training in York on 13 November. In addition, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness will contribute to building housing units for health professionals to serve the hospital and the Defence Service has offered United Kingdom air transport support for the transport of equipment. Our goal is that the health care camp should be ready for use at the beginning of December, so that the first Norwegian team can start their efforts then. You might ask yourself, why not this December? The answer is that any such operation requires preparation, and in particular where framework and infrastructure are to be built from the ground up. Here we do not distinguish ourselves from Legs Without Borders or Red Cross; recruitment, logistics, training and training take time. When we first send the first Norwegian team in early December, this is because the UK's treatment camp, in which the teams are to work, is operational from then on. Norwegian health professionals have responded very positively to the call from health authorities to go down as voluntary health workers: more than 300 people have signed up so far, many with very relevant skills. In addition, Doctors Without Borders and Red Cross have marked increased attendance by people who are willing to go out. As Minister of Health and Care, I am pleased and proud that so many voluntary health workers will contribute to the efforts against Ebola. Only through significant efforts from Norway and other countries will we be able to help address, limit and eventually stop the epidemic. This brings me to the next topic: how health services in Norway work to prevent ebola outbreaks in Norway and to follow up on our country’s citizens to be infected. Health services do this in close contact with our Nordic neighbouring countries, with the EU and based on the professional advice of the World Health Organisation. One issue that has been frequently discussed in Europe is the disease prevention measures that should be taken against citizens entering and leaving West Africa. In cooperation with the World Health Organisation, European countries will contribute to the strengthening of passenger screening for departure from West Africa. This is considered to be an effective prevention measure by the World Health Organisation. In line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and the European Agency for Disease Control, Norway, like the vast majority of European countries, has decided not to introduce screening on arrival because this is considered to have a very low impact on reducing infection risk. The three countries that have introduced such arrival screening, Belgium, France and the United Kingdom, do this because they have far more passengers coming from the countries concerned than other European countries due to direct flights to West Africa. Some of the staging representatives may have seen that Norwegian aerodromes are now clearly informed of how passengers should act if they are afraid of being infected. Information has been developed both for the Norwegian public and for the West African immigrant communities, and information is being provided to various professional groups that need to know in particular how to deal with the suspicion of ebola. In addition, yesterday the Public Health Institute published a professional guide on how health professionals should handle people who may be infected with the Ebola virus. It is my belief that such measures will be essential for the proper and safe management of any future ebola cases in this country. We have been shown in the autumn that we have a high level of competence and trained health professionals who can accept and treat diseases like ebola. Oslo University Hospital is a key institution in Norwegian health care in this area, and the personnel who have close contact with similar environments in other Norwegian hospitals. The CBRNE Centre and the Infectious Department at Oslo University Hospital work with the hospitals concerned in other countries in order to provide the best treatment available. Health services are preparing to deal with several scenarios, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t sick persons transported to Norway, as the Norwegian doctor experienced health professionals infected during the treatment of an Ebola disease infected person when coming to Norway but not immediately caught by health care I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the Norwegian healthcare services, in particular for the Health Directorate, the National Institute for Public Health, Health Bergen and Oslo University Hospital, and for our cooperation partners in the international services and in the justice and defence sector. They are all working under heavy time pressure to ensure that the measures I have informed about are implemented as quickly as possible. It is their competence and capacity for effective prioritisation and coordination that enables us to implement the efforts of the Norwegian health care system towards ebola, and their perspective will be important in evaluating Norwegian and international efforts in the aftermath of the epidemic. Finally, let me make it clear that the Institute of Public Health considers it to be a low risk of an ebola epidemic in Norway. Our approach must be balanced. By strengthening our preparedness and by implementing the measures we are taking, we will ensure a low level of infection in Norway. At the same time, I want to avoid creating unnecessary fear. It is unlikely that we will experience the prevalence of ebola in Norway, but we are taking the necessary measures, monitor developments closely and will be alert to changes in the situation in the future, so that we can take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e736	The President will now propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, that a short comment round be opened limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each group of parties and final statements from the members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e741	:I would like to thank you for two good presentations on an epidemic that can also be seen as a security policy challenge. In the international community, we can see more epidemics and pandemics that can actually be international crises. It's going to be pretty much to be infected by Ebola. Therefore, the risk of infection in countries with well-functioning health systems is relatively low. Here, patients get isolated, treatment goes fast, and you can prevent further infection. We also heard the Minister of Health explain this right now. Ebola is primarily a challenge where no preventive health policy is pursued, where public health systems are not developed, and where there is no well-functioning health system – reinforced by poverty, poorly developed infrastructure and perhaps prejudiced. All of this helps to prevent the diagnosis and/or treatment of patients. We see how Ebola has spread to countries like Liberia and Sierra Leone. This is a country that, a few years ago, was ruled by civil war, and has not yet had the power to rebuild neither agriculture nor other jobs after these wars. I was in Liberia in 2012 together with two other deposit representatives, one of whom is in the hall. Almost all health services were run by UN organisations and NGOs. They did a formidable job, but Liberia was totally dependent on them. We were with a United Nations organization that supplied medics. What would Liberia have done without that UN organization? Today it's enough to give its unreserved praise to the organization Doctor Without Borders, who stood on not only to help, but also to raise awareness of a world society that reacted too late. The situation in West Africa is now described as a regional epidemic. It went too long from the outbreak in March to now. Rarely is good cross-border cooperation more important than in such situations. Unfortunately, the ebola outbreak in West Africa shows how weak and deficient the world's ability to help people in humanitarian crises is really. The international community is unable to provide rapid enough help when crises arise. Here I can add that I think the Norwegian Government has made a great effort and reacted quickly also in an international context. But it happens too late in total. We have now tested world health preparedness for the first time since the swine flu. The possibility of a rapid response in situations requiring emergency humanitarian aid must be the starting point for the way we set up our budgets. I am talking about the foreign budget and the aid budget. Unbureaucratic solutions are needed to ensure flexible financing and rapid response. People in extreme distress cannot wait. We need to distinguish between prevention, preparedness and development cooperation on the one hand and purely emergency or humanitarian aid – it is not always as easy to distinguish – on the other. But we need both. If we look at land like Liberia and Sierra Leone, they actually need both parts, and they have to go hand in hand. What happens when emergency aid disappears, when the humanitarian effort goes away? The Ebola crisis is a good opportunity for a critical review also of Norwegian emergency aid, although I think it has done a good job. The response among Norwegian health workers has also been impressive. Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to stress that the UN and the UN organisations in the field are crucial actors in the current situation. But it is also important to provide financial support to the volunteer actors represented by Doctors Without Borders, and for that matter also the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e758	The outbreak of Ebola has in a short time become one of the most serious crises of our time. Since the first outbreak in Guinea in 2013, almost 5,000 lives have been lost as a result of the disease. The forecasts are uncertain and the numbers of darkness are probably large. I would first of all like to thank those who have helped the countries that have been hit: those who are in the fight, who are on the ground and who were there almost before the world had opened its eyes. Doctors Without boundaries and cooperating organisations, such as the Red Cross, were early out and have worked on bombs under conditions that can, for us, be life-threatening – and that is probably so. The world has gradually traveled money, but nothing has been won without personnel. Money doesn't care sick – hands do. But money has to be! I am pleased that the government has taken the situation very seriously, and I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Health for the presentations and for the thoughts they have shared with us today. From the first contribution to the Uten Grenser Leger in April, Norway has contributed a total of 329 million. kr in earmarked funds for the total Ebola response. That's good. Norway also has, as part of a British-led operation, as we heard, among other things. put a Hercules aircraft at the disposal of personnel and equipment and thus also send in voluntary staff with the British. The outbreak in West Africa in our time has affected areas that have not previously been exposed to ebola outbreaks. The population has been perplexed, and support functions have been lacking. Large resources have therefore been deployed to inform about the disease, its course and measures that can be taken to prevent it. Dissemination of knowledge about the disease is therefore one of the most important prevention measures that can be taken. Only by contacting, informing and mobilising communities can the outbreaks be better controlled. Monitoring mechanisms, clean water and better sanitary conditions, food safety and good laboratory facilities must be put in place. In addition, information work has been put in place to ensure that funerals of Ebola victims are carried out safely. This is work that needs to continue. At the same time, we also need to invest resources and learn from the effort. Future opportunities for developing countries to tackle such pressures as an epidemic can be improved if their health systems are strengthened. When the swirls from the ebola outbreak subside, our focus and attention must be on the health infrastructures of these countries. The international community must continue its work. We can't afford to make this situation get worse. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the outbreak of Ebola has evolved to be far more than a health-related problem. Defective health services in weak countries have also led to a security policy problem in the last six months. Also in western, developed countries, we have seen that the disease spreads fear and frustration in the community — which in turn may be germs of conflict. It is a serious threat to health, safety and development both in the region and globally. We see that a number of countries introduce security measures to prevent infection. It is important, especially in neighbouring countries, where the risk of infection is greatest after all. Over recent years, Norwegian governments have shown that global management responsibility has been taken in terms of vaccination programmes and other measures to reduce child mortality, and in order to improve recruitment in poor and vulnerable countries. We agree that good measures have helped. In the wake of the Ebola crisis, we will have to dry out asking questions about how we can best provide health care in the future. Perhaps we should also ask ourselves whether, through our health-related assistance, we have been equally good at looking at health infrastructure in the same countries. Perhaps we need to ask ourselves whether we have been too concerned about large health funds and less about strengthening health services in poor countries. Health is a right that must be made available to all. Therefore, this government is increasing its efforts for global health. The humanitarian system is under pressure, especially because of the many – large – crises that we are experiencing today, and because of the complexity. Norway works actively and strategically to prevent crises and to assist and have a significant degree of credibility in the humanitarian field, both because of the size of its contributions, because of the ability of rapid response combined with predictability and because policy priorities based on action are based on the actual needs of the field, without other agendas. That's still the way it has to be. I very much welcome the open stance of the Councils on further evaluation and work on the role of Norway in this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e777	I would first like to thank you for two good statements from the government today. The Ebola virus has evolved into a global crisis. The World Health Organization estimates that up to 10,000 people have died as a result of the virus. We know that this is a threat we must fight internationally in solidarity. There have been some critical voices related to the response to the ebola. Too little help has come too late, it has been said. It's probably true that things can get better, but we also have to be able to say that we, as part of the international community, have taken this threat very seriously. The government has launched a number of measures and has a strong economic presence, and has contributed 329 million so far. kr. Norwegian support is provided, for example, to UN, Legs Without Borders and Red Cross. There are organisations that are in the midst of the tragedy, helping others and putting themselves at risk. These organizations make up the front soldiers in the war against Ebola, and they do an invaluable job to prevent infection and care for the sick. They deserve our respect and our support. Norway has also made available Hercules aircraft from the Defence Force to fly equipment and evacuate health professionals if necessary. However, it is important that we learn from this epidemic. This outbreak is only the last of many international outbreaks in recent years, which have caused fear among the population. We are still hearing about new superviruses and antibiotic resistant bacteria that threaten our public health. To believe certain scientists, it's only a matter of when the next global pandemic is a fact. The next time we might not get as good a warning and as good a preparation time. Next time, it may not be a relatively well-known virus that hits us, but something completely new and more aggressive. We see that the epidemic now goes back somewhat in Liberia, but then it's especially important not to let go of the measures, because the virus may not be as visible, but it's just as dangerous. We've seen that it can flare up quickly again. In the event of an outbreak of such epidemics, rapid action is essential. The UN was already warned in early 2013, without acting in any other way than by assessing. Therefore, some critical questions need to be addressed to the UN. Hundreds of volunteers are ready to assist. The dialogue with organisations such as Doctor Without Borders is very important. I am pleased that the government is following up on this. The fight against Ebola is highly priority and important. Equally important is to gain knowledge and experience about how to face similar threats in the future. We must have clear and unambiguous guidelines on how to act when the danger threatens. Research and development and cooperation with non-governmental organisations are essential when combating ebola and future threats. The state budget is being negotiated these days, and I hope to strengthen the work of the voluntary organisations to further equip them in the fight against Ebola.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e800	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Health and Care for two very good and current payments. The ongoing outbreak of the viral disease Ebola has a special ramifications of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea in West Africa. The death toll for every day. It's now about 5,500 dead. The number of infections is more than once. It is important to stop the spread of this disease, not only for the population of the framework countries, but for the whole world community. In Norway, we – as the Minister of Health and Welfare said quite correctly – have good intentions to meet this challenge. We have an advanced health system. We now see that internationally, medicines and developed vaccines are being produced. With a well-developed health care system and clean water they could also more easily stop the spread in West Africa and give them better treatment. With schooling for all, the level of knowledge would be higher and prevention would be easier. But because more countries in Africa are among the poorest in the world, they are very much missing from what is, of course, for us. The outbreak of Ebola in West Africa shows the importance of international assistance. We can act quickly, because the pledges in the aid budget give power to action, and because we have not kept Sierra Leone and Guinea out of any country list. At the beginning of October, the government announced a list of countries preventing Norwegian aid to these countries. I believe what has happened shows that we have to make some changes here, partly by making exceptions for emergency aid, and partly by making other changes. In my view, the Ebola epidemic in West Africa shows that emergency aid is necessary and important, but at the same time that short-term emergency aid is not enough. The lack of preparedness and poor health services in these countries have contributed to the spread of infectious diseases. So maybe the most important lesson we can learn is that long-term efforts are needed to develop a well-functioning health system. When Doctor Without Borders called an alarm half a year ago, in April, the World Health Organization said this was a small outbreak. In retrospect, we can see that the monitoring and warning systems were too poor. The national health systems in the countries do not have the power of the task. The international response was too late. As a result, the extent of the outbreak has been greater than necessary. Here's the lesson to learn. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have consistently underlined the importance of building national health systems in poor countries. When we have supported measures to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and widespread causes of high mortality among children and mothers, we have always underlined the following points: Full vaccine coverage and medical treatment to all parts of the country and to ever-increasing new year olds have led a well-developed health system across the country Long-term support for education and health may not be the most ‘mediocre’ when it comes to selling out news. It may not be 'political' enough when you focus on power and system changes. But that's the way out there is like in our own country: it's the long-term construction of the country that has brought us to where we are today. I'm almost a little tempted to – I might be careful with it, with the Minister of Health present – bring out a little bowl, just for the important, long-term development aid! But maybe I should wait until we have adopted a budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e826	It sounds like a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e829	Thank you to the government councils Burnde and Höie for a very important piece of work that has been long lasting. We've been listening a lot about this in the media, and it's very important that the Storting gets such information. For those countries that are bordered, this is more than a health crisis. It is, as Minister of Foreign Affairs Brende said, a crisis for the country that can both go beyond employment and not least trust in national authorities. The Ebola epidemic reminds us that health is very important in foreign and development policy. I think that in the previous period we treat Meld. St. 11 for 2011–2012 on global health in foreign and development policy. Global health was for the first time the subject of collective treatment in the Storting. The then government was clear that health should be a priority area of foreign and development policy. There were three main objectives in the big message: one was to mobilise for the dishes of women and children up to health, one was to reduce the burden of disease – with a focus on prevention – and one was to promote human safety through health. Now the world community has once again underestimated the risk and extent of a contagious disease. We've had the largest ebola outbreak ever, and countries that lack basic infrastructure have suffered the most. I agree with the representative Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen from the Progress Party that this is not the last time we want to experience an epidemic in the world. No more than four years have passed since Norway was also the frame of a pandemic. We got a mild rash, but with the flu pandemic we also experienced mass vaccination, and we were reminded of the mutilation we're facing. Our experience with that pandemic in Norway was that the fight for vaccines was also discussed here. We're a rich country, and we can manage, but it's a gross injustice in the world around how the vaccine supply in the world is divided unevenly. But when it comes to health professionals, I want to support what Councillor Höie also said when he gave commendation to health professionals who want to go out and help, and I am sure that the health authorities in Norway are doing everything they can to minimise the risk that a person is always exposed to. When it comes to vaccines, I see that the Public Health Institute has a report that recommends two things: that Norway should contribute in the short term to the rapid clinical trial of vaccines in Guinea, and that one should contribute to the financing of the next generation of ebolavaccine and vaccine technology. They recommend this and believe that it will cost about 100 million. kr. I'm very concerned that Norway can contribute to this situation. Norwegian professional environment and actors are relevant for the development, testing and regulatory approval of vaccines. I assume that the recommendations of the Public Health Institute are followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e844	I would like to start by thanking the two Councils for their thorough briefing and for a reassuring Norwegian effort as far as the challenges we are facing, especially in West Africa. Several speakers have addressed a number of the challenges we face. The representative Hareide mentioned monitoring and alert procedures as one of the reasons why the efforts of the world community have taken time. I want to start from natural disasters, where we in Norway are very good at contributing internationally, and where we are well organized. When we look at health-related disasters, we come up with a longer time perspective and what challenges we face. This concerns the organisation of international preparedness and assistance, but I also believe, as many have been involved, that we should look at how we organise the Norwegian contributions. Natural disasters, by their nature, receive slightly different attention in the media and thus easier access to acute contributions. Health-related disasters, such as here, that evolve over time — with one case reaching ten and ten and one hundred and hundreds — have a different slowness in themselves and do not get the necessary attention from the media until it becomes a major challenge. It is probably one of the explanations that the world community has not been able to organise — to a sufficient extent and in sufficient time — the necessary resources. It is also important to bear in mind, and in particular to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that it is important for Norway to point out to both the United Nations system and the World Health Organisation the importance of long-term efforts and financial contributions in order to maintain an ongoing preparedness. The Minister of Health was concerned with actors in Norway who have had a special responsibility in this case: Health Bergen, the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, Oslo University Hospital and not least the voluntary actors. I believe that we in Norway should build a larger and more thorough network to have a long-term perspective among the actors to be mobilised, and that the development of skills over time is important here, in order to contribute to situations where the time aspect is different from a typical natural disaster. Information work is also part of such efforts, and Norway is particularly well placed to assist. There is also a lot of digital technology that Norway masters and is far ahead of, and where we can develop an increased international effort. So here are several challenges ahead that Norway can also address domestically.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e856	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Health for the presentations. It is good to see that the government has a strong commitment, and it is important that the Storting also underlines the responsibility of Norway, by virtue of our capacity and ability to help in a very serious situation. The history of the Ebola epidemic is a story of great suffering and many deaths. There is also a threat of social collapse in parts of West Africa. For example, a country that Liberia has achieved in recent years is at risk of zeroing out through the paralysis of society that the epidemic has brought. Ebola is also the story of two kinds of failure in the international response to epidemics that take many lives in poor countries. One is that, early in the development of this epidemic, we saw once again that too much responsibility was placed on a few non-governmental organisations, who, despite making a fantastic effort, cannot alone bear a response to a challenge of this kind. Not least Doctors Without Borders have very clearly underlined the need for state intervention. The state effort came from many countries, but it came late. The second thing that this situation draws attention to is the heavenly injustice of what is being put on in the development of medicines around the world. Ebola has been a known virus for a long, long time, but it is also a disease that kills poor people, and has until now only killed poor people. The way in which the international pharmaceutical industry is built up, it is what pays off, which overly determines what kind of medicine is being developed. Viagra pays off. Working with Ebola doesn't pay off. That means, as politicians, we need to focus more on how we can change this system, so that efforts are directed more towards what is most dangerous to people, and not just towards what pays most to develop in a medicine market. At the beginning of the debate on a Norwegian response, the Swedish Government criticised it for being too slow in its response. Since we did, I also think it is appropriate to give the government credit for the response, when it came, was good and responded to what was needed and showed a strong effort from the Norwegian side. I believe that Norway's responsibility is clear in this matter. I also hope that it will lead to a long-term commitment to help the countries concerned rebuild and strengthen their health system. It is also important that we stress in this debate that although Ebola has now come down on the agenda in the media, this is an acute and dramatic situation that has still not been resolved. The latest reports suggest that although the number of Ebola cases goes down in Liberia, there is a growing trend in Sierra Leone and Guinea. This means that it is of the utmost importance to be aware of this situation — also politically — in the coming period. It is also said from the relief organisations that the capacity is stretched to the flaw in terms of organisational, in addition, of course, to the great impatience of access to medicines. I am pleased that the government clearly signals that it will maintain its commitment and meet it in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e877	First, I would like to thank you for a good and important discussion. The Ebola epidemic must be controlled. It's a regional health threat, but it's also a global safety risk associated with that type of epidemic, and unfortunately, I think we've just seen the top of the iceberg. This is a type of disease outbreak that we can experience in several years to come if we do not manage to strengthen the capacity of developing countries, both in terms of health and in terms of access to clean drinking water, and it is closely related to sanitary conditions. This is also the case – e.g. in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea – that when the disease breaks out, we do not manage to mobilize quickly enough what is necessary when it comes to isolation of patients. When someone develops ebola, they have to be isolated, they have to be taken care of properly, there has to be good systems in place for how to treat the dead. If patients stay at home with ebola, and it comes to relatives and others — for example, from the village — on visits, it is only a matter of days before many more may be infected. Putting in place the capacity needed to isolate Ebola patients and get the treatment they need is what they need. I am pleased that there is a full uprising in the United Kingdom that we should now not only grant money to the various UN organisations and humanitarian organisations and to the countries and Bretton Woods institutions, but also that Norway should take advantage of the volunteering of health professionals that we have now seen, which is admirable, that they can go down and make an effort through the arrangement we have developed with the United Kingdom in Sierra Leone. I have to say that it is incredibly admirable when we see hundreds of Norwegian health professionals making themselves available. It's touching, and it shows that people – and health professionals – think widely and have a burning humanitarian commitment. Of course, travelling to West Africa is not risk-free, but we have now put in place systems to ensure this as much as possible. And having put in place that kind of system, we can learn from what's now happening, so that in any new case in the years to come, you'll be able to have the kind of capacity and the kind of learning based on the process we've been through. But just to make it clear – it was the representative of Hareide who was dealing with this with the humanitarian resources: the government has provided in the budget for a strengthening of health for the next year of over 170 million. kr. In addition, we have committed to a strengthening of the humanitarian budget of nearly half a billion dollars. And there is no geographical concentration of humanitarian resources: humanitarian resources should be allocated where the needs are greatest – both as a result of war and conflict and this type of health crisis or natural disaster. The geographical concentration proposed by the government — a conservative concentration from 116 countries to 84 countries — is the long-term aid for development. In the case of humanitarian matters, it must be the humanitarian imperative that applies. We'll set up where the needs are greater. That's the starting point for allocation. That's why 326 million have now been allocated. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We cannot forget the situation now in these three West African countries. It will spread to other countries in Africa, and it could have great international consequences if we do not now overcome the ebola epidemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e892	I would like to thank the Stortinget for the feedback on the statement, and I am pleased that there is a total amount of money expressing gratitude to the Norwegian health professionals who have volunteered to travel to West Africa. I'll pass that on when I meet the first group of these later this afternoon. As others have pointed out, it is of course also important to stress that this is primarily about helping people in West Africa who are affected. It is our responsibility to contribute to reverse developments, to contribute to a humanitarian disaster, but it is also right to look this into a wider context – from both a regional and a global security perspective. This is why several of the representatives have also been concerned with what is absolutely fundamental, namely having a good health service and its importance for safety both locally, regionally and globally. After all, the United States has taken an initiative in which Norway is involved through the Global Safety Agenda, which is about building up local health services and preparedness related to this type of situation, simply to implement the Global Health and Safety Regulations developed by the World Health Organisation. There we still have major challenges. Had this been in place before this situation arose in West Africa, we would probably have had a completely different scenario. It is a major challenge to help build a local health service in these countries, and in similar countries, that can handle and help the population when different health needs arise, and it is important to start from the beginning, which is education. That is why the emphasis on education that the government has given to aid is quite correct. Building health services locally is a prerequisite for educating children and young people, and not least girls. So this is related, and that's also true, as the representative Hareide was in the room. We have now received the recommendation from the Institute of Public Health regarding the vaccine, and we will continue to work on it. However, there is reason to stress that in this area the most important ‘medicine’ is known: the most important medicine is to build up healthcare locally. The most important medicine is also to have societies where there is a high level of trust between the population and the authorities. Both components are a prerequisite for the success of both vaccines and other types of medicine. This applies in all countries, regardless of where one is located in the world. It will also be the most important thing in our own country if epidemics occur that affect us — that the population trusts the vaccine councils given, that people trust and follow the advice given by health authorities. Trust is also essential to avoid side effects of that type of situation creating unnecessary unrest and leading to other problems in a society. We see that when there is fear of epidemics, even in well-developed societies, it gets results that affect the entire community. Therefore, it is crucial that we also think very carefully in Norway through the fact that that kind of trust is crucial for a society to have, and that trust builds you in good times to be able to use it in tougher times. There is also the situation in these countries, that some of the challenge has just been to get the population to follow the advice given and to follow it, and to reach it with that advice. This is also important, although of course it is also important to develop both vaccines and medicines, but it is not enough if the other prerequisites are not in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e910	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Health and Care on the outbreak of Ebola in Africa be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e926	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e942	In response to me on 14 February this year, to a written question, the Minister of Health and Health wrote that according to the Health Directorate, 6-10 pregnancies can be expected every year with trisomy 18 in Norway. This diagnosis is associated with high mortality, both in the womb and after birth. Most live-born children die during the first few days of life, but about 10 pst. lives for more than one year. All with trisomy 18 have severe psychomotor developmental impairment, and many have malformations in one or more organs, such as the heart, brain, spinal cord, and lip and/or cleavage. The chromosome in the cell nucleus consists of 22 pairs. In trisomi, there's an extra copy of the chromosome or part of the chromosome. Both trisomi in chromosome 13 and trisomi in chromosome 18 are serious diagnostics. The seriousness is that it is not difficult to understand that both the families have the demanding and what kind of dilemma health professionals encounter in their contact with the casual family members. Both me and the representative Karin Andersen, from SV, have asked written questions to the Minister of Health and Care about the treatment guidelines for these children, and it was we two who, after dialogue with parents, took the initiative to have a seminar at Stortinget on this which was carried out on 14 October this year. The seminar met both medical and legal expertise and parents and children with trisomi. There were also several parties involved as co-organizers. Some parents have experienced their child's confirmation. David Kristian Bergsaker, superior to Frambu, Center for Rare Diagnosis, told the seminar that there were children with trisomy 13 who had been 23 years old, one with trisomy 18 who had been 37 years old, and that others were 15, 14, 11 and 7 years old, and that there were both one- and two-year-olds in Norway. Their family knows they're an exception. At the same time, they're proof that being born with trisomy can be the beginning of life, and that it's not always the end of life. 5-10 pst. So it's going to be one year or more. The criticism of the guidelines followed in Norwegian hospitals has increased. Few births with the most serious trisomy diagnosis are given postnatal supportive care, especially for life-prolonging or life-saving treatment. At the same time, the scientific community is certain that it may be unclear whether a newborn child with severe trisomi is among the exceptions or not. The criticism is that children with trisomy 13 or trisomy 18 themselves have to prove their viability. Secondly, the criticism is that family members may need more time with their child and should be given this if it is possible and does not cause the child pain, even when that time proves to be short. The measures that we're talking about here are, for example, simple non-invasive diagnosis or breathing aid for a short period of time. Reports from parents, both internationally and nationally, show that many people have a very bad memory attached to the feeling that health professionals are just waiting for their children to die. Although the survival time of the 13-child trisomy and 18-child trisomy is still very low, it has extra. Several of the subjects at the seminar referred to a study from Japan, where a selected group of children with trisomy 13 and children with trisomy 18 who received treatment, including surgery, showed over 40 pst. one-year survival. Such studies show that it is important not to freeze a picture of a state, but to take over medical developments. At the same time, it is equally important to consider how such survival is achieved. If this happens through long-term respiratory therapy, for example, ethical questions arise as to whether this is correct. Child nurse at the Hospital Eastfold Kari Holte was also at the seminar, and she was concerned with these very important ethical evaluations and was critical of parts of the treatment given in Japan, which may have caused unnecessary suffering to the children. Kari Holte is also among the children’s students in Norway who have helped to ensure that children with trisomy 18 have received lifelong treatment. heart surgery. In his reply to me in February, the Minister of Health and Health indicated that the Directorate of Health, on behalf of the Department, is working on national professional guidelines for the relief of children with a known reduced life span, regardless of diagnosis. At the seminar, this work was presented by senior consultant Jens Grögaard in the Health Directorate. There is now an important work to be done. However, the concern among a part of the trade union community and among families that have experienced these rare diagnoses is that the guidelines should become standards that in practice invert the room for which treatment is offered trisomy 13 and trisomy 18-children, or substantiate already unfortunate practices. It is also symptomatic that alleviating treatment is very often associated with the end of life and very rarely with the beginning of life. The use of encroachment may prove to be indicative. Ola Didrik Saugstad, professor of childhood diseases at the University of Oslo and head of the Department of Women's and Child Health at Oslo University Hospital, showed at the seminar that practice is changing internationally. Conditions are very serious, but not absolutely lethal. It is a growing understanding that treatment needs to be individualised and that parents’ wishes need to be taken into consideration. As an example of developments, it was shown that 40–50 years ago, children were not born with trisomy 21, i.e. Down’s syndrome, full intensive treatment. It would be unmistakable today. In other words, a change of posture in the health care system is necessary when it applies to children born with trisomy 13 and children born with trisomy 18. Their individual rights must be guaranteed equal to all of the other children's rights. Legal adviser in UNICEF, Ivar Stokkereit, pointed to the UN Children’s Convention seminar, Article 24, which establishes the right of children to benefit from the highest achievable health standards and the provision of treatment for disease and rehabilitation, and that no child is deprived of his right to access such health services. All children have the right to non-discrimination and that decisions are taken on the best of the child and on life and development. The main thing here is all of man's right to be treated as an individual. I want to end with something of what Kari Holte, the children's doctor from Eastfold, told me at the big-time seminar on trisomi. I've been given her permission to do so. Holte told me that as a pediatrician she had been acquainted with three children with trisomy 18, where two lived beyond one year of age. Holte told, with parents' permission, about these children at the seminar: ‘I perceive that they have a reasonable quality of life at their level. In fact, better than some other seriously disabled children I have met, who have not been subject to the same treatment restriction requirements. They show that they know the difference between evil and good, and they recognize their parents. In my study period, I imagined that children with trisomy 13 and 18 were sort of freaks who were programmed to die. The image I see, it doesn't match this. But these children are still seriously retarded by development, and they have a high need for care. Parents put an end to their children’s efforts and, in addition, extensive use of public assistance is required for these families to have a working everyday life. Quality of life is a difficult goal and depends on the eye that sees. Although many of the children will die early, I think we have to give the few who can actually get a good life a reasonable chance to show who they are – when the parents want it.” I support Kari Holte in this and want national guidelines that can contribute to a change in posture, where children with trisomy are more often met as newborns first, and who are ill there. The health service must be given space and itself create the space needed for medical expertise in collaboration with family members to make the best choices for the children. Will the Council of State make sure that this happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e981	Like the representative Bollestad, the representative Toppe raises important questions about how we, as a society, follow up children born with serious illness. I would like to stress that it is obvious that each individual in need of health care should be assessed individually and that the health care provided should meet the individual needs. At the same time, I record that some women who have born a child with a diagnosis of trisomy 13 or trisomy 18 have told me that they have felt abortion pressure, or that their child has not received sufficient health care after birth. The Health Directorate stated in a letter to the Department last week that the diagnosis of trisomy 13 and trisomy 18 is «examples of disease conditions that have historically been described as «incompatible with life». At the same time, the Directorate states that «today it may seem to be a slightly greater possibility of survival for some of those who are born alive with this condition». The discussion during the Stortinge in the fall seminar also shows that there may be a slightly different perception in the medical environments than in the past as regards life expectancy and quality of life for children diagnosed with trisomy 13 or trisomy 18. I am concerned that everyone should get the follow-up and treatment they need, regardless of diagnosis. The type of treatment to be administered must and must be assessed by qualified health professionals. At the same time, it is important that communication between healthcare professionals, patients and relatives is good both in terms of the patient’s needs and in terms of the medically-professionally appropriate treatment to provide. This will vary in individual cases. I have asked the health regions to explain how they ensure good guidance and follow-up, and the hospitals have reported that this should be taken seriously both before and after birth. Hospitals inform that the woman and her partner will be offered support and follow-up through pregnancy and that the pediatricians will assess the child after birth and implement the appropriate treatment based on the child’s condition. The development of neonatal and neonatal surgery is rapid and the treatment outcome for several groups of children is much better today than before. In particular, this extreme prematureity, where there is a significant chance of survival today, is much higher than before. This also applies to children with congenital heart malformations who are currently being treated in the form of surgical procedures. Conditions that were previously considered to be incompatible with life are, in some cases, likely to have a more uncertain and optimistic outlook. As I said to Stortinget last week, national treatment service for advanced invasive foetal medicine at St. Olav's hospital receives referrals from all over the country. The treatment service has an annual care for about 220 pregnant women with developmental abnormalities. Doctors, midwives and long-experienced socionomists provide information and support to pregnant women in such a situation. Locally at St. Olav’s hospital, the national treatment service cooperates with paediatric doctors, paediatric cardiologists, geneticists and orthopaedics in the follow-up of pregnant women with foetal abnormalities. It is important that parents are informed about support measures after birth. The National Center for Foetal Medicine at St. Olav’s Hospital’s health care company showed that they work closely with Frambu as part of the national services of expertise for rare diagnosis. Closer cooperation with Förbu is under development. Internationally, Norwegian maternity care, maternity care and neonatal medicine have a high standard. Norway has one of the world’s lowest numbers of foetal deaths late in pregnancy and death early in the neonatal period. Care for pregnant women and their partners after finding serious diseases or abnormalities in the foetus is an important and integral part of this care. Guidance and follow-up of pregnant women where a serious disease has been detected in the foetus requires specific competence. I assume that health regions provide an organisation that best maintains and further develops this competence. As I said in the Stortinge last week, the Health Directorate is working on professional guidelines for the relief of children, regardless of diagnosis. They are scheduled to finish in the spring of 2015. The assignment was given under the previous government. I have noticed that the parent group has responded to the concept practice, and I assume that the Health Directorate, in the light of the Stortinget seminar, is looking at the concept when they are going to complete the guidelines. They were also present at the seminar. During the interpellation from Bollestad last week, questions were raised about the municipality's obligation to provide a coordinator according to the Health and Care Services Act § 7-2 also apply to children with trisomy 13 or 18. It was also expressed the wish that such a coordinator should be connected even before the birth where the foetus has a serious disease. The municipality's obligation to provide coordinator to patients and users in need of long-term and coordinated services applies to all age groups and is diagnostically independent. I think it's an interesting suggestion to connect the coordinator before birth. This is in line with the thinking underlying the interaction reform, and the way in which we want the specialist health service and the community health service to cooperate. This is a good input into the Directorate-General for Health's further work on guidelines and a good input into the general effort to improve the interaction between specialist health services and community health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1002	This is a theme that doesn't have much to do with politics, because we're very much in the profession. Therefore, I have a wish that we can raise this matter together, because I understand that several parties and representatives are concerned about what these parents report. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer, because it is very much positive that is being said about things that are going on, understanding how families can experience today's practice in hospitals. It is a pleasure that one sees a movement in how one defines these children with this disease, that historically it has been defined as not agreeable to life, but that it is now established that this is not completely absolute. The most important thing is the fact that everyone, i.e. children and young people, has the right to an individual assessment of their treatment needs. So I have some specific questions. At the seminar it was noted that it is actually a rule that such children do not have heart surgery, so I wonder: is this practice today in hospitals, or is it such that this is assessed individually? It was also said that there were absolute diagnostic lists that legal advisers from UNICEF, Ivar Stokkeleit, said that there was something that should not exist, i.e. that children who were born with trisomy 13 or 18 were on a list that says they don't get, for example. heart surgery. Are there any diagnostics in Norwegian hospitals today? So to the diversion. It is quite true that parents react very much to the need for new guidelines for relieving treatment, and that there is a definition where one might talk by one another. But it has to be defined. My question is whether the Council of State will give a new message to that group, or whether it is expected that those who are working on it have listened to the debate in Stortinget and take it that way. Or will the State Council itself give a new direction or ask them to look at the use of words, not to use "simplification" and only that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1017	Like the representative Toppe, I am pleased that this issue is addressed. As I also said last week's interpellation debate, I am pleased that a seminar was organised on this topic at Stortinget, that these issues are being raised and discussed. I was pleased with the interpellation debate last week and that it is also now being discussed, precisely because the parents affected by this need that the Stortinget, that the management of Health-Norway, see the issues that they wanted to address, but also that health professionals affected by this, who are in difficult balances, are recognised that these are difficult considerations, that there are issues that it is important to discuss and reflect on, and perhaps that a practice or attitude that has been before needs to be changed, simply because medical development changes. I do not have the opportunity to answer the first, very specific questions from the representative Toppe, but I am not aware that there are those types of lists. I would like to stress that I take the view that decisions that children can be helped by surgical or medical treatment are based on the knowledge that is up-to-date at all times, with the main aim of alleviating pain and making life better for the children – which is the medical principle. That means that one is also a basis for these children, the same principles that one does otherwise. One should try to help, but it is also important that one in his attempt to help does not harm. It's a thousand-year-old medical principle that stands out today. This decision must also be taken in close dialogue with parents and with respect for parental autonomy. It is an attitude that may be of a little more recent date, but it is also important to take this work into account. It is also such that this is a subject which is discussed in the Clinical-Ethical Committees. It is also important for me to stress that we have clinical-ethical committees in our hospitals, where the professionals standing up in these difficult balances and assessments have the opportunity to raise these kinds of issues and to receive both ethical and professional support for their assessments and reflections, which they have the opportunity to take into account in the further work. I am aware that these kinds of issues have also been raised and discussed in the Clinical Ethics Committees, and the discussions will be a good tool for the professionals who stand up in these kinds of assessments in their clinical practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1028	First, I want to commend Kjersti Toppe for addressing this challenging topic, which affects relatives who may not at the same time seem as easy to raise their voice in terms of the experience they have gained, and the situation in which they stand. It is incredibly important that we, as politicians, use this ombudsman role and raise such issues in this Chamber as well. I think it has greater effect than we might sometimes think through. Then I will also give tribute to the Minister for Health, because I am convinced of the answers I receive. And I think there's actually a cross-political consensus on which principles we're going to apply – in respect of the individual life, no matter how it's born, but also considering how we're going to deal with it, which is perhaps the biggest challenge, because I think we're getting wiser. But how we're going to solve it is still hard, because it's very dependent on you having environments around them in the hospitals that cope with the balance around showing empathy, showing understanding the situation you're in when you're so vulnerable and seeing that it wants you the most, maybe it doesn't get the way you want. On the one hand, one has to balance hope with taking over medical progress, and on the other hand, be prepared for a short life – and prepare the parents for death to be an exit, unfortunately, on something that one had hoped would be something quite different. The key here is that we use the knowledge and schools and support them under the hospital environments and also the health environments in the municipality, which are capable of doing something in this area, because there are not always written guidelines that are the solution. Although that is what we can do, we must encourage ourselves to take this on board, for every child, every individual, should in principle have – and we must live up to it – the same rights, and relatives should feel that their child is being cared for in the best way. So I wish us – and not least the Minister of Health, who has the main responsibility – good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1041	From the publisher's review of author Siri Fuglem Berg's book on Evy Kristine it is called: ‘Four children were on their way and everyone in the family had started to rejoice when the discouraging news came. The child in the stomach had a serious diagnosis. Did she die in her stomach? Would she survive birth? Would the family have some time with her, or was she really incompatible with life, as the doctors said? Would they accept the offer of abortion? What was the best way to go on? These were questions that the small family had to decide on. They had dubiously accepted foetal diagnostics." Mother and father are both doctors, specialists in anaesthesiology, and through this process have experienced the health care of the patient at good and bad. They have written a book about Evy Kristine, and it was published in 2013. They have also created a website where they tell beautifully about their daughter's short life and death, and it is intended to help other parents in the same situation. I would like to thank the representative Toppe for asking if she can contribute to an attitude change in the Norwegian health care system that ensures children with the diagnosis of trisomi 13 or 18 the same right to genuine health care after individual assessment and treatment as other children. Until 2000, the guidelines stated that lifesaving measures should not be initiated for children born with trisomy 18 and trisomy 13, said Ola Didrik Saugstad, professor at the University of Oslo and head of the Paediatric Research Institute at Oslo University Hospital, to Dagens Medisin after the seminar here at Stortinget. It is perhaps demanding to think that there is something more should have asked questions about earlier. Trisomi is a rare, serious disease where the children are born with an extra chromosome. Many of the children die early, often before the age of one, even though recent studies show better survival — as has been said earlier here today. The state is serious, but not absolutely lethal, as textbooks have previously claimed, and since the 1990s there has been a change in treatment from non-intervention to lifelong treatment. From not recommending treatment, individual case assessments should now be made and the wishes of parents should be taken into account. As of today, there are no national professional guidelines for their treatment, and I am pleased that the Minister of Health and Health tells us that this work is now in progress, and that the guidelines are planned to be completed in the spring of 2015. Health services must respect women who wish to continue their pregnancy once trisomi has been detected and follow-up with medical and psychosocial support. That is why a coordinator proposed by Mr Bollestad, who was debated last week's interpellation debate, is a good idea. The representative of Bollestad addressed whether health professionals have adequate guidance procedures and provide good information and support in dealing with pregnant women who are awaiting a child who is seriously ill or who has a condition requiring additional follow-up and resources. This coordinator will follow the parents through pregnancy when a serious defect is detected in the child and be responsible for coordinating relief measures when parents and children come home. The interpellant Kjersti Toppe was also involved in this topic, namely how the family – the parents and the sick – can best live at home in their own municipality as far as possible. Several parents at the triomise mine raised the issue of active treatment and relieving treatment. It is important to listen to the views they have, and I also perceive that the Minister is doing so in his speech. At the same time, it is very important to recognise palliation as a subject and treatment – as a subject area, but also as a treatment. There is a lot of treatment also in relieving treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1061	We have had two important interpellation debates in Stortinget, today and a week ago. I want to commend the representatives Toppe and Bollestad for promoting these important issues. Initially, I had little knowledge of the trisomy 13 and trisomy 18 syndromes, but I've learned about this topic lately and I know that it involves me a lot. It is about how we can create the patient’s health care even for children born with a serious illness. The trisomy 13 and trisomy18 syndromes are a serious chromosome defect. Too many people get critical disease. It is known that several parents who are told that they are expecting a child with trisomi are told that the disease is incompatible with life and is recommended to take abortion. Although many children with proven trisomi will die early, it is not the same as being programmed to die. Today, we have many examples of children with these serious chromosome errors living good lives. We can give a good life to several of these children, even if it's too short for many of the children. There is not always active treatment that is right for the child. The best interests of the child shall always be at the disposal of the healthcare provided. Each child must be evaluated individually and the wishes of his or her parents must be listened to. Several have suggested that today’s doctors provide healthcare after an old curriculum. Since the 2000s, we have gone from not providing these children with treatment to providing lifelong treatment. Nevertheless, we experience cases where parents have to persuade doctors to provide their child with life-long treatment. The Progress Party, together with several parties here at Stortinget, has attended a seminar on trisomi. It was instructive, and it was touching. Several parents attended the seminar and shared their experiences with the politicians present. We got to know more children, and we got to see pictures and hear stories that touched us. It was inspiring, but it was also very thoughtful. Unfortunately, some of the parents at the seminar told me that they have felt pressured into foetal diagnosis and latent. Several stated that they did not get good information at the hospital when they were waiting for the child. They experience wide variation between hospitals in the information provided about the diagnosis. They also showed different experiences of the treatment options presented to their children. These variations are not acceptable. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Health has asked regional health companies to explain how they ensure good guidance and follow-up of these parents. Health professionals must respect women who wish to continue their pregnancy once trisomi has been detected. The child needs medical follow-up, and the family needs psychosocial support. Many parents worry about whether their child gets what the child needs to survive. It's an extra load that we don't want these to go through. However, it was gratifying to hear at the seminar that there is a change of attitude in Health-Norway about whether these children should receive active treatment. There has become more attention to the fact that children with trisomy live longer than we previously recognized, and that several of these children experience good quality of life. In the international context, Norway has one of the world’s lowest numbers of foetal deaths both during pregnancy and in the neonatal phase. Developments in treatment and knowledge of these diseases are rapid. Treatment and surgery are more accurate. More people experience better treatment outcomes than before. There's reason to be optimistic. I am sure that it is not just health professionals who need a change of attitude related to this disease. We, as a society, too, have a responsibility. We need to understand that parents who are waiting for a child with this disease not only assess the disease as a diagnosis, but also put it into a social context: the desire to give their child a chance to live, experience care and love. There are close and personal dilemmas that these parents face. It shall be respected by health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1082	All babies are different at birth. But some children we know in advance will have special challenges, and often we know – but not always – that some children have trisomy 18 or trisomy 13. Other kids know we don't have challenges, but they get challenges during birth. But the question is, whether you have the challenges in advance or you get them at birth, whether they get the same opportunity after birth – and that's what I feel the interpellant asks about. The stories of trisomy 13 or trisomy 18 say that parents have had to fight for life-saving treatment — not even life-prolonging, but life-saving treatment — either right after birth or when the child begins to grow and they see that they have some comorbidity that can easily be arranged surgically. When we know that, and also know that research and opportunities have changed since 2000 and long before that, why hasn't treatment and health care options changed? The question is, Is it a child that is born, or is it a diagnosis that is born? Where does the individual treatment become if it is the diagnosis that precedes the child? Fresh babies who do not have a diagnosis at birth may have different apache cuts when they are born, and thus also have different opportunities and different futures. But all of these, regardless of ape cut, get to start their lives and get help to start it. But in the case of pre-diagnosis kids, parents may have to ask for help to start their lives. That's what Ola Didrik Saugstad at the seminar everyone's talking about, who was here at the Stortinget, apologized for. He saw that the medical world had changed, he saw that some children should have been offered help at the beginning of their lives, because it was the child who needed help, but they had a diagnosis. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the interpellant is right in that we need a change of mind, and I am very pleased with the Minister's answer, that it is the young person who should have help, regardless of diagnosis. Then it may be that the diagnosis determines the treatment, and that the diagnosis must be the starting point for the choices made by health professionals, but they must look at the young person and the possibility each young person has. Guidelines become important but should not be restrictive but advisory. After the last weeks I have been left with the question: who is finally healthy enough to be born, and who is healthy enough to receive treatment? And who will decide whether a child should be treated or not? That is why I am pleased again that the minister says that it is the starting point of the child and the child's ability to live that has to be determined in each situation, and not what diagnosis the child has in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1093	Thank you very much to those who have had articles. It has been very good that has been said. I want to present what the representative, Kari Kjenaas Kjos, said that it is not just health care that needs a change of posture. Well, the health system's detonations reflect what's the detonators or what's in society. I came to my neighbor when I grew up, he had Down's syndrome and was almost 80 years old. My mother told me that when he started school, he was rejected the first day of school, for such people did not go to school at that time. It was the mother who taught him to read. So in every field, we probably have something to be ashamed of when it concerns the treatment of children with disabilities. I would also like to draw up what the representative of Bollestad said that a child is born as a child, it is not a diagnosis that is born. It's at the heart of what we've brought up in this case. I'm very pleased with what the council here signals. One has considered important issues that are on the way and that will focus, that the guidelines should not only focus on what is perceived as relieving treatment, but also on the framework for more active treatment, and that the guidelines should not be absolute, but that individual assessment should be independent of guidelines. The presence of a contact person before the birth of the child, which the representative of Bollestad took up in his previous week’s interview, is also important in order for families to get better help, to be heard more fully and to get better guidance and follow-up. And then I have another question in the end about these guidelines. Is it so that they will also deal with the framework for more active treatment, as the Minister for Health sees it? Do I understand him right? Otherwise, I must thank you for a very good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1106	I would also like to thank you for a good debate and very nice reflections on this difficult topic. The work on the guidelines is now well under way. Those responsible for the guidelines were present at the seminar and brought with them the issues that arose. Both the contact group and the patient organisation are involved, and the reference group. I feel confident that the recordings will be taken further into the important shade between the perception of relieving treatment and active treatment, as the representative Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen also mentioned in his contribution. Then it is important that we provide the basis for concrete and individual assessments in these situations, and that those who are going to make these assessments involve their parents and provide the best possible information in a difficult situation. We also need to recognise that it is a difficult situation to provide information in some of these cases, but one must also help to ensure that there is a good ethical and professional reflection on these issues in hospitals. Providing treatment, not least life-saving treatment and intensive treatment, may in some cases involve more than one helper. We also have to include that in this. Health professionals are in that situation, in the light of the information they have available, that they do the assessment of when a person crosses the very clear line, namely that a person should first of all not be harmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1118	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1124	We are then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1134	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring the Storting to justice by the end of March 2015 on the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child [[child convention]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1161	The Left and the Left have announced that they will now support the Subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1188	Case No. 4 was the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Health and Care, which were attached to the Minutes after the debate earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1208	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-11.ana.ud1893e1342	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
