ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e228	The representative of Ms Aasen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e231	On behalf of the representatives of Christian Thinning Bjørnø, Tone Merete Sønsterud and myself, I would like to make a proposal for better swimming education in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e236	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e239	On the day 45 years after the Borten administration introduced the VAT system, I have, on behalf of the representatives Sverre Myrli, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself, the pleasure of making a proposal for a representative to ensure that VAT is paid by non-resident companies operating domestic transport of persons and goods in Norway, so-called cabotage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e244	The representative, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, will put forward three representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e247	On behalf of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal to introduce a national ban on environmental pollutants. On behalf of Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself, I would like to propose the development of the E18 West Corridor and its impact on air quality and greenhouse gas emissions. On behalf of the representative Abid Q. Raja and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure that county municipalities have the opportunity to impose environmental requirements on the taxi industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e256	The representative, Mr Aasrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e259	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Hege Haukeland Liadal and myself, I would like to make a proposal for the establishment of a national unit against combat fixation and manipulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e265	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e268	On behalf of the representative Audun Lysbakken and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the thank-you of management wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e273	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e276	On behalf of the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to give young people under 25 who are not in school or education, the right to education and competence, guidance and/or job offers within three months. On behalf of the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and myself, I will make a proposal to give young people who have been granted disability benefits, access to help and actions from Nav to get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e283	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e286	On behalf of Olaug V. Bollestad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to make a public statement on women's health. On behalf of Mr Heidi Greni and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on an action plan to strengthen the sewing skills of children and young people. On behalf of Per Olaf Lundteg and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on a review of the LAR scheme in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e295	The representative, Anders Tyvand, will put forward a proposal for a representative. It's great that on this Big One's last day we remind ourselves that we're going to have something to do for the autumn as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e300	On behalf of the representatives Hans Fredrik Grövan, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir S. Tuskedal and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for early school work through increased teacher density between 1 and 4. steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e305	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Case No. 1–30 refers to the second reading of legislative decisions, and they are proposed to be dealt with as a whole. The President expects no one to ask for the floor for any of these matters. If someone's going to do it, they have to do it now. - No, it's not. Then we will do the necessary treatment, so that they can go to the Sanctions Council this morning. This applies to legislative acts Nos. 65 up to and including Nos. Ninety-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e325	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e339	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e353	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e367	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e381	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e395	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e409	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e423	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e437	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e451	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e466	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e480	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e494	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e508	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e522	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e536	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e550	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e564	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e578	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e592	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e606	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e621	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e635	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e649	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e663	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e677	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e691	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e705	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e719	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e733	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e740	There are no proposals for comments, and Bill No. 65 up to and including Nos. 94 is therefore approved at the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e767	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Right 45 minutes, Advance Party 30 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes, Left 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes and Environment Party Green 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers and parliamentary leaders of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e778	First, when I heard the contribution of Per Olaf Lundtigen when he promoted his proposal, I was told that this is a brand day, but that it is such a big brand day, and that it is 45 years since the VAT system was introduced, I was not aware. It is a great shame that the Committee on Finance has not marked this in a better way, but we are taking it with us in the debate. It's probably cake in the Ministry of Finance, at least. That's what I'm counting on. This is a revised budget, and it also bears its mark. This should not be a 'light' budgetary procedure, where we address everything that we thought should have been included in the ordinary budget. First of all, we are adjusting where there is a need, but of course there are also some individual proposals, which the majority – and certainly the minority – have in their wisdom come to the point of promoting. When the government presented its revised budget, it could – as the Minister of Finance said – stress that the Norwegian economy is going well. There are some challenges in some industries, but the forecasts you had at the beginning of this year stand – overall – with a slight downward adjustment. It also means that there has not been any basis for the major changes in the budget, but we are pleased that the government has followed up the cooperation agreement, including the agreement. by strengthening continuing training for teachers in the revised budget, as an example. In addition, the Committee's reading has led to some changes which, in our view, improve the budget. When you hear the public debate, you get the impression that the only thing that happens in the revised budget is that there are some changes to the tax-free rules, and that some boat engines are going to be cheap. I understand that is important to someone. The exact thing about tax-free is not very important for the Christian People's Party, rather on the contrary, so we don't vote for it either. But I've noticed that both this Minister of Finance and Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen – I'm not going to claim that they have a love for wine, because that could indicate something – but at least they have a love for increasing the quota of tax-free wine. First it was Kristin Halvorsen, who converted various spirits into wine, and then this finance minister, who – I don't know if it was an invite to the Christian People's Party – converts tobacco into wine. I am not going to say that we have allowed ourselves to be tempted, because we do not really have it either, but we are not voting for it, and we are simply doing so because, in our opinion, the proposal is more serious than that. It weakens the position of the wine monopoly in the long term, and I think everyone understands that hardly is in line with our policy. But we have had a lot of other things, which I would like to thank the cooperation parties for providing for us together. We get increased funding for kindergartens and thus strengthened the municipal economy by 175 million. kr. As we all know, there has been a discussion of the calculation basis for kindergarten and funding in municipalities. We've also decided that we have to do something about it. There has been a ‘mismatch’ over several years, and in cooperation with the municipalities and KS we need to put in place a better system for this. It shall take effect from the next financial year. Then it has been important for us to target measures against poverty and, in particular, child poverty. We now have a new arrangement where three-year-olds can have free core time in kindergarten. It is a very targeted measure, which I see that the Municipality of Oslo has now seized and is planning to use as early as autumn. We are very happy to have this arrangement, and this is something that the entire committee is behind. We also get something into both the Christian People's Party and the Left was very busy in the budget, namely the first funds for a reward scheme for bicycle paths. We've seen before how the interaction with municipal initiative and a positive response from the state trigger better collective coverage. Now we're trying the same thing for bike paths, and we think it'll give us a very positive effect. In addition, we strengthen the ordinary reward scheme for better public transport in urban areas. Both the government and the cooperation parties have been committed to strengthening what is the basis of Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs, when looking a little further ahead, and that is research and higher education. It's been put on by the government, and it's further invested in the setting we're dealing with today, as a result of the agreement between the four parties. This is a revised budget. There is no doubt that the large test for cooperation between the four lots will come to the harvest. Then the government has had the whole year to give a profile in the budget, which is entirely their own. The government also knows the priorities of the cooperation parties, and we look forward to working together at the next crossroads, when the Stortinget gathers for the autumn. I guess there's almost one of the first things that happen, that the budget is presented when we get back together after the summer. So there are some small items that have been a lot of attention around, which I'm glad we've got in place in this budget. It's about the chess-OL in Tromsø. We put a little line over the story that's been -- and squabbling, I might say -- about why there's more money needed, but it's now $12 million. kr more. The Steinmeyer organ in Nidarosdom also receives funds. We're getting a reinforcement of the Church's family protection in place. Then I should just point out the setting that it should read "The Church's Family Protection Foundation". There are two different things in different places, but it's said, it's the Church's Family Protection Foundation that gets the funds. I am also pleased that the four parties today are presenting a proposal relating to refugees who have significant health problems. We see the great challenge that the previous government has set in terms of transfer refugees, and I am pleased that the government will look at the criteria for these. We also deal with another matter at the same time, and it is a differentiated employer's fee. There we have at a great pace both received the case and dealt with it with consultation. I would like to thank the government for the work they have done to strengthen Norway’s position, when it turns out that the differentiated employer’s fee will not be as extensive as before, but that compensatory measures have been put in place. We know, of course, that the system we have had now, which will continue to operate in a number of areas, is incredibly targeted. Therefore, it is not very easy to find the right compensatory measures immediately. The scheme is now being extended by 31 new municipalities, while the scope is being narrowed. I want to commend the committee. I would like to commend case rapporteur Lisbeth Berg-Hansen for the work of the Committee on this matter in order to provide as broad a majority as we now have behind the position. I think that's a strength, even when we meet our European friends or kinsmen or what you want to call it. The sum of the financial committee's views on this matter is that we are satisfied with what the government has presented, but we – like the government – see that this must be followed up. We need to see how the impact is on different sectors and on businesses, businesses and county municipalities, and there is both growth and government prepared to come back to. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on these matters and would like to recommend this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e810	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e813	I share with the representative Syversen's burning commitment to children's families. When the government presented revised national budgets, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party stood side by side in the hiking hall and criticized the priorities. I noticed with great joy what the Syversen said: the government bets 200 million. on cheaper alcohol and boat engines, but cannot afford to increase the appropriations allocated to kindergartens. I therefore had great expectations for the negotiations. I had thought the Christian People's Party would get rid of cheaper alcohol. I had thought the Christian People's Party would have paid the nursery bill. But I have to say that the Christian People's Party left the negotiating table with an extra liter of tax-free wine under its arm and a half-paid nursery bill. I would like to hear the representative's thoughts about the Christian People's Party's lack of success in the negotiations, about why an unsupported Workers' Party's proposal to say no to cheaper alcohol and to help pay the entire kindergarten bill today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e820	My experience in this Chamber is that, in general, the Workers' Party is wondering when they do not support their proposals. I still understand that is a wonder. That might be because we've got a cooperation that includes other parties in this round. Yeah, we've got 175 million. kr to kindergartens. We have received a lot of positive information from the municipality for that. Then you can discuss: Is it heads for heads? What we know is that the basis of calculation has been too weak. It's been too weak for a long time. What the municipalities have said to me – which is perhaps even more important than the millions right here – is that we have a good basis for calculation. As the representative knows, we also have a verbal proposal, which says it should be clear, and that should apply to the 2015 budget. In my view, this is perhaps the most important thing we do in this sector, with the decisions we make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e827	Unfortunately, the situation in Syria is getting even more dramatic and worse every day because of the humanitarian situation. We had a discussion in Stortinget before Christmas about how many quota refugees we are going to receive in Norway, and what we are going to contribute to. Unfortunately, after the government change, it was decided that the number of quota refugees would be reduced by 500 compared to the proposal of the red-green lots. When we see the global refugee situation now and know it's worse than ever, does the Seven and the Christian People's Party think it was a right priority to cut the number of quota refugees in Norway by 500?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e832	This year we're receiving more quota refugees than ever. A large part of them are reserved for refugees from Syria. I fully agree with the commitment that Trygve Battle Violence Vedum refers to, both from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, in taking responsibility. We take responsibility, by providing large appropriations for the situation in Syria and the neighbouring countries, not least, so that they can accept refugees, and we take responsibility for accepting refugees here. So the representative Battle Violence Vedum knows that, in fact, a few weeks ago, we made a decision in the Storting that was almost unanimous, asking the government to look at how we can accept Syrian refugees, and come back to Stortinget with it. I am very pleased, because here we need a large majority, which shows that Norway is taking its responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e841	The representative Battle Violence Vedum has asked for another line, but has to come back with the next question later, as there are only three lines after the main speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e844	Then I can follow up where Battle violence Vedum escaped: Last year the number of refugees in the world increased by 6 million people – just last year. There are 2.5 million people who are driven out of Syria. As Battle Violence Vedum had in mind, last year the government and the majority of the population – the Christian People's Party included – decided to reduce the number of quota refugees compared to what the red-green government had proposed. Then the representative of Syversen has told us to look at the criteria. But it doesn't help much when we can now decide to accept more damaged acids. It's not that the Christian People's Party can turn away from the fact that they themselves have signed an agreement where there are quite strict criteria for what kind of refugees are going to enter Norway. Why can't the Christian People's Party just vote for the proposal that is in the Chamber today, which ensures that we accept more damaged acids, instead of a new bureaucratic process – when we all really know what would be the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e853	There were several relationships here. Firstly, as regards which transfer refugees we accept, I expect the representative Serigstad Valen to be aware that the guidelines that apply were introduced when SV was put into government. So if you use very strong adjectives, which I've seen other representatives from SV use about it, it's a judgment of the guidelines you've established yourself. But then I totally agree, we're going to do ours to receive refugees from Syria. We're going to adopt something today, which is about the criteria to be looked at. We decided a couple of weeks ago a joint call to the government on how to get it back to Stortinget to see if we can accept more. The exposure we share. I also hope that we can jointly ensure that there will be results from this, both to do something here at home, in Syria and in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e861	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e864	The revised budget shall be exactly that – a revision of the budget. It is not a crossroads for the big, new bets or the extensive grips, but it is an opportunity to adjust the price and to ensure that it is corrected in obvious errors. There's an opportunity that the bourgeois parties choose to throw away. For the first time in many years it is announced in revised increasing leave. There's only a slight rise, right, but the trend in the wrong direction is that. Let's say that this development is, of course, largely a result of fluctuating economic cycles, but it is nevertheless worth reflecting a few seconds on the fact that there is little evidence that the so-called growth-promoting tax haven't borne fruit so far. Last year we received signals of an increasing two-way division of the economy. Then we used the opportunity in the revised budget to present a comprehensive growth package to the mainland industry. This year, lower growth rates, tax deficits and rising unemployment rates should have the government react. Instead, we see that tax-free and cheaper suspension engines are among the most important priorities. In our alternative budget, we choose to reverse the curtailment of the harvest into the permitting scheme. In the hearing of the Financial Committee, we were told, by both the LO and the NHO, in addition to several industry associations, how this tightening now means that more companies have to go to the right to resign instead of permitting employees when the order books are crooked. For half of the amount spent by the government to change the tax-free system, it could follow the Workers' Party's proposal to ensure a proper leave-out scheme. It doesn't. I noticed that the Minister of Finance used the word freedom of choice when she presented the proposal that gives us the opportunity to switch smoke to wine. I guess it's a freedom of choice that means little to the employee who loses the job, and to the company that can no longer afford to choose to permit valuable employees instead of canceling them. We are also giving priority to financing the whole increased demand for kindergartens. The bill for the government's error of calculation has remained with the municipalities. We are pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left managed, through the budgetary agreement, to add some more money to the kindergartens. But still it's over 200 million. kr which is uncovered. Together with the tax failure experienced by the municipalities, it greatly tightens the free income, compared to what was thought to be the situation in the harvest. When the government will instruct the municipalities to give more priority to drugs and psychiatry – in and on a great purpose – it is within a framework that already has several hundred million dollars in minus. The calculation doesn't go up at all. The result, of course, is that local authorities must give priority to disadvantaged groups. There are several proposals we would like to see received a majority in this Chamber today: prioritisation of an aid billion to Syria, a proper strategy for the settlement of the more than 5,000 refugees and asylum seekers sitting on Norwegian asylum recipients, with legal decisions to stay, without having had a municipality to live in. The situation for them is precarious. In addition, a grant for the further training of teachers, which would have meant that no teachers needed to be in line for further training and 500 more student homes — to mention something. We don't get that. The bourgeois parties obviously have other priorities. No government has ever used more oil money than this. Nevertheless, they do not have the power to pay the bill for their own errors of calculation in the case of kindergartens and educational establishments. So in conclusion, on several occasions, we have heard the bourgeois party leaders talk about how the Stortinget is now going to be such a much more interesting place, a more interesting arena – you have to listen to Stortinget. I must say that it is all the more worrying that it seems that the parliamentary leaders on the civil side are not going to take part in the debate here today. It's still not too late to draw. I hope they do. There would be a strength for the debate in a very important matter on the last day of the Grand Duchy. I bring up the proposals that the Labour Party has promoted alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e887	The representative Marianne Marthinsen then brought up the proposals she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e892	I should like to draw attention to the so-called Syria billion that the Labour Party is calling for in proposal No. Eight. Here, the Workers' Party will give money, but leave it to others to decide where to cut it. They want to take from other poor people to give to the Syrians. Instead of injecting new money, the Labour Party will re-prioritize, without saying which of the poor and weak groups will take the lead in this policy. Is it like this one here scores a cheap point with cheap money? And is this a way we're going to see more of – that the Workers' Party chooses to finance its promises in this way in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e897	This is all but a cheap point. We have asked in our alternative budget that 1 billion be given priority. For Syria. That is absolutely necessary – this is the greatest humanitarian disaster in our century. So after eight years of red-green rule, the aid budget is historically large. I'm proud of that. It also means that at the end of each financial year, there are still quite large unexplored amounts that can be transferred for different purposes, and we believe that Syria must be given priority. If it turns out that it's impossible to prioritize it within the limits you have, the effusion is a very natural place to sort it out. I wish there was a majority in the main hall to do this priority. They're over 160 million. kr that the government has cut off is too small. Instead, we see a government that is primarily interested in accepting undamaged acids that have not been affected by the atrocities they have been through, because they become too burdensome for Norway. I do not know if it is a parliamentary expression, but I think it is shameful.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e904	In 1978, Per Kleppe was Minister of Finance in Norway. That year the krona was devalued by 8 pst., and the income stop and the price stop were also introduced. In order to slow down private consumption, an excise duty was also imposed on boat engines that would be temporary, but that has now remained for over 35 years. The majority are removing this temporary excise duty today, and I have a question for the representative Marthinsen: doesn't the Labour Party think it is time after 35 years to remove a temporary fee? If it is not long enough, I wonder what was the Workers' Party's ‘temporary excise duty’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e909	Thanks to the representative, Mr Hagesett, for the historical lesson. What Per Kleppe in his time put in the term ‘temporary’, I can unfortunately not answer for. But what I'm recording is that in a revised budget presented at a time when there is a lower rate of growth and higher unemployment, the priority is to spend 100 million. kr on cheaper suspension engines. I believe that this is a bad priority. You leave a large pediatric bill out of the municipalities. It is not possible to reverse a permissive mechanism that makes companies have to go right to resign, rather than keep their employees through bad times. I think that's a better way to spend 100 million. kr is higher than giving priority to cheaper suspension engines.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e914	The representative Marthinsen began his speech very well by reminding the assembly that this is a revision. It's a revised budget, so we shouldn't put too much of it in either the sums or the things. Then she ended up making it something much bigger – and calling for the participation of the parliamentary leaders – which stands in stark contrast to the introduction. It is possible that I am not completely attached to the logic, but I hope Marthinsen can deepen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e919	The involvement of parliamentary leaders in the debate on the revised national budget has been a normal procedure in the UK for many years. Yes, it's a revision of the budget, but it's after all the entire state budget and the adjustment of what we have to deal with. It's the last day of Storting's meeting. Several major issues lie in the revised national budget. I've been dealing with several of them: Syria, kindergartens and lay-offs, and that of course applies to the new macro-digits in the budget. This is a budget that alerts an economic situation for Norway where unemployment is slowing up, where growth estimates are being adjusted down, and where we see trends in relatively strong tax deficits. It is a situation that I believe the parliamentary leaders should take the trouble to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e924	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e927	Yes, it's just a budget audit, as many have pointed out, but it's revising an entire budget, and there's the big lines of Norwegian economic policy. That is why I very much agree with the chairman of the committee when he expresses the consensus there is still between the four parties on the major lines of Norwegian economic policy. I use the opportunity to thank both him and the Left for a constructive approach to the foundation of the cooperation agreement between the four parties – because it is also seen in the revised budget, not least the key element of the cooperation agreement that value creation must be stimulated, that values must be created before they can be shared, and that we must focus on knowledge, on infrastructure development and on facilitating private ownership. This follows these parties, as well as a responsible economy where the rule of action is established. This is particularly important, because it means a more realistic approach to the reality of the Norwegian economy. We are doing well in the Norwegian economy, but we must also try to see the challenges that exist, because it is not that there are no challenges. When you read the Workers' Party's notes, you can get the impression that everything is rosy and that you've shown it through the last years of government. The challenges in the Norwegian economy have been visible for a long time for those who have wanted to see them, but they have been swept under the carpet in almost a discretionary painting of economic excellence inspired by high oil prices, low import prices and, of course, good government finances. The challenges in the Norwegian economy are called weakening competitiveness and weakening innovation, and they consist of a peculiar cost level that has galloped from our competitor country and created a two-track economy. And this wasn't discovered last year, so you could get the impression of Marthinsen's posts. It has been there for a long time — how the mainland economy is struggling with the cost level and a subsequent decline in productivity growth, and where we are not able to compensate for the increased cost level. There aren't any new challenges at all, they've been lying there for a long time. The bourgeois parties have been occupied by them for a long time, but they have not had sufficient attention in the past. These are challenges that need to be addressed through fiscal policies, creating a better environment for investment and creating new profitable jobs and ensuring growth and profitability in existing jobs. That is what is the basis of the welfare society. We can't afford without first creating values. Well-being development depends on the growth capacity of the mainland economy That is why, as concretely done in the revised budget, it can appear to be relatively small amounts. But it is solidly working together between the four bourgeois parties on where they want to go with Norwegian business, with Norwegian value creation, with the Norwegian welfare community. And it's not least about how to spend the oil money. The phasing-in of oil money into the Norwegian economy must help to curb precisely the weakening of competitiveness by using this money properly – for education, for research, for investment in infrastructure and for growth-promoting tax relief. I believe that our policy does not create any differences – I see that you have been concerned about it on the left-hand side. Our policies create jobs and businesses. The large differences between residents in this country cannot be measured by tax statistics. The differences can be measured by going out and looking at: who has a job? Who doesn't have a job? Who is able to support themselves and their family? In the revised national budget, emphasis is placed both on the adjustments made by the government and on what can just lead to the creation of these jobs, the long-term — through kindergartens, through school, education, transport and, for that matter, tax reductions. This is going to be more important than ever in the demanding period we're now going into. In the world around us, it's just a weak growth. Major parts of Europe remain marked by the post-crisis and economic imbalances. There is great uncertainty in many places, not least geopolitically. The situation both in Ukraine and in Iraq will create instability, with economic repercussions, if it does not come under control. Of course, our country depends on the development of its trading partners. There is reason to believe that growth in Norway may be lower than it has been in the years behind us, for two reasons: investment in the oil industry seems to be flattening out, and from a high cost level, we are going to adjust down to a development at a slower pace. The countries around us are increasing their competitiveness, after having had a significant decline, while growth outside is weak. This was well illustrated at the interest rate meeting in Norway’s Bank yesterday. There is a weaker growth. The interest rate path is adjusted downwards towards a long-term low-interest regime, precisely because of developments outside and the decline in investment in the oil industry. This is a clear expression of the fact that the fiscal policy of the time to come, especially with regard to the first budget of this government, to which Mr Syversen also refers, is becoming very important in order to contribute precisely to stimulating the value-generating investments. A few words about a differentiated employer's fee. I am glad that there was a broad consensus in Stortinget about this. I am pleased that the Workers' Party saw that what the government had done was what was possible – up to where we are now. In fact, at the end, the government had further restrictions on the exemption areas. I am – like the Seven – happy that the Workers' Party was constructively behind the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the road. That's what's important. This is a job that needs to be done all the time. The Committee has underlined its importance and pointed out how to work in the future. The government says in the proposition that this is not a job that has been completed. That's what it says. That is why I believe that the realistic approach to the opportunities now available, to what is coming, both the government and the committee, have worked out in a good way. It is particularly important that Nordic businesses experience that everything that can be done to get this done is done. The challenges of the Norwegian economy in the future are many – and the number is probably increasing – but the starting point is good, better than most of our competitors around the world. But it must not be a sleeping cushion. Rather, it must be a springboard to make those adjustments – through a growth-enhancing fiscal policy – that can lead to the strengthened competitiveness, which I have called for, and which I have stressed and underlined in this article. It is measures for business and value creation that are at the bottom of all that we from the Storting are going to grant to strengthen jobs. It is this that provides the further funding of the welfare community. I am particularly looking forward to the cooperation that we are going to have with the cooperation parties. This first year has shown that it works well. We are based on what we agreed on in the Nydalen, which is completely central, economical elements in governing this country's economy. I am very pleased that you can also see – without having to resort to much fine reading – in this revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e956	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e959	I noticed that the representative Fleet commented most on the big picture – and not on the individual issues that have been changed in the revised budget. That's why I'm going to give the representative an opportunity to comment on a matter that might have drowned a little bit in the big picture. We have heard earlier today that the government has miscalculated the number of small children's families who would choose cash support instead of kindergarten. It is also confirmed by the Ministry of Finance in a letter to the question that 344 million have been withdrawn. NOK of the framework grant to municipalities due to this error calculation. This might have been expected to have been corrected by the government in the revised budget – and at least that would have been done in the Stortinget. You haven't. Then I would like to ask the representative: is there accounting skills on it, or is this a deliberate change of family policy? If you ask the families of children, I think they would have wanted this fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e966	No, it doesn't have math skills. As the representative knows, the right is a calculator party. We have accounting skills to the highest degree. It is unexplained to say that the government has miscalculated this. It's a calculation model that's led to this. It's been around for years. There has been little attention around it, simply because the municipalities have come out well in a few years. If you get worse, there has been a significant focus on it. The government has been crystal clear to say that we have to make a different calculation model. There is even a verbal proposal from the cooperation parties that this should be looked at in greater detail. In addition, through the agreement, we have compensated this by 175 million. kr. It's not that this is something that has occurred due to it. government error of calculations or due to systems established by the government. It has, with all due respect, actually been possible for previous governments to go in and look at this model.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e975	As of 1 July, very many Norwegian companies will experience a huge jump in their tax burden. If you look at the transport sector in particular, the Ministry of Finance has replied to the Committee that 200 transport companies will have an average of 2.5 million. kr more in annual fees. It is – honestly – a call for charges. In my own country, among other things, the transport company Espeland Transport is afraid that this could be the hook on the door. My question to the representative from the Right concerns the following: We have had this case before in Stortinget. There was a hearing in the case on Monday, we gave it on Wednesday. Is it not proper to have asked for suspension or transitional arrangements when so many companies are hit so hard and when they have to change from our decisions today and by 1 July?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e982	I believe that this is most appropriate. I believe that the alternative would be irresponsible. It would be irresponsible not to implement and establish guidelines and rules for this. What may have been irresponsible over a very long time is not having worked well enough towards the EU, towards the systems – made up, followed up its duty to defend Norwegian business in what one would have known would come. I allow myself to say that the red-green government was not particularly besieged by any desire to travel as far as possible to Brussels and handle the matters that come from there. One would like to think that what is done is not satisfied with what is done there, but when there are important issues relating to Norway and Norwegian business, it is necessary to follow up better. What we've done – the Workers' Party has also joined – is that, from the situation we've had, we've done what we've been able to do, and we've arranged for a further race.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e989	The next representative is Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e992	President, I'm giving the line to the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e997	Well, then we'll give it to the representative, Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1000	I think it is wonderful to listen to the representative from the Right. Instead of worrying about the hundreds of companies that are now getting a huge tax call, you are more concerned about trying to find someone to blame for what happened last year. We never agreed to change the differentiated employer's fee. But you could, for example. when you saw that you did not get the impression we thought you should get, asked for transitional arrangements, you could ask for a postponement. I repeat, is it serious to adopt tax changes now that several hundred companies are hit by, in one week? Is it a procedure Right-wing seems wise, as the Right-wing thinks is good? Had it not been better either to have been clear to the EU, said no, we cannot implement it that way, we have to have transitional arrangements, we have to have a postponement, because now many farm workplaces can go off in a very short time if we are forced to do this from 1 July?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1007	I still believe – in answer to this and to the previous question – that it has been wise for the Storting to address this. There was broad agreement in the Financial Committee that this should be dealt with. I believe it has been done in a very good way. All the hearing bodies that were present — and there were relatively many — got to deliver their messages. I note that there is a large majority who believe that we have now done what was possible at the moment. In addition, almost all the views expressed in this consultation have been mentioned in comments or in proposals from an overall majority on how this should be done towards the enterprises concerned. Of course, it's dramatic, it's not that I don't care about the companies, but we've said that we're going to deal with all the issues that were raised. It's actually being done, and it's my opinion that the Nordic business community has been satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1014	The cord shift is over. The representative Fleet might have taken up proposal No. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1020	Thank you for that, President, I am doing it to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1025	Representative Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1028	As many people have said, it is a revision of a budget we are doing today. The national budget for 2014 has been revised, which is again based on the State budget for 2014, which the four cooperation parties became a few at the end of last year. The 2014 State budget restated on the cooperation agreement between the same four parties. The state budget for 2014 pointed out a new direction in Norwegian policy – a change of course. After eight years of red-green government, higher taxes and taxes, more detailed management and increased bureaucracy, the government budget for 2014 contained tax and tax credits of a total of 7.3 billion. kr. General taxes were reduced from 28 to 27 pst. So was corporate tax. The inheritance tax was removed altogether, and the property tax was also reduced both by an increase in the bottom deduction to one million, and by a reduction in the rate from 1.1 pst. For 1 pst. An average two-income family received almost NOK 3000 in tax bills. Simplification and red tape were also put on the agenda. It is important that the big money can be spent on the big tasks, not on bureaucracy and detail management. There were also record investments in road and rail in that budget. Never before has there been such an investment in roads and paths as it will be this year. At the same time, there are ambitions to work with, and there are also some projects where the toll part is reduced. This means safer roads and lower transport costs both for businesses and for individuals. There is also a record health effort within the state budget for 2014 both in the form of money and other interventions, by increasing input-driven funding from 40 to 50 pst. This means that more people can get treatment when they need it, and it also provides a better basis for getting health cows down. Recordsetting is also the case in the justice sector. The fight against crime is strengthened. Knowledge and innovation are also areas that were strongly strengthened in the State budget for 2014, and of course it is also important for future generations to have both high wages and good living standards. Our goal will always be a safer and simpler everyday life for people most and greater freedom of choice for the individual. The revised National Budget for 2014 continues the grips made in the State budget for 2014 and reinforces the new course further. Revised national budget contains, inter alia: the following: the sending of criminal foreigners increases, increased incentives for rentals, more security and preparedness, increased efforts for further training of teachers, increased control of foreign car combinations, which means safer roads in Norway, and improved health follow-up. In addition, there are some other joys that lie within the revised, which it has been a part of the focus around. The first is the excise duty on boat engines, which was introduced in 1978. Then – as I was in my reply – Minister of Finance Per Kleppe was responsible for it. The crown was also devalued by 8 pst. that year, and revenue stops and price stops were introduced. In order to mitigate private consumption, an excise duty was imposed on boat engines, which would be temporary. It has now been 36 years, and it has been established by various governments. The new Right-Forward Party government and the plurality of this room have only spent eight months removing it. That's what I think is good. Another cause of happiness is greater flexibility for tax-free by allowing travellers to exchange the tobacco quota with two bottles of wine. That means that if you don't buy alcohol and tobacco, you can bring six bottles of wine, and a couple can bring a box of wine, 12 bottles. Some critical voices have claimed that this can create major negative consequences for both the Vinmonopole and others. It is not a fear of the progress party. We would also like to remind you that there is still a long way to go until the EU quota, which has been in existence for several years, and debts when a cargo of alcohol between EU countries. It's 10 liters of alcohol, 20 liters of liqueur wine, 90 liters of weak wine – it's up to 15 pst. - and 110 liters of starch. There's another piece that we're there, to say it like that, and I don't think we'll get there either. In order to ensure the plurality of the budget, the government party has also had constructive talks with our friends in the Christian People's Party and the Left in this round. This has resulted in an increase of just over 380 million. That's $175 million. kr is the largest entry, which goes to municipalities and kindergartens. Other major items received by the Christian People's Party and the Left are payroll schemes for better public transport in urban areas, which are reinforced by 65 million. kr, and basic funding to universities and higher education institutions, supported by 49 million. kr. In addition to budgetary changes, there are some verbal proposals for the Cooperation Party. One of the proposals was a proposal submitted after the Committee had completed its work on the budget: ‘The government is asking for guidance on the withdrawal of transfer refugees, set out on 16.06.2010, in the light of experience gained from the withdrawal of Syrian refugees in the spring of 2014.’» We thought it was important and reasonable that a review of these guidelines should be carried out. So let's see what that review leads to, what conclusions you can draw from that review. But having a review of the guidelines that have existed under the red-green, we seem to be both reasonable and correct. Of course, there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party and the Left have a major influence on Norwegian politics, and that they have had too much impact during this revision. It's because the voters have said they should have it. The mandate given to us by the voters is that the Right and the Advance Party do not have multiples, but must seek support from at least one other party to secure multiples. It provides the basis for a vital and active accumulation. That is why I am very happy that the cooperation between the four cooperation parties is as good as it is. Although we are some people in many cases, both through the cooperation agreement and in the work here in Stortinget, there are of course things where we are not quite a few. But we're all busy working for Norway to become an even better country to live in. That is why I am looking forward to further cooperation. Even if we're all impatient and want to get a lot in a short time, it's perhaps even more important that we manage to change the main course in the right direction, that a set of efforts to simplify and debureaucratise, give the individual greater freedom of choice, and that one seizes those that guarantee competitiveness and prosperity both in the short, medium and long term. That's what this budget is doing. This is a budget that facilitates a simpler everyday life for most people. That's why this is a good day for both the Cooperation Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, but last but not least I believe this is also a very good day for Norway and the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1061	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1064	There is no doubt that a number of workers have lost their jobs in the last six months as a result of the government's amendment to the permit regulations. Permitting is simply becoming too expensive for many businesses. In the Committee's hearing, there was massive opposition to the new rules and a unanimous demand for reversal. But the government refuses to listen, even claiming that the new rules work well. The money is loose when it comes to tax and tax cuts, happy things, as Hageseter calls it. However, with regard to the new rules on permitting, there is little to rejoice about. Nor does it create a simpler everyday life for most people – again to quote Hagesets. So my questions are, how can the government send people out in this way? And why does the Progress Party choose to show such arrogance towards an overall Norwegian working and business life?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1073	We don't show arrogance in any area. This is a matter we follow closely. Of course, if the situation should deteriorate, consider making improvements. I want to add that it's not just positive to make improvements within the permitting rules. If it becomes too favourable to permit, it will often lock and not release fixed labour in some areas. One depends on, especially in 2014, a working life that has some flexibility, which also means that some employees change employers. Previously, it was much more so that one started when one was young in a workplace, and then one worked there for the rest of his life. Now one has to have more flexibility, and I believe that also the working life will be lit up. That's why it's not just positive to have overly favourable permitting rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1080	I would like to congratulate the Progress Party on its great and important impact. So I want an evaluation of a proposal: ‘The government asks for guidance on the withdrawal of transfer refugees...’. This is the one proposal on which the Progress Party is involved. The other thing we've been promoting is: ‘The Government is asking the Government to meet the request of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to increase the proportion of transfer refugees from Syria with special medical needs in addition to the criteria given so far by the Norwegian Government.’ Which of the two proposals is most obligatory and clear and takes the greatest human interest – is it the proposal that one should review guidelines, or is it to meet the request of the UN?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1095	As I also said in my post, we have become a few of the verbal suggestions. The first proposal is that one should review the guidelines that hang from the red-green government. I can't see that there's any surprise that we're going to review guidelines that the red-green government is working on. We think that's both reasonable and correct. As I also said, we'll see what comes out of that assessment, and what conclusions there will be. When it comes to the second, it's also a verbal proposal that we've been told about, which is to be dealt with and evaluated on an ongoing basis, but it's not possible to go into detail on what this will result in in terms of the number of quota refugees, etc. We have to look at this, and of course we have to follow closely how the situation develops.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1104	Two days ago, we could read that Gjermund Hagesett celebrates the new tax-free quota, and said it was an expression of a new political course. Before he starts that story about Kristin Halvorsen, I just want to say that if you switch from alcohol to wine, it becomes less alcohol, but if you switch from tobacco to wine, it becomes more alcohol. In SV we are more concerned with full child care than with full quota. We are quite upset about a situation where there is a need, where the government has miscalculated the issue of kindergartens, where they have calculated errors in apprenticeships, where there is a great need in the municipal sector, which now has a great deal of tax failure. When one of the heart issues of the Advance Party is – if it is not kindergartens, should there be elderly care – can the representative Hagesetter give a good argument as to why cheaper alcohol is more important than freedom of choice for families with children who need kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1111	First of all, I want to say that it's not the government that's miscalculated when it comes to babysitting. What the government has used and created is a method of calculation which is also used by the red-green government. Then it turns out that the way is not as good as he should be. He's just giving the wrong result. This is why work is in progress on changing that method of calculation. One has worked with KS to get a better way of calculating what we can use for the future. I'm asked if it's more important with cheaper liquor. We haven't entered for cheaper booze. We have gone in so that one can exchange its tobacco quota with two bottles of wine – that gives flexibility and choice. And so I think it's more dangerous to smoke than to get a glass of red wine in new and no. Of course, I also want to remind you of what Kristin Halvorsen did.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1118	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1122	The world is witness to an enormous humanitarian disaster in Syria, with ramifications to a number of neighbouring countries. Millions of people are fleeing, and there are well over 100,000 deaths. The numbers show enormous suffering, and it is necessary that we all contribute. That is why, in the Central Party, we are going to vote in favour of the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted, on an additional aid billion to Syria. In our alternative budget we have also added an increase in the number of quota refugees, and we believe it was wrong, what we did before Christmas here in Stortinget, that we did not continue the increase that the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV agreed on. I think it's nice that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not share that reality. We have also put forward proposals in the Chamber that we should have other criteria when selecting quota refugees. I think it's a pity and really incomprehensible that the Christian People's Party and the Left, when they could be with and change the policy, concentrate on a review. But I'm observing it. What we have seen is that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have given the Christian People's Party and the Left an opportunity to pursue a more humanitarian policy. But they do not choose it, because they are more concerned with the cooperation agreement than with the real humanitarian policy in Norway, they are more concerned with getting a review than with getting a change. I would have chosen a change if I had been in a power position to change. The opinion of the Central Party is that we should help those refugees who are most in need of help. If we are in the election between the 25-year-old and the 16-year-old, we believe it is right that Norway accepts the 16-year-old victim. That's the lead we want to have a majority, so I hope that the Christian People's Party and the Left, when it comes to the play, will join in today and vote for it instead of voting for a review. After we took the initiative yesterday, I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and the Left yesterday took a round with the government to get a review, but I think it's very weak that it was there when they got a little desperate because we in the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV came up with another initiative. Then there's another area where I think it's amazing which company Christian People's Party and Left chooses. It is in the discussion about tax-free quotas – charging policy. That it is a major priority for the Christian People's Party and the Left to use so much resources to increase the tax-free quotas is completely incomprehensible to me. Then the Christian People's Party will say: we are not on the proposal. But they're on the team and they're two hands right in that case. I don't think it's right. I think it's nice. They should rather be part of the Senter Party's proposal to increase the number of quota refugees. It would have been a more correct and better priority. On humanitarian issues, the Christian People's Party and the Left have chosen completely wrong partners. Had they gone to the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV, they had received a larger aid budget. They had had more quota refugees, and they had a more sensible and restrictive alcohol policy and were able to use those resources in other areas. Another area where the Left and Christian People's Party has chosen completely wrong is district policy. When we see what kind of treatment we had of the budget before Christmas, it was completely systematic. It was child-rescue in Finnmark. There were various cuts in Norwegian food production. It was cut in forestry. There were increased fees for the food industry. It was proposed to remove the CO2 compensation scheme. Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party secured it. There was an increased social security charge for businessmen. That was 430 million. less to regional development – to those who have new ideas and better solutions. The regional measures were systematically cut. It would have been a pleasure for me if the Christian People's Party and the Left could now have shown some of the new initiatives in district policy and regional policy. Where are the new offensive arrests for which the Christian People's Party and the Left have been implemented? Unfortunately, on the humanitarian side, they do not. Unfortunately, they do not do so in regional and regional policy either. They have been effective brake blocks a lot times, and I'm glad, but if they had chosen to go from being a brake block to being with someone who would give gas, they had the opportunity to do so by joining the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV and promoting suggestions there. What kind of things have we had this week? We've had a farm settlement. The Christian People's Party and the Left acted a bit like a brake pad, but the structure and profile of the farm was centralizing. We have had a hospital debate, where there was a discussion about the hospital structure, especially in Telemark, and where the Christian People's Party and the Left finally chose to support the fact that it is right to lay down the hospital in Rjukan. Fortunately, the team was also dropped yesterday by the Progress Party in response to that. They also chose to support the hospital in Kragerø. We have had a discussion about municipal structure, where the Christian People's Party and the Left unfortunately participated in giving a stamp of approval that force can be used to carry out what could be the centralisation reform of the times, if that actually happens. Today, a different employer’s fee is being changed dramatically. It has been our main regional policy tool since 1975. It shows how the EEA makes it difficult to have a good and active district policy for the whole of Norway. The compensatory measures that come in are not very close enough, and one goes from a light, simple solution with a lower charge to bureaucratic replacements. Anyone who has been a private trader knows this: If we had had the choice between getting a lower fee – for example. One million. NOK in our company – and if it would be 1 million. NOK more to the county road outside the company, we had chosen a lower charge. So the sum of measures goes in the negative direction and is very dramatic. From my own county, I can take Espeland transport as an example. They have 85 million. NOK in turnover and 50 employees. They say they're going to get 1.5 million. they are afraid that they will have to shut down their entire business in the light of it. According to the Ministry of Finance, only 200 transport companies will have an average of 2.5 million. kr in the fee increase. It's dramatic, and then we can't stand here and say that everything is very well. The measures put in place are too careful to compensate for the buying-in we now see. Then I would like to refer from a letter that was sent from the Right-steered Tin Municipality to many of us at Stortinget yesterday. It states that Norway is in the greatest wave of centralisation over time, and that many communities experience a strong and increasing centralisation pressure from market forces and government powers. Furthermore, we can read that community-critical services are being removed from districts, and that citizens have to visit cities that are far away to meet their public and private needs. The letter also states that the closure of the local hospital in Tinn is the beginning of an even greater centralisation of Health-Norway, where patients in the districts are losing, and that the next major political step in centralisation is the notified municipal reform, where political and administrative power is to be centralised by extensive mergers of municipalities. Once again, there will be smaller communities far from the big cities that are hit hardest, the letter says. Furthermore, the letter sent by the Right-Handed Tinn municipality states that today’s central political environment has lost sight of the old slogan ‘By and Land – Hand in Hand’ – when cities grow, we need to meet this growth not only with urban policies but also with a new district policy. There is no contradiction between the city and the country, it is claimed: on the contrary, interdependence is becoming clearer — the more urbanisation and the better living standards, the more time and resources are spent by urban people in the districts on cabins and on outdoor life. Mountain municipalities such as Tinn and Vinje have become the secondary municipalities or leisure municipalities of urban people, we can read in the letter. I recommend all representatives of the Right to read the letter from Tinn. It is very clear, it is very precise, and it is a very clear clarification of the centralisation policy we are now seeing. At the end of the letter, the municipality of Tin encourages other municipalities to take the same discussion, because they see that in all areas – after we got the change of government – it has been centralisation. That's the answer. I challenge the Christian People's Party and the Left to give a few examples that it has taken opposite action – for decentralisation, for new, powerful district policy instruments – but unfortunately I don't think they can do it. But I look forward to the debate. I'm going to deal with the proposals that the Senter Party has put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1148	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has addressed the proposals referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1153	The new guidelines on regional aid were adopted by the European Commission as far back as 19 June 2013 and when reading the minority comment on the Central Party of the Int. 311 S for 2013–2014, it is clear that there is a great need to write their version of the story, of what has happened both in advance and after the decision of the European Commission. This case of a differentiated employer's fee is important to all of us. But when it's especially important for the Center Party, based on various opinions and comments, my question becomes to the representative Battle Violence Vedum: What did the Central Party do specifically to the European Commission both in advance and after the decision last summer, and what information was provided? What can be the result of the total lack of EU transposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1160	I noticed that from the beginning of March, when the government decided to present the changes, the main focus and the main point of government communication was to blame as much as possible on those who managed a year earlier. We never accepted those changes in a differentiated employer's fee. Then there was a lot of noise in March and at the beginning of April, both from the opposition here on the house and from the business world in large parts of District Norway, and the government then reluctantly chose to go a new round. What's a clear fact is that if you say yes first, it was okay, and then a new round goes, you weaken your negotiating power very much. Now it's going to be a third round, because we in Stortinget thought the government came along was too bad, especially in the transport sector, and the government is going to go a third round. Of course, for each round, the negotiating power of Norway is getting weaker and weaker. To meet the EU, which has its interests, one must be clear and dry to stand for Norwegian interests. We believe that the government has done so in a way that is too weak.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1165	It was in so far a bit of an article by the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum. I understand that it is of course a bit painful that the Center Party does not have the position in the district that they had in their time. I remind you that the Hordaland County is sending 16 representatives to the Stortinget, and the Central Party has its equalization mandate. Otherwise, it is to say that in the comments on this matter the Centre Party clarifies that they have chosen to give priority to some areas where a change in course is particularly required. It's always interesting to listen to the Center Party. Some of us have the impression that you can say a lot about the party, but that they are known to come up with new ideas and better solutions, is probably not exactly what appears there, to say it carefully. But the comments contain a very interesting point, which may indicate a change in course. Indeed, it is proposed to reduce the cost of county offices by 30 million. kr. This means that the Central Party is now taking up the bureaucracy in the public sector, and it can be elaborated on how these 30 million. kr to be saved?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1172	When we ran and put in government, the department that I ran, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, managed to reduce the cost of bureaucracy in the system for which I was responsible. We had reduced the number of bureaucrats because we thought it was right, and because we thought it was wise. Unfortunately, there were no such developments in other departments and directorates. We've always wanted that, and I personally think it's a challenge when the share that goes into administration and bureaucracy becomes too big. We have over time been one of the parties that has had the most critical comments about the regional state essing. It's nothing new, but it might be new for Hille. I notice that several people thought this was a very clear article, but it was just a summary of all the individual measures that the Right has taken after they came into government. There have been systematic cuts in district policy, large and small. My challenge to the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left now is: Do they have any offensive grips, do they have any new grips, any new measures, other than cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1179	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1182	I want to start in the same way that the representative, Mr Marthinsen, introduced, by pointing out that today we are handling a revised national budget, where very few real changes have been made to the budget that we adopted in November. There is a trend that we have seen over several years: the number of changes is decreasing during the treatment of RNB. In parentheses, and as a curiosity to mention, I also checked that it is not unusual for the parliamentary leaders not to participate in the debate, nor from the red-green parties. When the government now proposes to change to about 460 million. kr and the agreement between the Government Party and the Left and the Christian People's Party leads to further changes at about the same level – in a budget with an expenditure side expected at 116 billion. kr – we almost have to ask if a proper revised treatment is necessary, or whether we can take the minor changes that are, in ordinary and continuous re-prioritisation propositions, which will eventually be collected during the new age at the end of the year. So to the material content of what we're actually dealing with. The left has been agreed with the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progress Party on a joint agreement on the revised national budget for 2014. The left has been impressed by several things we called for when RNB was presented: We have strengthened the climate and environmental profile and strengthened public transport. We have been given increased access to the university and higher education sectors and ensure that part of the additional expenditure allocated to municipalities to kindergartens is compensated. To the extent that we can point out winners today, there are higher education, public travellers and the nursery sector. In addition, the left is pleased that there is now an extension of free core time in the kindergarten — it ensures that more children in low-income families can benefit from childcare services. The goal of the left is that all children in low-income families get free core time in kindergarten. There will be an important issue for the Left in the budget procedure for the autumn. Public transport in urban areas has increased by 65 million. kr, and a new paving regime for bicycles is in place, which initially receives 10 million. kr in the start-up phase. There's a scheme left has been in demand for too long, and we went to the choice to get implemented. The trigger for Transnova, as well as for Transnova. can be used to facilitate more use of hydrogen cars, is a well targeted contribution to reducing climate emissions from the car park. As a result of the agreement, the university and higher education sectors receive a total of 50 million. kr more for the rest of 2014, broken down by state universities and higher education institutions and private higher education institutions. In addition, the institute sector, the new research institute, receives an increase of 15 million. kr. I assume that several well-established research institutes – among others. Uni Research in Bergen, Polytec in Haugesund and Teknova in Kristiansand/Grimstad – will be relevant for inclusion in the basic funding scheme as a result of today's left-hand approach. Perhaps the most enjoyable thing about the treatment of RNB is the use of oil money. Firstly, responsible use of oil money is important from a generation perspective. Oil money shall primarily secure the pension obligations for future generations. Secondly, a sober fiscal policy is necessary to reduce the pressure on the economy and to keep a low level of prices and interest rates. Thirdly, a responsible fiscal policy is important for competitive business. Before I come to an end, I will briefly make a new proposal on quota refugees, on behalf of the Left, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for guidance on the withdrawal of transfer refugees, set out on 16.06.2010, in the light of experience gained from the withdrawal of Syrian refugees in the spring of 2014.’» In the last minutes of the speaking time of this staging session, I will be looking forward – towards the budget work of the house. The left is immodest in many areas. If we are to strengthen the climate agreement, if we are to achieve the ambitious goals, we must have a state budget that is in line with the objectives of the climate agreement, and not the opposite, as it has been for many years. It will be a major task for the Left in the budget procedure of the House to ensure just this: a government budget that contributes to a new offensive in environmental and climate policy. An important element is a green tax shift that promotes environmentally friendly choices through reduced taxes and taxes, and the opposite for those who, for various reasons, choose environmentally hostile. The whole point of a green tax shift is just to turn behavior. It is very good that a green tax commission should be set down, and that the government has followed it up very quickly – a proposal left forward in the previous period, and as the red-green voted down. However, we do not have time to wait for all the Commission conclusions. We can and must make important changes to the tax system already in the autumn. Another area is a large-scale investment in education, education and knowledge. We need a shift in continuing education for teachers who are more than math, and we need to get at a completely different pace in the process of escalating and investing in higher education and research. The future of Norway is in the knowledge-based, innovative and environmentally friendly business world – the business world that will gradually take over as the driver of the Norwegian economy after oil. Norway also has all the means to maintain its position as one of the world's largest energy nations, when renewable energy has taken over as the dominant energy source in some generations. Such conversions must begin now, in the budget coming to the autumn. We must be able to get ahead of work against poverty in the families of children. Too many children grow up in poverty-like conditions in Norway – in Norway anno 2014. It's bad, it's unworthy. That we haven't been able to do anything about this in the nine years that we've spent behind us is directly embarrassing. Verdigheita must come into the budget in the fall. One of the steps left looks forward to with tension, is our old fight bag, differentiated maintenance payment in kindergarten. This will lead to real redistribution. We also need to make everyday life easier for entrepreneurs and the smallest businesses. In this way, the Stortinget made an important decision this year, when an aggregate increase came to an end on the proposal from the Left on a review of the framework conditions for individuals, such as fiscal conditions, social rights, measures to simplify, access to capital and the setting-up and efforts of the public agency. The first proposals in the cooling water of yesterday's decision should come together on 8 October. The treatment of the revised national budget leads to some small steps in the right direction. To the fall we must take some major steps in the right direction – towards the environmentally friendly future we together are forced to create.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1223	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1226	In Oslo, for a number of years, we had the political situation in the city council that we have today on the Stortinget – Left and Christian People’s Party as supporting parties for a blue-blue Right-front party government. Every year, every harvest, the budget was to be negotiated by the City Council with the supporting parties. There was a lot of stamina and drama in the press and in the scenes, but the result was always the same. The finance agency had wisely cut down when it came to public transportation, bicycle routes, and church buildings. Every year the Left and Christian People's Party got their fanatical affairs back in. Is this a form of cooperation characterized by respect and trust? Now we see the same thing in Stortinget. Siv Jensen presented revised budgets with obvious shortcomings, such as a promised cycling and under-financing of kindergartens. The left had to use its political capital to negotiate matters Right or the Progress Party could not be ahead of it. Isn't this selling yourself a little cheap? I want to ask the representative: Hasn't the Left learned anything from its own experience from Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1241	I can only show you the results obtained from a red-green budget. When it comes to the key policies of the Left, the climate, knowledge and the fight against poverty, the 2014 budget is significantly strengthened in all areas, compared to the starting point of the Red-Green Government. The big test of cooperation comes in the 2015 budget, where the government itself has control of far more variables than they had in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1248	I am absolutely sure that the Left agrees with the Senter Party's proposal that greater human consideration should be given to accepting quota refugees. That's the goal of the left. That's why I was really happy last night, when I realized that the Left thinks it's difficult to vote for our proposal, and that you wanted to promote another one that you could take control of yourself. Then I thought that now we're going in the right direction, and then it's not that dangerous who gets the credit for it. However, I was somewhat disappointed when I read the proposal that was a response. I've been sitting in both big and government for a few years, and I'm beginning to see the difference between good intentions and action. Here it was almost not good intentions even. So I was incredibly surprised, because it ended up having a review of guidelines. That is how I also sent to Stortinget when I would not have done anything. Why on earth don't the Left vote for what the party is for, and help the refugees, instead of getting a review?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1257	Left parts and appreciate the involvement of Battle Violence Vedum and the Center party when it comes to the heartless, acute and critical situation in Syria. As President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Vedum, of course, is aware of this, and as has been mentioned several times in today's debate, today's receipt of quota refugees is welcome in the June 2010 guidelines. We are therefore pleased that in a cooperation – where there are negotiations, and where there is always a need to take and give – we have a number of people, in conjunction with the Christian People's Party and the Government Party, that a now should review and reconsider these guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1264	Today is the World Day of Refugees, and the UN reports that there have never been any more refugees in the world. The crisis in Syria, and not least in neighbouring countries, where Jordan has now closed the borders of multiple reception, is disastrous. The left has now chosen to vote in favour of the Socialist Left's proposal to accept more refugees. The left has entered into an agreement with the government where it shall not be permitted to accept split families, only those which are the most integrable shall be accepted. Throughout the spring, the party has been completely paralysed in one of the areas that I thought were important to the Left, and so now we are promoting a proposal for a review of the guidelines, without saying anything about the content. I'm very surprised at the left now, and I'm going to ask, is this supposed to lead to change? And will it also lead to changes to the agreement on the restrictions that are there, which are not humanitarian?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1273	Without repeating myself, I believe I am taking the time to remind the representative and the room that we have been dealt with in the negotiations with the emergency situation of the Syrian children. We have been given arrangements to provide permanent solutions. I referred to the proposal for which there is a plurality today, to review today's guidelines, which the previous government adopted. In the revised budget, we have received a verbal proposal asking the government to assess the incentive for faster deployment of single minor asylum seekers. The same thing has been followed up in the municipal proposition, where one has actually strengthened the permissions of the exact same add-on arrangement. So that's a good part we've achieved, compared to what was the starting point from the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1280	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1283	Almost five billion years ago, our solar system arose. A cloud of molecules, consisting primarily of hydrogen, became our sun. In the pattern stream that followed, our planet arose. And a billion years later, simple cells arose. A billion years ago, the multicellular life was created, and animals were raised 400 to 500 million years later. The oldest remains of us humans, in our modern form, are about 200,000 years old. Our closest relative, the Neanderthals, was wiped out 25 000 years ago. Over the past 25 000 years, we've built cities, we've built land, we've created agriculture, we've learned to act, we've developed religion, we've invented the wheel, and we've mastered the fire. We've created the most amazing works of art of love and love, and we've spent millions of hours working on perfecting the art of killing each other most effectively. We've fought warriors for the most basic and the most insignificant and incomprehensible reasons, we've learned to pattern hate, but we've also learned to tame it. We have condemned sexuality, and we have cultivated it. We've created education systems that explain our way here, from the big bang 13.7 billion years ago, and we've created education systems that deny it. We have created secular societies and religious ones. We have built industry and created a new economic everyday life for billions of people. We've used millions of people as slaves and later cheap labor to make it possible for people other than those who slaved and worked to benefit from it. We have created economic systems in which our natural resources, our working hours, even our bodies, our uterus and our sexual organs can be valued and are the objects of transaction, and until today, there are many places in the world so that even children are not spared purchase and sale. The hard logic is that everything from nature, everything from our heads – ultimately – and our bodies can be measured from one value, and that's money. We're very small in that perspective, and we're given a short time. That is why I have never understood those who want to make us even less, those who have thatcher as a model, as the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister has said, Thatcher, who said: 'There is no such thing as society', those who face the short time we have, the enormous challenges millions of people face, the gross and unfair division of wrong that makes life into millions of people on earth a nightmare, the 50 million refugees we are talking about today, for example. – that these people, who believe this, say that the state and welfare state and community are the problem, that it is the taxes we share, that is the problem. Those who own people's jobs and think they get too little for themselves have never understood, those who make fools of words like 'community' and 'cohesion', those who believe that the short bluff we have of welfare state in the history of mankind is a burden and not a relief, those who write all books about it and call it 'well-being' by the welfare state, such as our current minister of knowledge, those who celebrate their short presence here in the world to squander as much as possible out of temporary employees of young people or students who cannot afford to buy housing, or fight everything they can against us accepting several refugees to one of the richest countries in the world, not just now, but throughout the history of humanity, those who clear the streets of the city for poor beggars, so that the trading order to be at peace, and press through this clearing up with xenophobic rhetoric. Less than a year ago, Prime Minister candidate Erna Solberg was on TV and said she had a generation perspective on what she was working on. It's hard to understand when you look at the government's efforts so far. I see no generation perspective in Minister of Justice Anundsen's shameful campaign against the weakest people in our society. I don't see any generational perspective in refusing to accept more refugees. I don't see a generation perspective in not funding the apprenticeships and kindergartens of the smallest. We have a new government that systematically uses its time to make us less human and tell us that we are less valuable. They operate a systematic redistribution of money – from ordinary people to the richest in the country, through the tax system. A common assistant gets 70 cents the day of Siv Jensen, Helge Lund gets tens of thousands of dollars in tax cuts, and men get almost twice as much tax cuts as women do. Let human rights give way to business interests in China – so does the government, because they make us less in front of the world. They say that damaged acids are too much to bear for Norway, so we can't accept any more. They ensure that regular work is no longer a matter of course in Norway, but exceptionally, something that one must strive for — with all the uncertainty, all the differences it brings. They say that there is no longer any point in letting workers in the industry be on leave in difficult times, they will lose their jobs instead. The ideological one-way drive of the government leads to real people losing real jobs — right now. It is pointless, but it is ideologically satisfactory for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. They leave off to correct the mistakes they themselves have made, but do not explain why. We know that hundreds of millions of dollars are missing for more children to get a good start on life in kindergarten – which they have the right to. But the majority doesn't do anything about it anyway. Both in the refugee question and in this case, this government of enforcement says that no, we are bound by previous guidelines and calculation models, but they later as if there is not a minority government we have, they later as if the Storting were not sovereign, and sadly, it is that the Left and Christian People's Party, which has an alternative majority to go to – in the kindergarten case, in the refugee case – chooses to save the Progress Party on the issue of refugees. We know that millions of dollars are missing for apprenticeships, so that more people get a good start in working life – not at all – we know that the crisis in Syria is beyond most humanitarian crises ever, the need is enormous, the need is enormous, and neither the Progress Party, the Right, the Left or the Christian People's Party finds room to do anything about it. In SV, we are to give priority first, and that's solidarity. That's why we're proposing to set at 600 million. to receive up to 5000 Syrian refugees. The disaster in Syria is almost incomprehensible to its extent. We can afford to help many more and receive more people who need help, whether they are hurt or not. Our neighbouring country Sweden is embarrassing Norway in its efforts for Syrian refugees. It's time for solidarity. So that's also going to be 200 million. NOK 50 million for emergency aid to Syria. kr to the Central African Republic. None of these means are taken from existing means of assistance. SV won't set the world's suffering up against each other. We've been so good to stand up for those who need it. We can afford that if that's what we want to give priority to instead of strengthening the 5 pst. the richest in Norway and their position in meeting everyone else. It is time for solidarity in Norway. The government, represented by the Minister of Labour, who just arrived, is in the process of amending and revoking the Working Environment Act and making temporary work the norm. This creates job insecurity and greater differences between people. We propose to reverse the government's amendment to the law on permitting. Both LO and NHO are deeply concerned about what will come, and more workers will be dismissed. For what? Is it to satisfy the ideological impulses of the Right and the Advancement Party? It just doesn't last. In addition to being tragic for those affected, our government's policy forces our industry for the necessary competence and continuity. The people who lose their jobs as a result of the changes the government has made are not statistics, it's real people who have real experience in real business. The companies lose these experiences now, they lose skilled workers, and the workers lose their income. There has been no lack of bourgeois politicians who have stood on the pulpit here today and said that the revision has been revised, no major changes should be expected. But revised is an opportunity to adjust the course, correct errors, address more urgent and urgent challenges in tax-free wine. That's what SV is proposing. We will give priority to the most important things for people in Norway and for people in the world who need us to do it. We'll take, for example, Green tax intervention to bring us closer to the zero-emission society, because action is needed now. In general, we're all very small, and the world is very large. But every day we have the opportunity to do something. And it's just to notice what the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are using the opportunity to do something about it. It is with pleasure that I address the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1313	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1318	In the note, the representative Serigstad Valen writes that the government ‘neglects a clear responsibility for the welfare of people by deliberately underfunding an important welfare offer’ because of errors in the calculation of nursery places. But the red-green last greeting to the children's families was to provide a budget where they remove the cash support. We like it or not, but the cash support was a lifeline for all the families who discovered what red-green neo-talk about full babysitting really meant. The red-green would only give 241 million. SEK of the 1.5 billion. it would cost to introduce two kindergarten admissions per year. That means that two thirds of the families who needed childcare would have been without both childcare and cash support for childcare. This was a deliberate underfunding, which had hit at the base of 6,000 families with children — a wild policy towards an estimate that did not work. Why did SV deliberately want to subfinance the welfare of most people in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1325	SV and the other red-green parties chose to cut off the cash support because it is an old-fashioned scheme that gets feminist not only in the Right, but in all other parties, to blush in shame. Kindergartens are a much, much better welfare offer, and we in SV do not have the faith in schemes where you have to pay people money because they do not use a welfare offer. That's why last year, in our state budget, we made sure to finance the phase-in of two babysittings this year. It chose their right and co-operation parties to deprioritize them entirely, but they used opposite logic: strengthened cash support and cut down massively in kindergarten funding. There are many more families that will suffer in the long term, and there are not only poor welfare policies but also poor knowledge policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1330	We also treat Prop. 118 S, about differentiated employer's fee. In the setting, the representative, Serigstad Valen, has chosen to criticise the government in relatively strong order, among other things. he says that he is “strongly critical of how the government has chosen to carry out this process”. This case became known as early as last spring, when the then councillor Navarsete prided himself on the signals from the president of ESA, who, according to the then state council, must have said that the Norwegian requirement for exemptions should be dealt with. This was also said in this room. My question to Serigstad Valen is therefore: What measures did the previous government take to ensure that this matter was properly and thoroughly dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1336	The representative of Holthe would like to think that dealing with a proposition that has a huge impact on business in the districts of Norway in four working days is sound, but I do not think so. I believe that this case illustrates the whole problem with the EEA Agreement, and that is that the Storting is set aside. It is undemocratic, and it is a problem for all those in District Norway who have to pay the price for it. I believe that the compensation system the government came up with, is not good enough at all. It's not like if a company loses 1 million. It helps to use 1 million kroner. kr extra on a country road nearby. Therefore, SV today proposes that we ask the government to come back with a proper case for Stortinget, where those who actually experience a cut as a result of this receive real compensation. Before the Progress Party came into government, I think they would be on that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1341	At first I'm allowed to give some praise. Snorre Serigstad Valen is a strong rhetoricist on behalf of his party. But it is clear that there will be some adjectives of it too, and when you talk about feminist blundering in the shame of cash support – you world, eight years in government! There has been a lot of redness then, I guess, because there is a scheme that SV has not only been in, but has even increased for certain groups. But I want to ask a question, because SV is at least economically viable when you cut the cash support in the revised budget. One hundred-million-dollar sluts. kr, because you realize that you can't take money that's already given, while the Workers' Party is cutting by 200 million. NOK and should therefore have money back from those who have had cash support earlier this year. My question is, how does it feel to be so much more economical than the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1348	In a number of cases dealing with the revised national budget this year, we will see that SV is in many ways the most economically responsible party. We find a lot of money for re-prioritisation, but we cover it with real balancing, and therefore we do not believe that the cut Workers' Party does in the cash support is realistic. We have a six-month effect on our cut, because it will apply from 1 July. Then there is reason to remind the representative of Syversen that when the red-green government took over and SV took over the Ministry of Knowledge, there were 62 365 recipients of cash support in Norway – and by 31 December 2012 there were 12 547. So I believe that SV has nothing to say about. We have carried out the children's gardening revolution with full child care coverage, and of course this has led to many tens of thousands of fewer cash beneficiaries. There I am proud of SV's efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1355	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1358	The Green Party is clearly committed to everyone else who finds that we are in an exceptionally good and fortunate economic situation in this country, compared to virtually all other countries. It is of course good and commendable that both the previous and current government obviously have good governance and a responsible follow-up to the Norwegian economy. It's a pleasure for everyone. Then there are three major things that affect the debate we have on the revised national budget today. One is the fact that Norway’s economy is very special in an international context and may not be expected to be so special in the long term. We have work for everyone, we have a stable economy, we have profits on the trade balance, and we have a lot of money in the bank called the State pension fund abroad. This is an economy that, in the phase of Norway's history that we are now in, gives us an exceptional space for action, and space for action is the task of politics to use rational and responsible. The second point, of course, is that this year and last year, new reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which, to an even greater extent, though still in a sobering language, demonstrate that the earth and humanity are on a course that, if it continues unchanged, will lead to gigantic costs for human welfare and for the economy, including the Norwegian economy. The third point is that we have a government with support parties, and to the extent that a whole big one, which repeatedly emphasizes exactly this seriousness that the United Nations Climate Panel tells us, and that underlines that we are going to make the big changes. We have an environmental protection minister who is still out here in the United Kingdom, who has stressed that the transition to the sustainable zero-emission society must begin now and that we must be there in a few decades' time. In other words, that's now this action has to come, that's now we have the space for action, that's now we have the tasks, and that's now this has to be reflected in politics. There are a few other places where you can see this concretely, and you have to see this concretely reflected, in a clearer way than in a government budget. So it's obvious that the first revised budget for a new government is not the place for the very biggest economic downcasts. However, there is a place where it is relevant to look for the right signals to follow up the policy that the government itself repeatedly stresses is very important. In this budget we find good things. We find an increase over three years to the climate and energy fund, but the effect of this will not be until early 2017, when it is uncertain whether this government will continue its mandate. We don't know what to use, if any, the extra return that will come from that fund, for the plans are not yet available. We have a good signal about a green tax commission. There is something Norway needs and needs for a long time, and it will be exciting to see what might come out of it, but it is not that there are no good measures that could have been implemented already. We're getting a 65-million signal. kr for additional collective investment in cities. It's a good signal, but it's not a gigantic sum, and it's worth noting that at the same time we get some other signals, and that's that the government spends about 100 million. kr to make suspension engines cheaper, and 100 mills. to increase the volume of alcohol sales at airports. I've said today in the newspaper that this is a stupid policy, and that's stupidly said, because you don't have to call other people's policies stupid until it's absolutely necessary. However, I have also said that it is a policy of Tyrol, and that is what I stand for. And what is tifoli policy? Well, it's politics that can always be nice, but that's public money that doesn't satisfy any of the needs and doesn't have any real benefit. That is why the Green Party is pleased today to propose two entirely concrete measures that can replace these measures within the corresponding sums, but which will have a significant and growing impact and which will reflect the government's climate promises in a far better way than the government's own promises. One proposal is to remove VAT on electric bicycles, a rather small measure, which can and should give electric bicycles the promise that technology needs, because this is in cities and cities a technology that can replace cars on a large scale and which will be very good for people, which will make road costs and parking costs much lower, etc., etc. – typically the small kick-start that can make a big change and have a big effect, and also give people a better everyday life. The second is solar investment aid through Enova. Norway is the worst in Europe on solar photovoltaics, it is most expensive to start solar photovoltaic installations on its own house in Norway, because there is no market at all. In Denmark, such a small-incentive market has been established and the market has become huge. There are providers of all services, and you can have solar panels installed for a fraction of that price and the slave it will cost to do it in Norway. Thus, there are two simple, cheap measures that can replace tifoli measures and that the government can get free of charge from the Greens, with the result that they deliver a better environmental policy and climate policy in revision. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Central Party for their very good proposal to meet the request of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to increase the share of Syrian refugees. We are going to vote in favour of that proposal. I come straight from a meeting with representatives of the Syrian Kurds, crammed into a small area on the border with Turkey – 2.5 million inhabitants, Kurds and many other ethnic groups. They have received half a million refugees from the terrible situation they are surrounded by, and in the very difficult situation they themselves are in. This is the basis for comparison of Norwegian refugee policy. With this, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1388	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, has taken up the proposals No. 33 and 34 on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1391	Last year the government launched a budget with the first steps to turn the Norwegian economy and society in a new and better direction, a direction that makes everyday life easier for most people, because we provide more secure, good jobs, and a further development of welfare services, which provides more freedom and security for the inhabitants. We have continued this work every day since we joined the government. The revised budget is not the place for major new investments. Nevertheless, we have managed to do some grips that pull in the same direction as we started in the fall. We're holding on to the course we strung out last fall. We have removed the inheritance tax, reduced the wealth tax, reduced the corporate tax and personal tax, while at the same time making the necessary reforms, for the most part for the people. If we are to maintain growth in the economy and further develop services for the population, we need to facilitate increased productivity and better resource use. We're going to spend $141 billion on the budget this year. That's 2 billion. kr more than added to the land in the autumn. Of course, the use of oil revenues needs to be adapted to the situation in the economy, but at the same time the use of oil money is crucial. The use of oil money shall provide the basis for a high-growth economy today and in the future. The government is therefore reducing the overall level of taxation, and we are increasing investment and knowledge. At the same time, government is increasing pressure on reforms that strengthen the growth capacity of the economy. We are dealing with a revised budget at a time when the countries around us are still affected by the financial crisis, by the imbalances that have developed in advance, and by the severe setback that followed. Fortunately, we now see signs of improvement in several places. Nevertheless, many countries are struggling. In the euro area, high unemployment and value creation are still lower than before the financial crisis. In such a perspective, the situation in the Norwegian economy is favourable. Although economic growth in Norway slowed down slightly last year, both production and employment have increased since 2008. Unemployment is low both historically and compared to other countries. For this year and next year, we expect a growth in the value creation of the mainland economy of about 2 pst. This is in line with last year's results, but a little bit lower than last year's results. It's also a little bit lower than the average over the last 40 years, about 2.5 pst. Employment continues to increase and unemployment is expected to remain below the average for the last 25 years. That doesn't mean we're free from challenges. Recent growth mitigation needs to be seen in the context of these challenges. Since the turn of the millennium, activity in the Norwegian economy has been attracted by a marked improvement in Norway’s external trade. High oil prices have given rise to high activity on the Norwegian base. The demand from the petroleum industry has given strong growth impulses to the Norwegian mainland economy. But we have to assume that this image will change. The downwind we've had from oil companies will gradually turn to a cautious headwind. Oil industry will continue to be very important to us, but it will no longer contribute to uplifting the growth of the mainland economy. It's a break in the trend over the last 40 years. It will require conversion. Although Norwegian companies have shown good adaptability during the construction of the oil industry, such conversions are likely to be much more demanding when the same activity is being dismantled. A higher cost level in Norway than in other countries will contribute to making these changes more demanding. High costs already make many Norwegian companies vulnerable today if the price would fall or the krona would increase. In the revision, we point out that the impact on the Norwegian economy of weaker oil demand will also depend on how rapidly the changes are coming. A third challenge I would like to point out is the decline in productivity growth we have had since 2005. There's a development that there's reason to be concerned about. In the long term, the well-being of Norway is primarily determined by the development of labour input and productivity. Over the last 40 years, we have been waiting for sustained high growth in the standard of living. If we are to maintain this growth, productivity growth needs to rise. This means that we need to increase the reform pressure both in general government and in the rest of the economy. We cannot rely on favourable price developments on our exports to ensure high incomes in the future. I expect the Productivity Commission to give us good advice on how to increase productivity in the Norwegian economy. However, the government is not holding hands and waiting. We've started work on reducing taxes, we've started working on the community reform, we've started to go through the Working Environment Act and other legislation, and we've set up a selection of experts to go through the Nav business. The government is pursuing a policy that increases the competitiveness of industry and thus enables it to create greater values and secure jobs for the future. The government is working to give business good, general framework conditions, a predictable tax system, better infrastructure, the ability to employ competent employees and access to capital. Tax is not a goal, it's a means. The government will use the tax system to finance common resources, ensure social mobility, achieve more efficient resource use and improve conditions for Norwegian business. Private ownership should be strengthened, and more money should be paid to work, save and invest. The government will also stimulate more environmentally friendly behaviour. The government reduces the overall level of taxation in order to increase the spread of power, increase the creation of value and give greater freedom to families and individuals. In the 2014 budget, the government took the first steps to turn the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian society, and we stick to it. It is possible for us to do some reinforcements of the priorities we laid down in the harvest, among other things. by further increasing the efforts on the teaching promise and the return of persons without legal residence and criminals. We also propose to strengthen the legal certainty of taxpayers by tightening the transparency of the tax lists and by making the tax-free system more flexible. We also propose to remove the entire fee for boat engines. It is a very resource-intensive charge to levy, and removing it is in line with the government’s objective of simplifying the tax system. It will also benefit the boat people. New engines fight less and are more fuel-rich and will be an incentive to replace old engines. Finally, let me also give the Finance Committee and the Stortinget a reward for the prompt treatment of the differentiated employer’s fee. It's an important thing that has been a broad consensus for many years is a very targeted tool, which we've been holding on to all the challenges that have met us over a long number of years. I have noticed the broad agreement in the setting. I have also noticed several of the requests, and these will be followed up by the government in an appropriate manner. I am also pleased that the government in its work towards the EU succeeded in making improvements to the system that was originally on the table. It is about targeted and systematic dialogue with European authorities, and we have come up with the argument that it is possible to get a narrower definition of how this system should work. But I also want to make sure that the government is going to follow developments closely. The new scheme is starting to work on 1 July, and we will be in close dialogue with the business community concerned to see if there should be other changes in the time to come. Finally, let me take the opportunity to wish Stortinget a good summer and thank you for constructive cooperation throughout this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1438	I return the wish for a good summer! When the Minister of Finance held a press conference and presented the changes to the budget, she presented the changes to the tax-free system as an act of freedom of choice. I believe that it says a lot about what the Minister of Finance sees as the important challenges in our society, when she believes that more wine on dutyfree is an important freedom reform to be carried out in the middle of the year. So the government itself has calculated that it will cost about 80 million. kr in year. For quite exactly half of that sum, 40 million. kr, the government could use its freedom of choice to reverse the changes to the legislation on leave which require more than one company to be entitled to resign. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Does the Minister of Finance think that those who now lose their jobs think that more wine on dutyfree is a good priority in this year's revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1449	What I think is that it is pointless to put changes in the tax-free system up against the Norwegian labour market. The government is betting on both. We have said throughout this year that we will follow developments in the labour market closely. There are no signals at this stage to indicate that we should make changes to the permitting legislation. But if that is what is needed by a worsening of the situation in the Norwegian labour market, the government will come back to it. I have also previously asked the Workers' Party to wait to press the alarm button until the situation calls for it. At the moment, we have low unemployment and high employment and a significant degree of mobility in the Norwegian labour market, and we should be pleased about that. I can assure you that the situation should call for it, we will also present the necessary legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1456	I heard the Minister of Finance say in his statement that the unemployment rate will be lower this year than the average over the past 25 years. It's kind of a creative way of expressing it that unemployment is on its way up. Then the Minister of Finance repeats her points from the last time she was in the Questionnaire, that she should follow closely, but that she sees no sign that it is necessary to make changes to the law on permitting now. In the questionnaire she even said that she has not registered that there are more people who leave. No, that's just the point; there's fewer that permits because it gets too expensive. The alternative is not to have employees in the job, it is to cancel them directly. Since she is now saying again that she will follow the situation closely and possibly come back to the Storting if the situation so warrants, is it, as the Minister of Finance himself is warning of increasing unemployment, that we can expect the Minister of Finance to return to the Storting? And can she say something about how serious the situation must be before she believes it is reasonable to propose to reverse the changes made to the permitting arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1464	It's not that many days since I was in the spontaneous questioning class and I answered these questions, and the situation hasn't changed in those days. I believe that we should be happy that there is still high and increasing employment in Norway. Because that's the basic image. We have low leave, and it is considerably lower than any other country it would be natural to compare us with. Then I believe that we use the dramatic instruments only when the situation becomes dramatic, and there's nothing to suggest that we're close by. But I've been saying all along, ever since the government introduced a normalization of the changes in the law on permitting, that changing the situation becomes worse, of course the government will follow it up in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1471	In my post – which I then made the head of Finance Minister Jensen move very actively, so it's clear that she was coming along, and that's a good sign – I summed up some of the different district cuts that the Progress Party has been at the head of along with the Christian People's Party, Left and Right. In recent times, there has been a huge debate on the centralisation of hospitals and hospital preparedness, especially in Kragerø and in Rjukan, the municipality of Tinn. On the 1st May train, I went side by side with the local team leader in the Progress Party, where we fully agreed that we should maintain, secure and develop preparedness in Tinn and their neighbourhoods. Now there is no local team leader in the Progress Party anymore, because they have said that they should report the entire team out of the Progress Party. What is the comment made by Siv Jensen that the Tinn Progress Party now believes that the Progress Party is completely failing in Rjukan's preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1480	I think it's a pity that the local layer is now being laid down. But what I'm most concerned about is how we set up the tools in the overall health policy to bring down waiting times. The government has record appropriations for the hospital sector in 2014. We have strengthened the effort-driven funding. A short time ago, the government also presented proposals on how to increase freedom of choice and flexibility by exploiting the opportunities for closer cooperation with health professionals. That'll be good. And what I'm particularly proud of is that the government also focuses more strongly on the possibilities of getting up the treatment offer in both drugs and psychiatry. There are two areas that have been grossly neglected, and as this government puts it first, simply because it is the weakest that need help through our health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1489	I am somewhat surprised that Minister of Finance Siv Jensen does not at all express concern about local preparedness, but starts talking about free hospital choice when my question was about preparedness in Telemark, and about those who were formerly Siv Jensen's largest supporters in that area, now feel completely failed and therefore goes to the dramatic step of notifying them to lay down their entire community. After all, the party of progress has tried to profile itself as a party for most people. John Alvheim was a strong figure from the county – very clear and very clear. Now it is the Progress Party that has the most important department, the Ministry of Finance, which now approves the local preparedness to be deployed in the county. Is it a policy we're also going to see from the Progress Party in other counties, or are you going to say no to the kind of hospital closures in later rounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1498	Both the Advance Party and the government are concerned that we should have a good hospital structure across the country, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Health will be able to give the representative Battle Violence Vedum more detailed feedback on how the government intends to handle this in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1503	Good summer to the minister of mine too. I really hope that she will have access to a good and, not least, well - arranged holiday. In connection with the 2014 State Budget Agreement between the Government Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, it was also decided to introduce VAT exemptions relating to the purchase and leasing of batteries for electric cars. The decision is currently not sanctioned as a result of ESA notification. In view of the fact that Norway has for the longest time been granted a VAT exemption on an electric car, this should be within the formality. So my question to the Minister of Finance is short and good: how is this work going, and when can we expect the government to implement the decision on big business?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1512	Of course, the government has followed up that unit between the four parties. We are in the process of doing this, and I want to make sure that the representative Breivik is informed about when we can expect a result of the work being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1517	To say that unemployment in the future will be lower than the average of unemployment in the last 25 years is a very ‘financial ministry’ way of saying that unemployment will rise. I think I and the finance minister can agree on that. But I wonder why the Minister of Finance and the Government has changed the law of the permit when they say they want to change it again, if it has any effect. What is the logic of the grip the government has done, when the NHO is against it, when the LO is against it, and we know that more will lose the job in the time to come? Would it not have been just as good to fail to implement what the Minister of Finance calls a normalisation of the law of permitation, and leave the rules as they are, giving predictability to industry and predictability in everyday life to thousands of Norwegian workers in industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1524	Changes were made to the regulatory framework for outsourcing in the context of the financial crisis. Then we had a situation that caused that change. Now we don't. It is therefore important to stress why the type of legislation should be used symmetrically. It has been done by alternating governments and accumulation over many years, precisely because instruments work best when it is necessary to implement them. Normalising legislation in a normal situation is not particularly alarming. What I think is more alarming is that someone is trying to create the impression that the situation in the Norwegian labour market is more dramatic than it is. We have low unemployment, we have increasing employment – that's the situation. We're supposed to be happy about that. Then we're going to use the tools and the opportunity to premise that we're still strengthening opportunities for new investments and more jobs in Norway. And that's what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1531	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1534	The first year of this growth period is immediately over, and I will also take the opportunity to thank you for an exciting and instructive year. I have had the pleasure of sitting on the Finance Committee, and I would like to thank the chairman and members of the Committee from all parties for their good cooperation. We agree on important areas in political Norway, and the main features of the State budget presented by the Stoltenberg government have continued. At the same time, the Workers' Party takes a hint, and we realize that we have not been a preferred partner for the majority. It was determined by the election outcome, and it is confirmed by the direction the majority has chosen – a direction the Labour Party cannot join. If we look at the sum of the decisions that have drawn a different direction, it's still so that the big tax cuts dominate the picture. This is where the big money goes. Of new interventions in this budget, there are ten times more tax cuts than money in addition to health, police and teachers combined. The initiative was made possible by increasing the use of oil money. It is a clear priority, but it was not very important, either when the government budget was adopted or when the revised budget was presented. The Minister of Finance's sales argument for the revised budget was also cheaper tax-free and lower charge on suspension engines. No government has assumed responsibility for a country in a better constitution than the government did in the harvest. In the third quarter of 2005 to the third quarter of 2013, 350,000 new jobs were created in this country. More than two out of three came outside the public sector. The pension fund was more than tripled, the high value creation was well distributed between enterprises and employees, and the large amount of money was used to strengthen Community solutions for all rather than tax cuts. In the period 2006–2013, Norway was one of the very few countries in the world where differences between people were reduced. The revised budget provided an opportunity to rectify some of the decisions that were taken in the autumn, and we are now seeing the consequences. Unfortunately, the revised budget tells us about lost opportunities. It is not the 4,500 children's playgrounds the government bombed in its estimate, which is the budget winner, or the employees who lose the job because the government made it too expensive for the companies to leave employees to retain valuable skills in the company, instead of going to cancel, or the companies that were promised $50,000 in support if they took apprentices, but now only get a tenth because the government miscalculated also here, or those who suffer in Syria, where by prioritising we could give an extra handshake in the middle of the year. Let me say that the Labour Party supports the proposal of the Central Party to ask the Government to meet the request of the High Commissioner for Refugees, so that the proportion of transfer refugees from Syria with special medical needs is increased beyond the criteria so far used. It has been pointed out in the debate that for half of the costs of cheaper duty-free could be properly regulated. Was it so that all the challenges in the country were solved, I could have some understanding of the priority that the government did. But that's not the case. The government varies its use of language between drawing clouds on the horizon and saying that everything is going better and employment is increasing – as the Minister of Finance has just done. The representative Fleet was almost dazed in his image of what he saw in front of him. Do we see it again in the revised budget? Well, when Stoltenberg II presented its revised budget last year, it was with a growth package for traditional industry, where we among other things. proposed a reduction in company tax. I leave it to others to add the revised budget for 2014 to it for 2013 and assess the government's opinions in the light of this. The expanded tariff-free quota is a clear expression of a new political course, says the representative Hagesetter. He's right. What's in front of us? The representatives of the fleet's posts today drew an interesting picture of the outlook on the road further in their efforts to reduce competitiveness and what he calls galloping wage developments. It is difficult to see a grip in this budget that will do something about it. For example, I want to do this. Consider that the recent change in the Labour Environment Act is not a contribution to increased productivity. The tone of government parties is moving towards Norway's path to improved competitiveness is moving towards the low wages as a strategy. It is a bad strategy, and it violates a Norwegian tradition of investing in skills, trust, good dialogue and good cooperation between the social partners. The revised budget does little to rebuild that tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1554	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1557	First, I would like to congratulate the representative Jonas Gahr Støre on the leadership of the Workers' Party and wish him every success in that work. New leadership can give you a new direction, and of course we're excited to see that. But in this round I would like to draw attention to the so-called Syria billion proposed by the Labour Party in proposal No. Eight. First, I want to say that we share the concern about the situation in Syria and the challenges and human suffering that are down there. But in proposal No. 8, where the Workers' Party proposes to give 1 billion. kr to Syria, they ask that this be done within a re-priority, i.e. without even being clear on which other groups of the poor and the needy should take this money from. So we're probably left with the impression that the Labour Party here chooses to score a cheap point, with cheap money, and I'm a little questioning as to whether there's this new direction that the new leader of the Workers' Party has thought we'll see more of in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1564	In the government there are parties that cut the aid mid-year when they were in opposition, so here's a lot of other examples to show. These aren't cheap money and cheap points. It's fully possible within a 30-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. aid crowns to say that with the developments in Syria, it is I want to point to two main ways. One is that some of the projects we support through the aid budget – which are long-term budgets, and which are not about emergencies and humanitarian crises – can be pushed out a little in time and released some funds. The second is that at the end of each year there is money that has not been used, because projects do not always follow the calendar year. Today we can decide to be able to use that money – that we have 1 billion. kr extra – Syria. Priority is to move from different areas. A large budget such as the aid area, which the Progress Party in previous years has happily cut by billions of dollars in the middle of the year and at the end of the year, provides opportunities for responsible re-priority to bet on those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1577	In contrast to the tax and tax incentives, which the red-green government was responsible for, the government we now have stands for tax relief and tax relief. Tax breaks mean better competitiveness and safer jobs. It also means better purchasing power and more well-being for individuals and families. This I record that the representative Gahr Støre is against. My question is, if that's the wrong thing, then Jonas Gahr Støre at some point, some time, some time, some time, far, some time into the future, will be Prime Minister in Norway, what taxes and taxes will be increased? And what taxes and taxes, if any, are introduced – and reintroduced? This I mean that the Norwegian people, including the Stortinget, are quick to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1584	I like that the representative Hagesetter takes things ahead and starts preparing for questions he can work with thoroughly. I am not going to stand here today and give answers to this question in detail. That would be unprofessional. I can say that the Workers' Party is in favour of a fair, effective, predictable and redistributive tax system. We are opposed to tax increases that give a normal family a 50-eye a day – and that after the 50-eyes have been abolished – while the richest may have thousands of income. It is tax relief that is not growth-promoting. They contribute to differences, it's not to boost productivity in our society. If we remove the inheritance tax, as it has been done, and the entire wealth tax, as the government wants, two OECD countries will have more favourable taxation for rich people than Norway. It is not the development that has given Norway the starting point that makes us the country of highest employment, the lowest unemployment, the highest well-being and the highest trust. A tax system that is fair, redistributive, effective and predictable is the recipe of the Workers' Party. The voters will know very clearly what this will be about when the next elections come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1595	Since we have abolished the 50th ear, it's rounded up to one penny. In that case, there will be at least twice as much tax havens – so that is to say. I would like to congratulate Mr Gahr Støre, the new head of the Workers' Party. We're not as excited about him leaving the Finance Committee, but it might as well be the opportunity to meet in the Chamber. I have a question related to budgetary policy and the Workers' Party. The representative Gahr Støre has assigned a new family policy course. In any case, it was interpreted there when he was elected a new leader. In this revised budget, the Labour Party cuts the cash support to those degrees by taking the money that people have received from January to now, in order to balance their own budget. Not even SV does. My question is: is this an example of a new family policy course or a new way of budgeting from the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1608	I look forward to having discussions about family policy. I don't think I should say it's a new course. What I've been talking about is that we need to understand at any time what the situation of the families with young children and what I call the families with care is. I think it's based on a misunderstanding that we go in and cut. It is a proposal to increase the cash support from half-yearly impact this year that we do not agree with. The money that would go to it, we're going to dispose of it in a different way. I believe that this is in line with responsible budgeting. Should that not be the case, I shall be willing to elaborate it further on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1618	Many people take a well-deserved holiday when the Stortinget falls apart today, and many of us are going to spend a lot of our holiday in Norway. I think many look forward to visiting living communities along the coast and in the mountains all over the country. We are looking forward to morels from Hardanger, Norwegian strawberries and a cheese from the Golden Omvej. We are happy to rest our eyes on a green and lush cultural landscape. We have an amazing country, and Norway is blessed with resources that most people can hardly dream of. But these resources are not developed by themselves. It needs to be invested, and it needs to be invested throughout the country to develop these resources. This will also require the involvement of district industries, municipalities as welfare providers in District Norway and in the specific district policy. Looking at the overall impact of the policies of the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party, Norway will change in terms of district policy. We're going to change in a way that everyone loses, because the sum of government policies is going to have major consequences for Norwegian districts. The districts and people living there become systematically down priorities. The combination seen by the government of structural grips and economic downgrading of the districts speaks a very clear language. Centralization and larger units are almost whatever the question is. The district enemy measures to the government are bad enough in themselves, but it is the sum and the direction that is the big problem, and that in the longer term is going to be so harmful. The centralisation reform of the times is under way. Municipalities must be merged on a large scale whether they wish to do so or not. Exceptionally, it's called coercion. The district industries are being down-prioritized. We have seen it both in terms of agriculture and in terms of fisheries policy. The economic structure of the municipalities shows that the large and central municipalities, so-called growth municipalities, will get more, while the small ones will get less. Resources targeted specifically at district bets have been removed. In the budget last autumn, nearly half a billion dollars were removed only in regional development funds. We do not see them again in the revised budget now. Also, what would compensate for the differentiated employer’s fee is far from a compensation crown for crowns – as the government asked from the start. An example of this is a region in my county, Namdalen, which is closely linked to the landscape, resources and infrastructure of North Norway, and which has been seen in connection with a differentiated employer’s fee in the context of North Norway. It is excluded from important parts of the compensation. The government and the support parties do it completely systematically, and they do it with open eyes. I also think they're fully aware that the resistance is strong, but I think they're gambling that the majority, their voters, live elsewhere. The Right Party and the Advance Party have now had government powers for eight months. The Left and Christian People's Party helped them into the government quarter and has since been the government's faithful supporters. I've said it before, and that's reason to say it also in today's debate, that unfortunately it is that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not measure their victors from their own point of view, not on the basis of what can be achieved by a majority in the Great Britain, but on the basis of what they have reversed by the worst outbursts of government policy. Then it won't be big victories. The centre party has made a proposal here today, asking the government to meet the request made by the High Commissioner on the issue of Syrian refugees. That question cannot be raised by the Christian People's Party and the Left vote for, whether the leader of the Christian People's Party was on the radio at the latest yesterday and said that the line that the government is leading here is breaking with the Christian People's Party's view of human dignity. But they cannot vote for it today. Instead, they have been involved in presenting their own proposal, which is a purely assessment proposal. I have to say that it tastes of tactic to do it the way the Christian People's Party and the Left now do it, and there's starting to be a system over it as well. It is becoming a system that, instead of voting for your own proposals, you choose to make deferral proposals through assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1641	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1644	‘Taxed to the districts’, said the representative Arnstad. I will at least promise that we will not sleep as well as the Senter party did at the crucial moment in June 2013 when it was a differentiated employer's fee. I was sitting and listening to the district radio today, and I heard that there is a riot up in the north-east valley. Delayed treatment of the entire differentiated employer fee is requested. The north-east valley is the central part of the region, so I guess everyone knows where that idea comes from. But you have no idea what the risk is of keeping a system that the Minister of Finance said might be the most important district policy instrument we have. The question then arises: How dare the Senterpartiet put the entire differentiated employer fee at risk for its own needs, in order to fool the government into sleeping at the crucial moment in June 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1654	I understand that the government has intended to misjudge the entire debate on a differentiated employer's fee by claiming some things about what happened last year, which they cannot at all prove. What happened last June was the EU decision. I agree that it was important to follow up afterwards, and the question is, What did the government do in October and November to follow it up? We can probably keep discussing it, back and forth, for many years. But now we've come into the situation we've now come into, and we have to make adjustments. There is also the question: What schemes should now be used to avoid the most problematic impact? The Centre Party has strong views, among other things: the way in which these compensatory measures are implemented, inter alia. in the case of regions outside North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1661	Our government immediately took note of the bomb that lay there. I am in a variety of selections at Stortinget which deals with many EU issues, and I have seen what reaction was among the red-greens when you actually realized what sleep you were facing. It was simply not known about the drama of what was decided in the EU while in government. It shows how important it is to have an active European policy — including for Norwegian districts — when you were simply taken to bed and left the government without knowing about the drama of the decisions taken while you were in government. I find it quite remarkable that the Center Party dares to pursue such a misappropriation strategy that puts the whole scheme at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1668	I have to insist that I believe that it is the current government that operates a misappropriation strategy. Instead of discussing the realities of the matter we are now facing – both the system itself and what could be maintained, and also compensatory measures – we choose to concentrate the debate on a claim about what did not happen last year. It is a claim I have asked the European Minister earlier about whether it is possible to document, which he has not responded to. The point is that today we should discuss whether the schemes that are now being introduced are good enough as compensatory schemes. They are far from what this government has promised its voters – at the latest on the radio in our promised municipal minister for crowns for compensation. Today, there are large areas that are too poorly compensated and reacting to it. The North East Valley is probably one of them. The Namdalen, where I come from, is another area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1675	The representative Arnstad, like his party leader, was busy with the refugee situation in Syria. Among other things, Vedum’s violence in his statement that if he had had power, he would have chosen the injured 16-year-old over the healthy 25-year-old. What neither Battle Violence Vedum nor Marit Arnstad spends some time talking about is that both of them have had power in the last few years, and they have systematically and consistently chosen the healthy 25-year-old. It is, as it is well documented in today's debate, the red-green legislation that we are making decisions on the issue of quota refugees, and the question is short and good: With eight years of power, why has the centre party not taken care of it while they had full access to it in the majority government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1682	I see that the Left and Christian People's Party today is trying to use the 2010 guidelines as the fig leaf they're going to hide behind, to avoid voting for a proposal they're in favour of. It's fair enough. But let's say that together we believe that those guidelines were not sufficient. However, it must be possible to vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party here today, for the proposal of the Centre Party deals with the matter itself, which is now up to date, and the matter with which it is urgent. Instead of hiding behind either fig leaves or tactile that we should now consider or have a review of this, the Christian People's Party and the Left – especially when you're out in the media and using as strong words as you did yesterday – could take on the task of voting for this proposal today and contribute to the actual appearance of the real majority in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1689	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1692	I think what we people elected in retrospect are being measured on is our ability to go into our time and answer what's the big question of time. Those who once go back in history to look at the first months of the Right Party government in power are going to be surprised. Think that someone might think that Segway, more tax-free liquor, cheaper boat engines, poker and pro boxing were the big questions of the time in 2014. This has become a government for small picks and smallness. The revised national budget is actually the opportunity for the government to adjust to its budget as new challenges have developed over the year, and to correct mistakes made in its original budget. As a starting point, the sitting government would have four obvious tasks: The government should give priority to climate action, given the recognition that the new United Nations Climate Panel report has made it even clearer that the urgent need to adopt new measures to combat climate change is urgent. The government should give priority to our solidarity with the victims of the war in Syria. The war has become the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time and a refugee disaster that now leads to neighbouring countries having reached a gaping point in what they can deal with for the number of refugees flowing into Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. The government should correct its own blunder with underfunding of kindergartens. Not only did the Solberg government remove the red-green appropriations to give more harvest children space in kindergarten. One was so sure that the families would have cash support that they would also cut deep into the nursery budget. Giving municipalities money to prevent kindergarten queues – or to prevent other welfare protection due to underfunding of kindergartens – should be a matter of course for the majority in this treatment of the revised national budget. The government should reverse its own change to the permitting rules, which now ensure that people lose their jobs in the Norwegian industry. The government and the bourgeois majority in the Grand Duchy are doing nothing of this. Instead, it is a priority that we non-smokers should bring more alcohol home once we have been on a flight, and a lower priority should be given to boat engines – brandy and boat engines in front of kindergartens. That is, I think, a powerful illustration of what is most important to the bourgeois parties. Climate action for this government is still in line with the Government Declaration: it is not one of the eight priority projects. And the crisis in Syria faces this government by accepting fewer quota refugees than the red-green government suggested, and by driving a more active silage so that only the fresh ones get here. It's a strange exercise when the Christian People's Party and the Left today, having used very strong words about this solitude in the media all week, are voting in favour of a firm proposal to review the legislation instead of voting for the proposal of the Central Party to do something here and now to meet the recommendations of the UN High Commissioner. The big difference between today's situation and the situation in the years SV, often together with the Center Party, fought for a brighter refugee policy in the Red-Green Government, is that there is today an alternative majority, which the Christian People's Party and the Left do not choose to use. I think that's special. The representative of Terje Breivik spoke on behalf of the Left warmly about the efforts of the poor and the efforts of refugees. So now they don't choose to use the majority that exists to accept several injured refugees. While there are great words about dignity and efforts for the poor, this budgetary procedure is number two under the bourgeois majority, giving more to the well-fed in this society and doing nothing to combat poverty. On the other hand, the SV is setting up a budget for solidarity, where we give priority to the environment, where we are not least giving a strong priority to stepping up aid to Syria and to receiving more refugees, and where we give priority to kindergartens. Up against the petty, SV sets a budget for greater values than money. We can't just think about what serves ourselves in the short term, we have to think about what kind of country we want to be, what are the big questions in our time. The majority cancel that test.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1725	I'm going to admit that it costs me a little bit to tell you what I'm going to say. Before I entered the Stortinget, I was on leave for six months. It meant a halving of income, it meant uncertainty for the future, there was a loss of opportunities to take on my own assignments that I could earn money on, and I would lose rights to benefits if I quit myself. I thought the lay-off was done on the wrong basis, and that the right tool would then have been to cancel. It would give me the right to three months' wages and clarify my future, so that I could adapt to it. The permitting rules, as they were and, to some extent, transfer the burden to the individual and to the taxpayers instead of to the company itself. Permitting can also be a good and valuable tool for some industries in extraordinary times. But what I don't understand is why SV wants to have permitting rules in a labour market that actually needs labour and mobility, and that normalises leavencies, so that private capitalistic richness can shift the cost of poor planning and conversion to the community and to the individual employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1732	None of us want people to go on leave instead of being in work. But here it is to stick your finger in the ground and see what is actually the alternative for the many in the industry who are now afraid to be put on the gate. These are parts of our business that have a lot of uncertainty about what kind of orders they get, what kind of assignment they get, which is very cyclical, and where I think that's why it's a good basis for maintaining rules that we know prevent dismissals, which we know prevent unemployment. When the majority now see the results of their own policies, which are that more people lose their jobs, it is incomprehensible to me that they are so rigid and refuse to change this code. I believe that although Nordby Lunde's story illustrates that it may have unfortunate effects too, the opposite is true in many important industries, especially in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1739	The alternative is jobs in sustainable industries that have completed that transition. In a relatively normal labour market, where the need for labour elsewhere is high, and you need that mobility in the market, I don't understand why you want a system that's for extraordinary times, so that the system can be abused by companies that can't or won't change, and that then shift this responsibility to the individual employee. In fact, I don't think you understand the situation where you put the workers. There is no greater security when your own income is halved, when you don't know when you can get back to work, and when you don't have that many choices for the future. I still do not understand why SV wants to prioritise such a scheme instead of letting employees go and find a new job for a safer future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1749	I can only relate to what I have heard when I have visited industrial workplaces this spring. I've visited some of them -- not least in my own county, Hordaland, where there are many of the types of businesses we're talking about here. There is one clear demand from those who work there, which I have met – at least before the government made its proposals on the Working Environment Act, so now there would probably have been two – and there was something to do with the rules of leave, because it creates uncertainty in those communities along the coast. Then I would like to add that when it comes to the need for conversion for the Norwegian industry, I agree with that. We need a transition to the industries of the future, to a less oil dependent industry. You don't do that by pushing out redundancies for workers. This is done by promoting a completely different oil and energy policy than the Right and Advance Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1758	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1761	As case rapporteur for the case, let me thank the Committee for good cooperation on the change in the differentiated employer's fee and compensatory measures. I think we all had the same feeling of frustration when Stortinget got this big and very important case with a treatment deadline of a few days. But if we're frustrated, I think it's just the first letter in relation to what the businesses that are affected are. I understand them very well. So now, in fourteen days, they're going to implement this new legislation. That is why, in the Labour Party, we are very pleased that we have achieved the majority of significant improvements in relation to the government's proposals. The most important decision we are making today is to ask the government to revisit Brussels with the aim of including the transport sector as soon as possible in the system of differentiated employer charges. I would also like to thank everyone who has set up to assist with the facts and consequences of the changes proposed. For my part, I have to admit that the contributions from the NHO in particular have enabled us to ensure the quality of the decision-making basis as far as possible in this short period of time. That, plus that by today's decision we ensure that the Storting gets the matter back, makes it possible for us today to actually deal with this matter – because not only have we had very little time for the treatment, but the proposition does not provide additional descriptions of the consequences for the people concerned. When any of the things that are said, in addition, are directly wrong, the government does not make it easy for the Storting. Among other things, it is written that ‘most transport undertakings will be fully compensated through the free payment system’. According to the NHO, which I assume has a lot of knowledge of the industry they have in their membership, this is not the case. Furthermore, the consultation showed that estimates of the need for compensation to the counties for the purchase of passenger transport services are broken. That is why I am pleased that the government now needs quality-proof figures and not least the effects of the different measures to return to Stortinget. The Labour Party and I are also satisfied that the government must treat the purchase of passenger transport services in a non-discriminatory manner, regardless of whether they are county or state. We assume that both Onøe and Hurtigruten will be compensated in 2014 as well, and not just that they are considered to compensate, as the government wrote. Several municipalities are now facing major challenges. It is obvious that they must be compensated for the increased costs of passenger transport. I am also pleased that the government now has to assess the compensation for the increased costs of the counties for the investment, operation and maintenance of the county roads. Only for Finnmark is this estimated at 16 million. kr per year. We in the Workers' Party are also very pleased that the government now has to assess both exceptional security of power supply and empowerment measures in the companies. Again, the main measures taken by the enterprises concerned are in the transport, energy and banking sectors. Once those things are done, you can start discussing infrastructure measures. I record that representatives of the government parties have been in Finnmark and promised to extend the airport and other things. That's probably nice, but for the companies that get a total bill of 1.2 billion. kr, such measures do little to help. Therefore, the government must first find out how much money is needed for targeted, direct compensation schemes for businesses and the counties. After that one can begin to look at the infrastructure measures that can be implemented in order to contribute to the positive effects on business. The government has told them to overcomply with the national transport plan. That is good, but I assume they should not do that with money collected from business through an increased employer's fee. Then I will describe the overfill as a joke! Then I have to say that as a reserve change, I am also satisfied that the Namdalen now needs to be assessed into this form of compensation measures. Although what we are adopting today is better than what the government has proposed, we are not in the target. I look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with better figures and not least with the effects and consequences of the different measures. Finally, I wish the government a good trip to Brussels. The traveler is cordially welcome back here quickly, with hopefully a better result for Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1789	I am pleased that there is a broad majority behind changes in the system of differentiated employer fees and the compensatory measures proposed by the government, and I am pleased that the committee has provided for rapid treatment, because a decision is now essential for us to have a system of differentiated employer charges at all from 1 July. Here, as a nation, we've been on the afterlife; we've been out too late. It is important that we ensure that we compensate for this at the pace that has been set – from both the government and the Stortinget – in this case, because this is important for the predictability of Norwegian business. There are dramatic changes in State aid legislation, which is why we have worked hard to limit the adverse effects and limit the scope of the rules and to work with good compensatory measures. The government will also follow up the decision of the Storting to follow closely the legal developments in the EU and to respond to the request of the representative Berg-Hansen to take up a flight to Brussels: I did that yesterday. Yesterday I had a meeting with the president of ESA to discuss the road further in relation to a differentiated employer's fee. The President of ESA stressed that State aid legislation – which is part of a differentiated employer’s fee – applies throughout the EEA territory and is not just a Norwegian matter. She also underlined the importance of common rules and the need for uniform practice of these rules throughout the EEA territory. The ESA President also referred to the thorough process in the last months between the Norwegian Government, the Commission and ESA. She underlined that the rules have now been adopted and will apply for seven years and therefore did not consider that there are further possibilities for legislative changes. What should we do from here? Firstly, we need to monitor how the legislation is now being implemented and implemented in practice in the EU area. If it turns out that the application and practice of it is done in a way in other countries that provides the basis for us to ask for improvements, then of course we should do so. But then it is important that we, as a nation, learn from what has failed in this process, and that, first of all, means that we need to relate to how EU legislative processes are conducted. The important thing for Norway to have influence and influence is that we intervene with EU processes before the Commission puts its proposals on the table. The Commission put its proposal on the table in January 2013, so it was in 2012 that we should start this work. Then we should work hard in the phase between the Commission's proposals being on the table and the Council's decision, and that happened between January and June in 2013. Then you have to work hard in the process of interpreting and defining the legislation, and that is what has happened in the last few months. Secondly, it is important in these contexts that we understand that it is the Commission and the Council that adopt the rules while ESA interprets the rules. It is therefore not just a matter of contact with ESA. What the Commission decides is the essential basis for ESA's interpretation, and it's important that we talk to those who make the rules. We have done so, but before we entered into political dialogue with the Commission, it had not been a political dialogue between Norway and the Commission in this matter, as we have had experience. Thirdly, we must follow the content of policy developments at the political level. A very interesting information that the ESA President came with yesterday was that Norway had – under the red-green government – submitted comments on the legislation last August. These comments referred to the sector exemptions, so you were aware of them, but they were not taken up as a particular problem. They were concerned about the map – and that is important enough – but they showed that they were aware of the legislation, but did not address this issue with the sector exceptions as a problem. It clearly shows that this is where it was slept in the hour. It's important that we now learn from this. Now that we know that the legislation will be in force for seven years, we must not wait seven years until the next time we get involved; then we have to engage in dialogue with the Commission in the reform process in four to five years' time. It is a very important lesson if we are to intervene and have the opportunity to influence an issue that is crucial to the predictability of business, not least in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1811	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1814	So today we are dealing with one of the biggest and most serious issues for large parts of Norwegian business in a long time. We are dealing with a matter that is serious for large parts of the country. Yeah, we're actually sending a bill of 1.2 billion. kr out in District Norway. Then I have to say it’s with wonder – or almost ‘with shock’, which I suppose a government council here would say, which has been sitting on the other side of the table – that the European Minister is still the most concerned to look back, to find someone to blame, and even worse, that he is talking down Norway’s negotiating position. It is so far a known tactic when one does not want to answer for himself. There have been repeated attempts to get someone from the government to tell what happened between October last year and March this year, when the government threw the cards. Can the Council of State now take this opportunity to tell Stortinget what actually happened – or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1819	Between October last and March this year, we worked on the notification to ESA, and we suggested that that notification should be a preliminary notification, so that we had the opportunity to come back with further notifications as the work in the EU – with the legislative design – was further defined, because the State aid body is a whole. What we got an opportunity to do after March was look at the interaction between regional aid rules and the so-called block exemptions. There were interpretations in the block exemption rules that allowed us to have new opportunities in the sector exemptions. There we worked very hard, and that's why we've managed to get a narrower definition of the sector exceptions. So there's a process that we have reason to be relatively satisfied with. We have worked hard, but it should have worked harder here for a much longer period and much earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1824	If it was that it was clear to the new government when they joined and discovered this, why didn't you notify the outside world every day? Why didn't the transport industry be notified that this is a tax shock in front of you? Then they would have much better time to prepare for what came. As late as February, the finance minister had opportunities, but she didn't say anything about it. So I have to say that I am very happy that the government's representatives here at Stortinget, at least, have been more constructive and are now involved in giving the government some new jobs. Then I have to say that the headlines that are on NTB today, where the Minister of Europe says that now it's only about 'interpretation', are a little eye-catching. So my question to the Council of State is, in fact, whether he is the right person to go to Brussels and negotiate these important questions on behalf of Norway. It's actually going to be like Johaug and Bjørgen start up in a OL and say we're going to lose, but we're starting low!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1833	As I just said in my post, this is about interpretation, but it is also about following closely how the legislation is applied, and if we see that it is applied in ways that give us new opportunities, then we should seize those possibilities. But I have to be allowed to point out that the government council that first met at political level with the Commission in this process was me, and that is because it is important to talk to those who have political responsibility. Talking to ESA is important enough – but it's just talking to the interpreters. We have been in dialogue with those who draw up the proposals, with those who are involved in policy-making, and it did not – after what we have experienced – our predecessors.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1840	I think it's almost incredible to sit and listen to the councillor Helgesen. It seems that he is much more concerned with the political game than with those who are affected by the scheme. As I said earlier in today's debate, according to the Ministry of Finance's figures, there are 200 transport companies that on average will receive a tax bill of 2.5 million. kr extra annually, due to the change. But we don't hear a word about it from Helgesen. But what we hear about is that the last government is responsible for everything. It's a disclaimer that's almost unbelievable, and I'll repeat the question that Lisbeth Berg-Hansen brought: What kind of negotiating power do you get when you send a letter in March saying: OK, everything is fine, and then you go a new round, with the background of the criticism, once you have accepted all the conditions yourself? Has the government then set up a good negotiating strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1850	First, when we notified in March, there was a clear reservation that we could come back here, and we did. Once we've been in dialogue with the Commission and the lawmakers, it's not a part of a political game. It's just to find solutions. We have done so for mining, oil and gas activities and parts of the transport sector. We have also managed – in dialogue with the Commission – to narrow the scope of the sector exemptions. We're partly satisfied with that. We're not quite satisfied, because there's dramatic changes in dramatic outcomes, but that's exactly why we've also put great emphasis on getting compensatory measures, and we're happy that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy ends up doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1857	If we remember the debate in March, the government – especially Jan Tore Sanners – was mantra that it was not possible to go new rounds, because everything had been laid before the new government got power. It was decided before June last spring. It is very strange, seen afterwards, because it was then claimed that it was completely impossible to go new rounds, but after getting a lot of criticism, from both the opposition here on the house and a whole business life, it was possible to go a new round anyway, and they made some tiny adjustments. But, of course, the Norwegian government had much less power than it had had if it had driven the line all the way out and had a total collapse in its back. It's like they're saying, "I'm sorry we care about you one more time, but we've been told so much that we do. It's a little bit surprising what's going to happen again and again, that the previous government wasn't active on this question. We got e.g. delayed implementation of the legislation from January to 1 July, because we thought that we had to have a transitional period, because we saw that this was demanding. Why did this government not take the initiative to postpone implementation from 1 July to 1 January when you see how unprofessional and quick it has been and how businesses are hit very quickly: in one week?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1864	It was activity under the previous government. Among other things, the ESA President informed yesterday that the previous government made it clear that they knew about the sector exemptions, but it was not problematic in written comments to ESA. You were occupied with the map, important enough. We note – that also made clear yesterday by the ESA President, following up the Stortinget's wish for close dialogue with ESA, also in the continuation – that the entire EU State aid legislation will come into force. Further deferrals are not on the agenda. We're part of the EEA. That means that we're part of an area where there's going to be equal rules of play. It is important for Norwegian business. But it is unfortunate that over several years we have not been in good enough interference with this legislative design. We've rocked the stumps, and we've implemented good, compensatory measures, but we have to learn lessons for the future when it comes to getting involved in policy-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1871	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum gets a third line if the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen allows it. He does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1874	Thank you for your goodwill, President. My question is: Has the government ever taken the initiative to postpone implementation from 1 July?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1881	We have not, because we have raised this question and received a clear message that the whole state aid code should be put in place. Regional aid and differentiated employer charges are one part of a larger State aid code, and in the discussions we have had, it has been clear that this should be done. There is also part of the problem here, namely that the European Commission has had a bad time here. Much of this has been met with criticism from EU Member States that there has been bad craftsmanship. But it also tells us that if we had been out in the past, in 2012 or last year, the possibilities of interacting with other countries about better solutions would also be greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1886	For my part, I would like to hear several lines from the representative Battle Violence Vedum, but I have a simple question to the Council of State: Let's say that the Council of State had received an unfair tax return of $50,000. Then the Council of State gradually manages to prove that this is not true, and that he has paid $50,000 too much in taxes and sends this information to the tax bill. If the Council had then received a reply letter back where it said: Yes, you are quite right. We've taken $50,000 too much, and we're going to compensate it by spending $50,000 on closing some holes in the way two quarters away. Would the council then feel that he was a real and fully compensated crown for crowns?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1895	I have to say that the parallel is a little limping in terms of regulatory design, but I'm still going to answer the reality of the question: We've compensated for the amount of money this is about. It is obvious that it is difficult to go down at company level and now full heads for crown compensation. But we have compensated so that the increased income we receive through the fees goes back to business. Not only that: we place great emphasis on the fact that it is not the state, the county councils or the municipalities that will determine where to close the holes in the road. The business community, which is the one who pays, must have not only a word in the team, but also a hand on the steering wheel on how to prioritise these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1902	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1905	In its proposal for the revised National Budget for 2014, the Right-Fremskritsparte-government continues the political course set for the autumn, both in the Government Declaration and in the changes in the State budget for 2014. A new policy is now being pursued, in line with voters' wishes, and steps are being taken to turn the Norwegian economy and society in a new and better direction. Reduced tax burden for both businesses and individuals, less bureaucracy and a simpler everyday life for most people is an important political goal for the Progress Party, and it is very good that the government shows action, follows up with concrete measures and facilitates good economic development in Norway. The inheritance tax has already been removed in its entirety, the income and wealth tax has been reduced, and now the temporary boat engine tax introduced in 1978, as mentioned earlier in the debate, is being removed. The tax-free system makes it more flexible. The levy on boat engines is bureaucratic and costly, and the proceeds are very limited, and so the measure is as much a tax relief as a simplification measure. Flexible quotas in the tax-free system for alcohol and tobacco are not subsidies for alcohol use, as claimed by some in the debate, but a contribution to increasing freedom of choice for most people — at least for those travelling, and they are quite many. I record that the Workers' Party and SV have a great need to enter the history books – through their minority comments – by hailing the results achieved under eight years of red-green rule. And it is very good in Norway and in the Norwegian economy, while there were many challenges in both the public and private sectors at the beginning of 2014. To name a few: historically low level of investment in mainland Norway: the lowest since 1970 hourly wage costs almost 70 p.p. Over the average of our EU trading partners, only one in six start-ups survive the first three years, indicating that the framework and regulatory framework has not been particularly entrepreneurial around 600 000 people are totally or partially outside the ordinary working life, contributing to the greatest income gap in society in maintenance and maintenance on the national roads of between 25 billion. kr and 40 br. kr, and in the case of county roads between 45 billion. kr and 75 brd. lack of overall road development contributes to almost quadrupling the construction time and to the fact that too many important projects are not implemented in time This is some of the red-green legacy. It is also interesting that the Workers' Party is already proposing to increase the wealth tax, because then we have to ask if they also want to increase the income tax and reintroduce the inheritance tax. There is important information for the voters on which the Workers' Party must also be open and honest. The framework conditions of industry are largely influenced by, inter alia, political factors. the tax agenda and infrastructure organisation, and therefore the tax debate should not focus unilaterally on distribution, but much more on value creation and conditions of competition. This is, in fact, an important dividing line in Norwegian policy. Knowledge and competence are an important input for value creation, economic development and prosperity. Therefore, there is reason to stress that the additional appropriations in the revised budget amounting to 50 million. for the further training of teachers, in fact, more than 3 500 teachers can now take part in further training. Then we'll be able to use the capacity of the education system almost 100 p.p., and it'll be further contributed, through the budget agreement, by 50 million. kr to increase capacity. There is reason to commend the government for its targeted efforts in the negotiations with the EU and ESA to maintain the system of differentiated employer charges until 2020, and for having been accepted for the narrower sector exemptions for the energy and transport sectors than was the starting point of the previous government. On top of that, I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Good Cooperation and Contributions, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, for a broad consensus on the government's measures to compensate for the changes in the system. In summary, we might say that the active role of the Right-wing Party government towards the EU has already given better negotiating results, compared to a passive, sitting-at-home attitude, where only letters are sent to ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1956	Differentiated employer’s fee has been an important, unbureaucratic and accurate district policy instrument. Therefore, it is important that the matter is addressed now, so that we ensure that – initially – the continuation of the scheme, even if there are changes. I also want to thank the case rapporteur, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, for a good cooperation on this matter. The European Commission adopted new guidelines on regional State aid on 19 June 2013 and the ESA adopted its guidelines on 23 October 2013. In the context of this review, Norway committed to liquidate the existing differentiated employer fee scheme by the end of June 2014, while the Norwegian authorities have re-notified the scheme for the period from 1 July 2014 to 31 December 2020 with these revised guidelines. This notification was otherwise accepted by ESA last Wednesday. These changes are partly positive by the inclusion of 31 new municipalities in the scheme, and this extension implies that employers receive an annual fee reduction of approximately 500 million. kr. This is an important contribution to municipalities that have challenges in terms of population development and employment. Furthermore, it is positive that shipbuilding, which is a sector previously excluded from the scheme, is now included in the scheme for the municipalities or parts of the country concerned. The disadvantage of the new guidelines is that the Norwegian authorities have had to exempt some new sectors from the differentiated employer tax scheme. This concerns the energy sector, the transport sector, aerodromes, the steel sector, the synthetic fibres sector, the financial and insurance sectors, as well as the head office functions and certain advisory services in the group. These disadvantages are particularly evident in enterprises in our northern part of the country, but also North-Trøndelag, Oppland, Hedmark and other geographical areas have been affected. The government has worked hard to get the most narrow definition of sectoral concepts, and it is therefore a well-deserved reward that the majority of governments give to the government in the form of comments on this work. The government has been committed to providing compensatory measures to those affected by the loss of a differentiated employer’s fee. Therefore, a maximum degree of proven neutrality is envisaged, but in order to ensure the most effective interventions it is not necessarily at sector level, enterprise level or municipality level. This compensation will be granted in the form of a so-called free payment scheme or de minimis aid to individual enterprises that are eligible. Furthermore, infrastructure measures in North Norway and increased State procurement of transport services, county purchase of transport services and compensation through the net pay scheme are envisaged. The right is satisfied that, through the committee procedure and this majority position, we are also asking for an assessment of whether security of supply in the electricity sector should be covered by the concept of infrastructure measures and an assessment of whether or not measures of competence should be offered to those sectors that will benefit from the exemption from the use of a reduced employer’s fee. Furthermore, an assessment has also been requested of whether neighbouring geographical areas, such as the namdal municipalities, should also be part of the geographical area of infrastructure measures. Right-wing wants to strengthen business and employment in the districts by continuing the best possible system of differentiated employer charges, free-of-charge schemes and other measures. I am pleased that both the government and the majority in the United Kingdom are committed to follow developments closely in the future, both in terms of the effect of the conversion of a differentiated employer's tax and the success of the compensatory measures. Furthermore, it is good that the government will follow the scenario in the future and see if there may be opportunities for further narrowing of the sectoral concepts of those excluded from the scheme, including: the transport sector. It is with a relatively large degree of wonder that I read the comments of the Centre Party and try to describe the reality of this matter and the process that has been ahead of today's treatment in Stortinget. There is no indication that the change to the guidelines relating to a differentiated employer’s fee was initiated on 19 June 2013, while the central party was in government and their own party leader was the municipal minister. Our government finds virtually no trace of activities related to this issue from the previous government and the Central Party Minister of State and Head of State at that time. The representative of Navarsete did not conceal in the EEA debate here in Stortinget on 27 May 2014 that she had been aware of the sector exemptions, but that she had nevertheless not found a basis for informing the Storting about this, despite the dramatic consequences of the European Commission’s guidelines in June 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e1976	In connection with the fact that the Stortinget approved changes to the Kyoto Protocol on 12 December last year, we asked the government to come back to the Stortinget with a case on setting up Norway's international climate action during the spring 2014 session. Chapter 5 of the revised national budget provides the feedback requested by the Stortinget. I would like to associate a few words with this. We're going into a very important year internationally towards what hopefully becomes a new climate agreement. First, it has to be a climate summit in New York on 28 September, initiated by the UN Secretary-General. Negotiations shall then be conducted towards the Lima Summit and then in Paris until the next year. With the climate challenges and climate change we are already seeing, it is vital that we be able to have a binding agreement on international law in Paris, which is also binding on all countries, not just some countries from the previous phase of the Kyoto Protocol. In the revised budget, the government is going through some of what will be Norway's role towards the Paris negotiations. One of the most important things Norway does is to contribute in the field of climate and forest management — where we are leading. These are impressive results that have been achieved in Brazil, Indonesia and Guyana. Hopefully, we will also be able to achieve results in future cooperation with Colombia, which has been initiated. It is a complex area, where not only is it necessary to finance what has been achieved in the past, but there is a need to cooperate with countries and also operate in the field of domestic policy and local policy in order to achieve results. It is a little under-communicated from Warzawa that we also made progress in this field. What's important is that when we're going to take care of the rainforest, we have to do this in a way that promotes development and biodiversity. When you get an international agreement, you also have to look at how we're going to transfer this to Norwegian conditions, where it's not just about storing CO2 but also about preserving biodiversity. The government places great emphasis on the need for a price of CO2 and wants an international allowance market. I think it's unlikely that we'll get it. There is nothing to suggest that the large countries will want to have a binding quota market. I think that in our policy we should not assume that this is coming. It is therefore the commitments of the countries in total that must be strong enough to reach the two-degree target. It also says a lot about how to deal with international fossil fuel subsidies. It's an important problem. There are many subsidies in many countries. But I think we also need to look at what subsidies we have. In the case of Norwegian oil and gas activities, there are also subsidies in the case of oil exploration, whether it is the light-refusion scheme, the amount of the exemption or the rules on depreciation. The OECD has assessed these, as we may call subsidies, in a range of up to 21-25 billion. kr. It is clear that when we require the international elimination of subsidies, we must be prepared that we must also implement changes in Norway. That will be an important contribution. Prior to the climate summit, countries shall assess how to reduce their own emissions faster by 2020. It is also in the cooperation agreement that the Left and Christian People's Party has with the government that we should strengthen the climate agreement. In this year's budget, this is done by increasing the mineral oil tax and the electricity tax. There are also other measures. About the review that the government does of what is government policy, I just want to say a few words. One is, there's no doubt that it's absolutely vital that we get a green tax regime and reinforce what we started this year. It's important that we have a green tax commission set up. It is also important that we do not wait for it to be ready until action is taken. We probably know how good economic incentives work. The measures must then also start from the first budget. One must not wait for the final, grand evaluation. It'll be important for the Left. Finally, carbon capture and storage are important. That's the phase-out of oil boilers. The problem with a base load I did not know existed. Do as in Oslo: Just remove everything, and don't make it more complicated than it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2003	First, I have to take the opportunity to clarify a manifest misunderstanding. The impression has been that the Workers' Party has not been clean in terms of proceeds in connection with the cash support, which we do not want to increase. Some claim that we require refunded money that has already been paid. The case is that there is an increase in the cash support planned from 1 August. When we suggest that it is not implemented, it is clear that the correct amount to include in the revision is the annual impact. It would otherwise have taken place if the Workers' Party began to grumble with proceeds. If there's something we're concerned about, it is. Otherwise, the text in the vote is the text we received from the Ministry of Finance to clarify that question. Then I hope that's settled. We have listened to the Ministry of Finance and Government, but the last year has shown that we have a government that listens to little. We saw that in connection with the question of doctors' reservation rights, on which there was a broad popular commitment. This contributed, inter alia, to: to a major resolution on 8 March. This eventually resulted in the government taking action. Now I'm worried that the government doesn't listen to any of its businessmen when it comes to permitting rules. One example is Kværner Verdal, where both staff managers Harald Myrland and Ståle Johansen are out and say clearly that we have to turn it around, as it affects the serious business world. Steel Johansen points out that the Council of State, which often refers to Verdal, in 2009 considered that the number of days to be paid by companies should be reduced to three days. But when he becomes the Council of State, he increases this from 10 to 20 days and weakens the ability of industry to hold skilled labour. It has been said by director Knut E. Sunde of the Norwegian industry: ‘We believe that the government must recognise this and amend the rules relating to the revised budget in ours.’ But neither Knut E. Sunde nor anyone else has been heard. I very much disagree with the Minister of Finance, who stands here and says that we have to wait to press the alarm button. They've pressed the alarm button. They have informed the government that when the government announces an increase in unemployment, we need to put in place measures to avoid increased unemployment. We cannot, then, have the principle that unemployment should not be prevented until unemployment has occurred? At least that's a different principle than what we have. The result is less permissive, yes – because now people are being laid off instead. It doesn't strengthen serious business. In the same way, it is in the case of the Working Environment Act. The government has said that it will set up a working time committee, as we think it is excellent that the government should do, but they have not finished doing it yet. Nevertheless, they propose to change their working time before the sample to assess the issue has been reduced. They propose more Sunday work and more overtime imposed on ordinary workers. Perhaps the most serious thing is increased access to temporary employment, or simply general access to temporary employment – with what we know about what it means by uncertainty. In this room, people in generations after generation have had ambition: when my kids and grandchildren go out to work, they will have safer conditions than we had when my generation started. Now we're experiencing a government that's going to remove the security of permanent employment. We know from the countries that have tried it, that it doesn't work when it comes to giving more jobs, but it makes it much easier to get people out of work. The finance minister likes to have her eyes on her as much as she likes, but I recommend that you actually get involved in the reports that exist internationally, from those countries that have tried to remove the security of employment from people. It doesn't give you any more employment. The same applies to the question of temporary workers, although there are many who are not going to be affected by the proposal to allow derogations from the agency directive. But it is a typical example that while the previous government was worried that the temporary workers were often too poorly paid, and taking action against it, the current government is concerned that the temporary workers are serving too much. That is a good expression of the political difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2019	The revised national budget provides interesting guidance for economic policy in the future. A very important point here is the objective of public sector reforms. This means that the government will facilitate the most efficient use of Community resources. There must be respect for taxpayers' money. A good example here is that successful municipal reform will make a good contribution to a more efficient public sector. But unnecessary administrative costs and bureaucracy are also a burden on business and thus on society. It is estimated that some 4,800 annual works in industry are contributing to the provision of legal information to public authorities. The government's objective is to reduce the costs by 25 pst. The size was addressed a few weeks ago by new future adaptations to the A-Information Act. The main point was that various similar reports that have so far been delivered to several public authorities can now be delivered in one place. Savings are estimated at 500-600 million. kr. The government has implemented 17 simplification measures – 3 large and 14 small measures. These include the introduction of electronic tax cards and the introduction of a new unit profile in Altinn. Furthermore, 27 simplification measures are being implemented and a number of new measures are actively being decided on in 2014. All these measures have been taken in the right direction. Norway has a very good tax administration. We have relatively few and transparent tax types. Extensive use of electronic submission and good registration data helps to improve this part of public activity. A recent visit by the Finance Committee to the Tax Directorate confirmed that we have a highly competent and effective tax rate. The goal is not to skin people, to say it like that. I believe that we have an effective, fair and reliable tax rate that helps bring society forward, and that does a very necessary job. The tax system itself will always be subject to considerable political attention. In line with the objective of the efficient use of societal resources, the system itself should be set up in such a way as to make working, saving and investing more profitable. The oil money shall be used, inter alia: to tax relief that is conducive to growth. As a result, changes in taxes and duties should provide better conditions for business, so as to promote value creation, which in turn stimulates employment. The tax changes adopted in the harvest were a step in that direction. Allow me to point out that, through negotiations with the government’s cooperation parties, the revised national budget has been strengthened in some areas. Locally in Hordaland, most political parties have long been engaged in establishing a so-called pilot plant for the industrial use of CO2 for the production of algae for fish feed. The facility shall be established in conjunction with the Technology Centre of Mongstad. The algae pilot will exploit captured CO2 and contribute to the production of healthy food as well as sustainable growth and development in the farming industry. The plant will exploit clean CO2 captured at Mongstad, for something useful instead of letting it out again. The project is based, among other things, on: The University of Bergen, Hordaland County and several private actors. These have committed 6 million. kr on condition that the country contributes the corresponding amount. This is what is now being put in place through the examination of the case by the Financial Committee and the decision of the Grand Duchy, and there is reason to rejoice over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2043	First of all, I must say that I am very pleased with the agreement that we made between the Right and the Advance Party and our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Revised national budget for 2014 from the government had symbolic items such as flexible tax-free allowances and complete removal of unpopular charges as the one we find on boat engines. By the way, we've gotten more popular stuff that doesn't necessarily cost a lot of money, but that has a lot of symbol value. The organisation Special Olympics is doing an excellent job for mentally retarded people. While the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government led a policy where Special Olympics were kept out of the government support scheme – the Labour Party stood firm on this resistance to Special Olympics as late as October 2013, only days before the party had to leave the government offices – the Advance Party has fought for Special Olympics for years. I have to say that I am very pleased that today we are making sure that mentally retarded people will also have the opportunity to try out the sports arena in the future. The amount of 2 million. NOK is low compared to what you get back for the money. The fact that the Workers' Party now supports the proposal and therefore opposes what they stood for under the Red-Green Government is only positive and not least very pleasing. My home country of Vestfold has a maritime tradition that extends far back, covering both the Viking history, the sailing hours and not least the whaling time. I want to go so far as to say that protective vessels are an important part of the Norwegian cultural heritage. These cultural memories are usually privately owned, and voluntary forces are making enormous efforts, whether they are associations, teams or communities that keep the ships in check. The progress party received several pass-throughs for increased appropriations for ship protection in the comparison we had with the Bondevik government. I am proud that, in the agreement with the revised national budget for 2014, we have put in place 5 million. extra kr for the protection of vessels. There is also not much money, but nevertheless an important contribution in protecting the Norwegian cultural heritage. Oslo Freedom Forum is an important arena for civil and political rights – freedom of expression, democracy and the fight against torture and tyranny. Here, freedom fighters, activists, artists, artists, bloggers, journalists, business leaders and politicians meet for a common struggle against the world's dictatorships and authoritarian regimes. This is simply a follow-up to the 1948 Universal Human Rights Declaration. The Oslo Freedom Forum needs money to carry out the planned event of the harvest. This is due, inter alia, to: that Oslo Freedom Forum had to be moved because LO and the Joint Alliance threatened with a hotel strike in connection with the event. I am therefore pleased that we have put 1 million in place. kr extra to this incredibly important event. Political breakthroughs are not always about the billions and major reforms. Special Olympics, ship protection and the Oslo Freedom Forum are good examples of this. Sometimes you can get a lot less money, and in the agreement on the revised budget, I think we have found many different and not least very good things. Finally, I have to make a brief visit to SV's representative Serigstad Valen, who earlier today, during the change of lines, was asked about the differentiated employer's fee. The question was what measures the previous government had put in place to get a good process. I could not perceive any answers, and I can only see through it that nothing was actually done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2058	Today we're done with a big year with a new composition of Stortinget. I have recorded that the Right parliamentary leader has said that it has now become much more interesting to be on the Stortinget, but at the same time I record that he – together with the parliamentary leaders of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – obviously does not think it is interesting enough to be in this debate today. I think that is a very bad thing, because there is an important debate we have in this Chamber today, about what sort of priorities we are going to do when we are half way through 2014 – whether the major challenges in Norwegian society are solved by larger tariff-free quotas and tax cuts on suspension engines, or whether we should bet on better permitting legislation, kindergartens and efforts for the Syrian refugees. These are important things. I fully agree with Svein Flätten, Right-wing fiscal spokesman, who said earlier in the debate that the starting point is good, but there must be no sleeping cushion. This is precisely why the Workers' Party prioritises measures for employment, knowledge and well-being. In addition, as one of the world's richest and best placed countries, we must take responsibility for the Syrian refugees. In the last harvest of the centenary debate, the Prime Minister first invited her to cooperate and said she should have a listening attitude to all the other parties on the Stortinget, but she also said: "Then we expect you to do what you say, that is to say, to vote for what you're in favour of." The big question today is whether the Christian People's Party and the Left will do just that – follow the call of the Prime Minister. I share the concern and indignation of the Christian People's Party and the Left over the last few days that Norway does not accept any more wounded refugees from Syria. They've had a lot of commitment to that in the media. I think that's very good. At the same time, I record that the Christian People's Party and the Left have been involved in reducing the ambitions for how many refugees we should receive this year. It was 500 fewer than the red-green government had added. I also record that the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed to place more emphasis on integration in accepting quota refugees from Syria and other countries. After all, the Christian People's Party and the Left will today vote against our Syria billion. They will most likely also vote against our proposal to increase the integration grant by NOK 100000. I fully agree with all those who say that we must take seriously the capacity challenges of the municipalities – we cannot impose on them greater burdens than they can handle. But then our answer should be that we have to equip the municipalities to receive both the 5,000 who are at reception today, and our share of the people in Syria who are experiencing war and misery. I have noticed that the leader of the Left is pushing ahead as the major problem in this matter of the 2010 guidance, which sets out how to give priority to quota refugees. To that it is to say that there is nothing in the guidelines that prevents us from accepting the most vulnerable refugees. On the contrary, it was precisely in those guidelines that priority should be given to the most vulnerable. But okay -- if that's the problem, let's do something with them. These guidelines can actually be changed on the day, and we can send that signal from the main hall here and now, today. I note with regret that the majority in the storeroom will continue to examine these guidelines. The investigation will not help a single refugee – with or without damage to war. That is why the Workers' Party will support the proposal of the Centre Party, which is quite specific about us asking the Government today to increase the ‘proportion of transfer refugees from Syria with special medical needs’. In the revised national budget, we have the opportunity to show solidarity with people in the south. In the revised national budget, we also have the opportunity to support offensive actions in the north. I am pleased that the bulk of the population joins the scheme for a regionally differentiated employer's fee, for which the case-rapporteur, Berg-Hansen, has been at the forefront. I expect the government to follow up Brussels and ESA in terms of depreciation rules, so that the oil from the Castberg field is landed. I also assume that the government supports industrial development projects such as those in northern and northern Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2080	In the course of the new year, 40 employees at the Scana Steel steel mill in Jørpeland were informed that they had lost their job. At Rosenberg Verft, an even greater number of the same message was given shortly afterwards. Only weeks after that, the same type of message came to the employees of Westcon in Ølen and the Storesund Marine in Karmøy. When the employees at the steelworks and at Rosenberg Verft lost their job, the Labour Party asked the Minister of Labour what he would do to secure Norwegian jobs. He replied that he would wait and see. When the employees in Westcon and Storesund Marine lost their jobs, the Labour Party asked the Minister of Industry what she would do to secure Norwegian jobs. She replied that she would wait and see. I thought we might be waiting for the Minister of Finance – she's the one who's sitting on the money. But when the revised national budget was presented, she was also in the same club. She replied that she wanted to wait and see all questions about the law of the permit. The representative Svein Flätten believed earlier today that the government's policy creates more jobs. When I talk to employees and the management of the steelworks, at Rosenberg yard, in Westcon and in Storesund Marine, they disagree. All points to the fact that changes in the law on permitting make enterprises look forced to lay off employees rather than to permit when times are getting tougher. That may be the statistics Fleet has seen, tells a different story, but it does little for the families of those who lose their jobs. It's real people who lose real jobs. It scares me that the government doesn't have the power to see that reality. I would therefore challenge the government parties on how long we should wait before a take hold. This legislation creates greater uncertainty for workers and their families and weakens the development of businesses and communities around the country. As the situation is now, we have a loss-loss situation. The employees who lose their jobs are losing. The companies that lose their skills are losing. For business-sensitive enterprises, it is important to be able to maintain the competence of employees, even if jobs and orders should be absent for a shorter period of time. Rarely have the NHO and the LO been more coherent than they are in the criticism of the government at this point. At the hearing for the budget, we heard again and again. The construction industry was also assembled and alarmed. In maritime nourishment it was the Shipowners' Federation that raised the red flag. So why is it so quiet from the government - it might be very expensive to fix the change you've made? No, it's not. It would have cost no more than half of the estimated income loss on the increased tax-free allowance to do something about this. That is why I fear – as the representative Serigstad Valen said earlier – that this is driven by pure ideology on the part of the bourgeois parties. I hope the government's waiting time is soon over, and that one can take concrete action in this case, so that one can turn a loss-loss situation into a win-win situation. In any case, I promise that the Workers' Party will keep the pressure up until the law on leavencies has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2097	The revised national budget is an opportunity to have a mid-term evaluation of how the budget we adopted last harvest has been cut off, and to make adjustments where necessary. When the budget was adopted last autumn, I said in my speech in Stortinget that we adopted a budget which, with some exceptions, was a good budget for the education sector. The outgoing red-green government and the so-called Right-Fremskritsparte government came together about very many of the bets that were in the state budget – correct with some changes. So the questions are, halfway out in 2014: how has this turned out? What does reality look like? Is it necessary for us to adjust to some points? The state budget amended the proposal of the red-greens. Two babysittings a year were cut. Fruit and vegetables were removed. The cultural school hour was removed, and the proposal for the eleventh month of study was reversed. Instead, some of the money was used to increase the investment in continuing training for teachers, in the form of increased state subsidies, and to what was called a professional profession by the government itself. First of all, we see that the search for continuing training for teachers is increasing sharply. That's very good. This suggests that the attention to this has led the teachers to see that there are opportunities here. While we have basically had enough money to meet demand in previous years, we now see that we do not have to discuss what comes first, the chicken or the egg – the search or the appropriations. Now there are a lot of teachers who want to continue their training. The working party believes that we have to follow up with an even stronger commitment to this, so that we can make the most of the offer. We want an even higher rate. We went to the elections to double the state subsidy for continuing education. We believe that we should do that as quickly as possible, so that we now use the momentum we have, with a great interest among the teachers. The second thing that the government spent part of the education money on in its re-prioritisation was a professional boost. One of the big fan cases in that case was an apprentice grant of 50,000 to all new companies that took in apprentices. Ten million for that granted by the government. kr, and we should probably have been a little bit more, we should say, «sensory» in the education committee and the calculations of the minister of knowledge, because this was where – it turns out later – the bomb with the ten-timer. Each year it will be approx. 2000 new apprenticeships. Ten million. NOK 50000 per holding is limited to 200. Here's a 90-million undercover. kr, provided that the incentive allowance does not provide a single additional apprentice enterprise other than that which has been normal in recent years. When, in the spontaneous morning of 4 June, the Minister of Finance, perhaps a little unprepared, got this question from the undersigned, she said: ‘I am still in the situation that I have to check this with the Ministry of Knowledge. They are responsible for this. If they believe that new estimates have now been made that show a different trend, we must of course correct them.’ I note that the revised budget that we are adopting today does not correct for this deficiency, on the contrary. You're increasing from 10 million to 20 million. kr, so now you haven't bombed with the ten-timer, you've bombed with the five-timer. It's not very comforting for all the companies and the states that are now in the situation that the government has promised 50,000 to each new apprentice enterprise, but only grants NOK 10,000 to each new apprentice enterprise. The question then becomes who is responsible for following the government's entirely concrete promise. Who is responsible for following up the clear decision of the Great Britain? Will the county councils take money from other purposes, from high school, from cultural or road purposes, to cover a promise that the government itself is not willing to pay? I believe it is to lead the companies behind the light. These are responsible business owners, managers and environments that take responsibility for apprenticeship training. Then you can't give them promises you don't keep. Finally, with the municipal economy and the under-covering of kindergartens. It's all right to miscalculation, and the estimates are allowed to go wrong, but then you have to fix it. The problem here is that children's playgrounds are regulated, so many of these children's playgrounds still have to be provided by municipalities. What they're forced to do is get the money from other sectors. In this way, the education sector is very vulnerable, so I'm very afraid that this arrangement is primarily to weaken the knowledge economy and the knowledge effort in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2119	In today's setting, I particularly noticed one of the first sentences in the Workers' Party's main comment. It says that ‘no government has assumed responsibility for a country in a better constitution’. You have to listen to self-crust, because it uses to come from the heart. I also noticed Mr. Gahr Støre's posts on labour market figures and such things. What was at the time was that a government had taken some strong action in the Norwegian economy, enabling the Norwegian economy to take on the amazing growth that came after internationally, which created an enormous number of jobs in Norway. It's probably the best period of Norwegian economy is going to experience. I still have the pleasure of seeing some leaders who were on the line that the Newspaper was in 2005, that the new ‘government came to a covered table’, so that reality I think we can discuss. The question is whether the Workers' Party has sky posters. It must have been recorded that we are in a situation where the oil activity may begin to ‘dive’ sharply. We have a level of costs that has risen sharply – even in relation to our trading partners – we have weak innovative capacity, and we have a number of things that signal that our competitiveness is not the way it should be. I'd like to say – and we all have to pinch our arms for that kind of in between – that we live in a country that is very good to live in. What's the question, is how we're going to manage it in the future to ensure and further develop the well-being we actually have. Then the weakened productivity growth becomes absolutely central. This has been taken into account by the government, for sustainability and consistency between cost levels and productivity are very central. In previous budgetary documents, under the red-green government, a figure was produced for several years that showed very clearly that Norwegian productivity growth was faster and faster than that of our trading partners until 2006. Since 2006, we have had low productivity growth, partly lower than our trading partners have had. Here, the NHO has also pointed out that the consumption of fixed capital in the mainland industry is higher than the level of investment, and it is a weathering strategy that the country needs to avoid if we are to ensure future well-being. It is obvious – as the Fleet also said in its contribution – that a future sustainable well-being must be based on our being able to develop mainland Norway and develop our brain power so that we are competitive internationally. It's about competitiveness whether we think the oil can lift us up, or we think we're now starting a tough feeding period to see how much oil should actually be able to carry forward. There's the government on the right track. We focus on growth-enhancing tax relief. Discrimination against Norwegian ownership must be abolished, as ownership is central to future jobs, particularly in District Norway. We focus on transport, and infrastructure in general is hugely central if we are to be able to develop all of Norway. We focus on knowledge, research and development, in particular what is aimed at improving the ability of business to boost innovation and creating new products. Knowledge goes from the skilled worker and up, that's what is the key to developing Norwegian productivity. I think the revised national budget is a careful adjustment. Of course it is, it is the government budget for the harvest that is really going to show which grip to take, but I think we did a series of grips in the previous state budget that indicated a very good direction. If we are to manage – as I have said before – to further develop the world's highest welfare, we also need to have productivity at the top of the world, and we need to have a business that has framework conditions that make them invest for the future and create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2132	I record that we read each other’s comments – that’s good. I have also read the right-wing parties, and I note that in their comments in the vote they comment that the government in the revised national budget implements ‘a sober revision of the budget because economic developments indicate that there is no need for major adjustments now’. However, they stress that ‘the use of oil money remains ‘centrally’ and that ‘the government conducts a responsible economic policy based on the rules of action for the use of oil money’. This is worth a reflection. One thing is that it must be frustrating for the representatives of the Progress Party now to stand behind such a remark, after all the years of these debates we have heard from the Progress Party that the rule of action is to be scrapped as soon as they come into government. Another thing is that government parties don't see the need to make major changes now. It is mainly the budget of the red-green government that they govern, with some adjustments from the new government last autumn, which turned the policy in some areas, and even fewer adjustments now revised. The government parties confirm with what we say, that no government has assumed responsibility for a country in a better constitution than the Solberg government. From 2005 to 2013, 350,000 new jobs have been created in the country, the State pension fund has more than tripled, and Community solutions for all have been the main priority. When the red-green government took over, the economic differences between people in Norway were greater than in Sweden. Now it's the opposite. It is a Norwegian economy that is in good condition, with Europe's lowest unemployment and higher growth than in the countries around us, which the Solberg government has taken over. Historical investment in road and rail, municipal budgets for elderly care and school, kindergartens and efforts to make schools and kindergartens even better, provides a very good basis to build on for the Solberg government. Nevertheless, there are some changes made in the budget, which had to be corrected in the revised version, which appeared to be errors of calculation, but which now prove to be conscious priorities — a change in government policy. The Left and Christian People's Party had the opportunity to correct these errors that the government made in its proposal, but they did not use the chance, or simply did not get through. Instead, we see a settlement that supports the government's proposals on changes to the tax-free system and in fees on boat engines, which adds a little to non-governmental organisations, but does not allow to fully compensate for the cut-off in the nursery allowance, leaves behind the reversal of cut-offs in the permitting scheme and increases labour market measures, and leaves no room for increasing assistance to the victims of the Syrian Civil War. This shows what course this government and the Christian People's Party and the Left will take and what they give priority to. The revised national budget also shows a government that is in disrepute with the people and does not listen. Norwegian young children’s parents, workers and businesses are at the heart of these priorities. Several thousand families have no children's garden space, show figures from municipalities and KS. The working party prioritizes to reverse the cut government did. Intensification of the legislation on permitting introduced during the harvest has led to an increase in unemployment. Business owners, LO and NHO, the construction industry and others have notified the consequences, at the latest at the hearing of the Financial Committee in the context of the revised national budget. But the government is turning the deaf ear. The Minister of Finance says that the government has good contact with the business community, and believes that there is a normal situation and no need to make changes. The business community says something else. The Workers' Party reverses the tightening-up of the Permitting Code as of 1 July 2014. Nor has the government listened in time to the industry in order to initiate the notification of the continuation of the exemption from the electricity charge for the wood processing industry to ESA which expires on 30 June 2014. In its proposal for a revised national budget, the government says that they are now working. However, the preparation for notification and its processing in ESA will take time to end the exemption from 1 July. The wood processing industry must pay a reduced rate until the continuation of the exemption may be clarified with ESA. Here the government has slept an hour, as the State Council Helgesen expressed it earlier today in the case of a differentiated employer's fee. Industry has long called for government involvement, but has not been heard. We now have a government that prioritises ideological solutions for another time rather than solving people's everyday challenges in today's reality. I hope the government parties spend time until they put forward the new state budget well, listen to the people, to the business and industry and correct the mistakes of this year, but unfortunately I think this is a deliberate policy and not just start-ups.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2155	Differentiated pay for employers is one of Norway’s most important regional policy tools. The system is unbureaucratic and effective and stimulates the labour market in the districts – which is important in terms of settlement. This scheme ensures the basis for profitable operation for very many businesses in the districts. Differentiated employer’s fee means that employers in the district have a lower employer’s fee than the general rate of 14.1 pst. The municipalities are divided into zones, graduated from 0 to 14.1 pst. in the various zones. It is unfortunate that Norway now has to base new guidelines on the continuation of a differentiated employer’s fee. The system of differentiated employer charges is to be seen as regional State aid and must be approved by ESA according to the regional aid guidelines. The European Commission and ESA adopted new guidelines for regional aid on 19 June 2013. So we all know about the process that has been behind the decision, and also the consequences for the parties that it is in force. It is gratifying that all municipalities that have today differentiated the employer’s fee will continue to do so, and that 31 new municipalities will be included in the scheme from 1 July 2014. Common to these municipalities are weak population development, employment or economic growth. The geographical extension of the scheme is estimated to provide a fee of 500 million, in isolation. kr. In my home country, Telemark, already seven municipalities are included in the scheme, and now there are additional three municipalities in the scheme. It's Drangedal, Nome and Hjartdal who are in Zone 2 of the order, with 10.6 pst. employer’s fee. So in Telemark, 10 out of 18 municipalities now come into the system. There's unison feedback that this is a very important scheme for the municipalities. So to what's made headlines and reactions to the decision on 19 June, which means there'll be more sectoral exceptions. The transport sector, the energy sector, aerodromes, the steel sector, the synthetic fibres sector, the insurance and financial sector and the head office functions and certain group advisory services are excluded. The consequences for District Norway are great, and especially for North Norway, but also for North Trøndelag. The majority have also commented on the position of the proposition, where we now point to the fact that the Namdal municipalities in the North Trondelag have in many ways the same regional policy challenges and instruments as North Norway. It is therefore natural for the government to assess on an ongoing basis whether the compensation scheme through infrastructure measures should also cover adjacent geographical areas. There are many of us who have received concerns from companies that are subject to sector exemption, and they clearly express the negative impact on their businesses. The government has worked intensively with compensatory measures, and the government suggests that the amount of compensatory measures should correspond to the increase in the levy applied by the sectors concerned for the period up to 2020. Proposals for government measures are the free-of-charge scheme for all sectors, and the proposal estimates a book value of 150 million in 2014. kr. The government proposes compensation in the form of infrastructure measures and an increase in the purchase of passenger transport services by the state of 1.6 billion. kr in the period until mid-term review in 2018. In 2014, the government proposed a total increase of 124 million. NOK in such aid. The county's additional costs associated with the purchase of transport services suggest a compensation of 44 million. SEK in 2014 through the increase of skin supplement included in the free income. Compensation for the net pay system: one proposes to increase the contribution to the employment of seafarers in order to increase the height of the fleet layers within the net pay scheme by an estimated 25 million. kr in 2014. In the hearing on 16 June, feedback was received from, among others. KS and NHO that they were satisfied with the work that had been done, and they were reasonably satisfied with the calculations, but underlined at the same time that one had to come back to the revised budget for 2015 with an assessment of the impact of the measures and possibly propose changes. In the hearing, there was also a clear concern from the county councils about county roads. The majority of respondents have said that in the context of the 2015 government budget, one assesses compensation for the county council's additional costs resulting from changes in the differentiated employer fee and the scheme associated with investment, operation and maintenance of county roads. Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, for his good work on the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2187	The government has a broad approach to climate work. Norway shall become a low-carbon society by 2050. We must therefore have looked forward to the future while taking the right decisions today. A solution to climate challenges requires a cut in global emissions. The government works for international frameworks that contribute to low-carbon development, an ambitious global climate agreement, an efficient global allowance market and an international price of greenhouse gas emissions. The government also prioritises concrete climate initiatives that can contribute to large and rapid emissions reductions. Key areas of action are international climate and forest policy, the development of efficient international quota markets, the phasing out of subsidies to fossil fuels, short-lived climate drivers and clean energy in developing countries. At the same time, the government continues its efforts to cut emissions nationally. In order to strengthen the climate agreement, the government has, among other things, Highly committed on rail in the 2014 budget, increased funding for bicycle routes and established incentive mechanism for walking and cycling routes, proposed to speed up the phasing-out of oil fires in state-owned buildings by two years and proposed to shoot in 12,75 billion. more to the climate and renewable energy funds and energy conversion in order to increase the annual rate of return. This deposit will be an important contribution to the transformation we need as a society. Climate technology is not only a solution nationally but also internationally. New green solutions will make it easier for other countries to choose a path that does not increase emissions. This is green growth – growth that the government is actively promoting. The agreement to be adopted in Paris in 2015 must be based on the objective of limiting global warming to two degrees. It requires all large emitters to have ambitious and numerical emission targets. The main line of design of a new Norwegian emission obligation is described in RNB. Norway will take its responsibilities and contribute to the most ambitious agreement possible. In order to achieve the necessary emission cut, a new agreement must facilitate market-based cooperation on emission reductions and increased involvement of the private sector. Today, the lack of demand for foreign quotas, or the CDM they are also called, has caused the market to collapse. Many allowances are now floating around at a gibran price. Purchases of such allowances have no climate impact. Therefore, we now only buy allowances from projects where revenues from trading of allowances are essential for the survival of measures as an air-conditioning project. By 2015, mobilising political leadership is crucial. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I myself will attend the United Nations Climate Change Summit in New York in September. The aim of that meeting is both to stimulate new, ambitious initiatives and to contribute to an ambitious Paris agreement. The Government will work towards a constructive contribution to the international climate negotiations. We have no solution to the climate challenges without developing countries being given the choice to grow in a clean or climate-damaging way. Therefore, the development of clean energy in developing countries is our second largest climate action under the Climate and Forest Initiative. We are seeking to focus our efforts on clean energy, so that we can maximise our climate impact. Towards Paris in 2015, it is important to focus on early action and to see opportunities for green development. Together with the European Commissioner for Climate Change, Connie Hedegaard, I would also like to invite you to a ministerial meeting in New York in September. It is a follow-up to the meeting we had in Brussels on 30 April this year. The aim is to bring together countries across groupings to review traditional dividing lines. It is a prerequisite for global action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2206	A unanimous rally said before Christmas that they wanted a separate case to the Stortinget about the arrangement of Norway's international climate action. I think most of us who were behind that proposal, so for us, we should get a case on it to get our own debate on this important topic. Instead, the government has introduced this as a small part of the revision, and we do not get the proper debate that we saw for ourselves. Now we've learned: the next time we're going to propose a case, we're going to make it clear that we're asking for a case of our own. We wanted this, for example. also to discuss the New York Summit, to which the Minister referred. But my question to the minister is, how does she now see fit to include the Stortinget and anchor the policy – first towards Lima in December and then towards Paris in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2215	We have said that we will invite Stortinget to this important debate on climate through ordinary processes. We want to use the state budget to find out what we have to do nationally, and we have said that we will use the revised national budget to describe what we are going to do internationally. We have also said that we will return to Stortinget in the first quarter of 2015 with what should be our national contribution to Paris 2015. So we think it's right to use the ordinary processes to discuss what we fully agree on is one of the most important things now: reducing emissions and working internationally for it while at the same time working for a shift of the low-carbon society in Norway by 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2222	The Labour Party said earlier in ours that we wanted to overfill Kyoto 2, among others. by purchasing more allowances, which we also add to our alternative revised national budget. The Prime Minister said at the Right Country Meeting that this was climate-lifted at cheap sales and that it does not provide guarantees for lower emissions. It is in stark contrast to what the government itself writes in the revised national budget: ‘Buying climate allowances in developing countries, in order to meet our international obligations, contributes to global emission reductions, to the transfer of technology and knowledge to developing countries and to the development of allowance markets.’;» My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is therefore whether she agrees with the Prime Minister that the purchase of allowances is climate policy on cheap sales, or whether she agrees with what the government itself writes – that this is an important contribution to global emissions cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2234	There is no contradiction between what the government writes in the RNB and what the Prime Minister said at the Højre National Meeting. What the Prime Minister called for at Højre's national meeting was a reinforced effort in climate policy, and the message was that we cannot rely on easy solutions. I notice that the new head of the Workers' Party said that when you sit around the breakfast table and discuss what individual can contribute to the climate work, the answer is not to buy climate quotas. That's what the Prime Minister was clear about. We want a quota market that works, then it's useful. At the same time, we must work to reduce emissions nationally. So there's no contradiction between what the government writes in RNB and what the Prime Minister has said. However, for the quota market to work, it must actually contribute to the reduction of climate emissions, and it has not recently done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2241	I would like to continue a little bit with climate quotas, because there is a lot of confusion in climate policy. On the one hand, emissions in Norway are higher today than they were in 1990. At the same time, we overcomply with the Kyoto Protocol through the purchase of climate allowances with dubious effects. I think there's a consensus that there's a questionable effect of many of the CDMs. When we are about to conclude a new climate agreement, my question about whether the Council of States agrees that we must first and foremost focus on the obligations we are going to have in Norway, in order to implement the necessary changes and clearly distinguish it from so-called flexible schemes, from measures internationally. Forest management is an important international measure, but it should be self-valued and not offset against implementation in Norway or Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2248	I think it's right here it's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. We're saying that we want a binding, international agreement. If we get effective mechanisms, so that we can also use Norwegian money to reduce emissions globally, so that we get more for Norwegian money, I think both the finance minister and the global climate are happy about that. But this should not prevent us from also working to reduce cuts in Norway. That's why, together, we have an ambition to get to the low-emission society in 2050. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is also very clear that we must have negative emissions, we must simply bind more carbon. But we need to see that the climate challenge is global, and achieving effective mechanisms internationally is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2253	The term ‘phase-out’ is described in the dictionary as gradually disappearing. That's why I'm very pleased that the government statement said: ‘Safe phase-out of fossil oil firing in all public buildings by 2018 and prohibit the use of fossil oil for heating in all buildings from 2020.’;» In today's VG, we can read that the government obviously has not read the dictionary, because there, Erna Solberg says that when she wrote that she wanted to phase out firing with fossil oil, she just meant phasing out the baseload of fossil oil. Why in the world has it been that the government has chosen to go away from its promise in the government statement to ban the use of fossil oil and phase out fossil oil firing in all public buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2270	Just as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås accuses us of not having read the dictionary, the representative knows what is in the climate agreement. As regards the ambition of the climate agreement to phase out oil firing, it was also assumed to be based on baseline load. What the Prime Minister said, and as we have followed up in the RNB, is to accelerate the phase-out of the baseload, as foreseen in the climate agreement, in state construction two years earlier than the climate agreement laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2275	Now the Council of State is running a classic exercise from this pulpit, namely to answer something other than what I asked for. I know very well what the climate agreement says – it is a reference to the base load and the point load. But I also see the government statement, and it was the government statement – that is, Tine Sundtoft’s government’s own promise of phasing out fossil oil firing in all public buildings by 2018, and prohibiting the use of fossil oil – I asked why the government has run away. I'm not talking about the climate agreement, I'm talking about the government statement that Tine Sundtoft is running the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2281	As the representative Eidsvoll Holmås refers to the government statement, it is quite correct, but it does not say specifically what is basic load and what is top load. We have based the government statement on what the Storting itself has adopted in the climate agreement, and the fact is that we are accelerating the phasing out of state building two years earlier than what is in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2286	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2289	The best thing to say about the first revised budget of the Right-wing Party government is that it shows direction and clarifies blue-blue policy. We get a glimpse of what the parties use their freedom of choice for, that is, in the choice of political options. They have chosen freedom to the richest through reduced taxes on wealth – perhaps whether it is corporate investment or private consumption that takes advantage of it – freedom for boat owners who can obtain a cheaper boat engine and freedom for those who really have enough money and travel a lot, to reduce their expenditure on wine. There's something puzzling about this, something populist in the negative sense of the word. When true, to say: there are right-wing policies of old good brand, icy moments from a party that has lived all its years on people's often acute and short-term dissatisfaction. The revision provided opportunities for correcting some of the errors in government budget treatment, including: the need for more children's playgrounds, but boat engines and tax-free use of children's playgrounds. Taxes increase the number of hours spent by firefighters who are involved in the construction of sports facilities and thought that VAT would be refunded. The tennis club in Bergen sent a letter warning that they thought they would get between 10 million kroner. NOK 12 million. kr in VAT refund. But with the appropriations adopted here today, they will lack about 6 million. kr. There'll be a lot of cacolotters to cover up for that sum, maybe they can hope that the tax dollars will increase the purchasing power. On the question of whether one is disappointed that the government does not propose money to several kindergartens, the Right Town Council, Hove, in Bergen, answers that yes, he is. By the way, it was the same right-wing politician who criticized the original kindergarten budget with a sarcastic statement to the Official Journal of Bergen. That's not what they meant by new ideas and better solutions. The rapporteur and senior right-wing politicians in Tønsberg regret that the cut prevents them from complying with child care laws. In Lillesand, the rapporteur will address the matter with the central authorities and parties involved in national policy. We can see that he didn't make it. The right-wing Drammen rapporteur has sent a letter to the Stortinget and the Department and hopes that they will realise that the cuts will have to be compensated. Neither was he heard. Before the elections, the Right Party and the Advance Party were to strengthen the kindergarten effort. Leading representatives from both parties spoke out almost contemptuously about the lack of efforts of the previous government to secure the smallest children's kindergarten. Implementing power has now been replaced by review force – we have to wait and evaluate. Could it be complicated to realize that there are not fewer nursery places that are the answer, when the one-year-olds need space? Could there be a need for an investigation to understand that municipalities need funding when there are more applicants? And can you convince young children’s parents, businesses and municipalities that it’s better with NOK 1,000 in increased cash support instead of kindergarten? No, it's hard. Right spokesperson, Svein Harberg, makes desperate attempts in newspaper posts to accuse me of running so-called black paint. If he's right, at least I have something in common with a lot of people in his own party. The Minister of Knowledge, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, is not only happy, but he is very pleased that his own nursery budget was stopped already in the great-sports of the Christian People's Party and the Left, who fixed up some of the cuts. The working party has used the revised possibilities. We have corrected the allocations to municipalities in relation to kindergartens, just as we did in 2012, when we saw that the estimates that were made did not vote. We used the knowledge. And we have provided increased appropriations for VAT compensation, so that sports facilities and sports laws do not charge the bill for an unfair tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2310	First, as several others have done, I would like to pay tribute to Lisbeth Berg-Hansen as the case rapporteur for the differentiated employer's fee and compensatory measures. She has done solid political crafts in a very short time. Here, Stortinget has proven itself from its best side, both in terms of acting quickly and the ability to merge on good solutions. It is good that the so-called cooperation parties saw – or rather realised – that it was necessary to go further than the government proposed in its proposal. Today there are many companies in the major transport, energy, finance and insurance sectors that look brighter in the future than they did a few days ago, and they deserve it. Similarly, for county municipalities, where increased costs threaten investment in the operation and maintenance of county roads, there is a need for action. It is not enough that compensation should only be provided for increased transport costs. There is a clear picture of the size of the population, and the government parties agree that, as far as the state budget is concerned, it is not initially ‘we’ anymore, I understand, in the 2015 state budget, they will assess compensation for increased costs for the county roads. I'm assuming that the government understands what that language means. Either in the case of business or in the case of the public undertakings concerned, the effects of the compensatory measures shall be closely monitored and whether they do not extend to, shall and must act as described in the adjustment. This is a very important thing north of the country, good solutions here are also highly crucial for corner stone farms and other actors in many district municipalities in several other regions of the country, including the hinterland – Hedmark and Uppland – where eight other new municipalities are now involved, and that is good. It is very important that one does not find that the transport sector is defined by the ESA scheme. Here's all the reason for the offensive rematch. Good luck to those who will do the job, with additional intensity and the strong support of Storting! I am and unfortunately still am amazed at the total deaf ears of the government parties for a united working life. Employers’ and employees’ organisations and industries of almost all kinds protest loudly and massively against the rules of permitment introduced by the government and the majority here in the Chamber from New Year. It's all the other reason to knock on the chest because fewer workers are now permitting, when it ends up on notice. People lose their jobs, and businesses lose their skills, because the lay-offs have become too expensive. When I heard the representative Hagesetter's answer to my question earlier today, I realized that the Progress Party clearly believes that the business community has or may have abused the old rules. I wonder about that, and I should have liked to have it documented in more detail. I believe that the old rules balanced well, according to the different considerations. It's almost even more amazing that the Christian People's Party and the Left are not doing anything about these permitting rules. If you have chosen to be on the same boat, it may not be possible that tax cuts on suspension engines are more important. For the Workers' Party, at least there is no doubt about what is most important. I am seriously concerned about the municipal sector, and once again it seems that the government's ability to listen is limited, as Rigmor Aasrud had several examples from the government's own ranks. Tax revenue fails — and unfortunately more than anyone saw separately. Unfortunately, this does not seem to worry the government, and new tax cuts are probably under way from that edge. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left – which I believe have understood more than they have when the municipalities are now going to get back less than half of the money to the statutory kindergarten courts, which the majority of them took from them before Christmas – have received, but very limited, justified in a later documented error that the extension of the cash support scheme would give reason to remove kindergarten places. The government won't do anything about it, we never believed it. With our budget plan, the municipalities would get each and every coroner back, sail if we never took the money. We are also concerned about the economy of the county council – very worried. The scheme announced for 2015 will call the worst economic situation of the county councils, and this goes beyond the offer of youth – and our roads are getting worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2331	The Norwegian economy is going well, it looks like we're all agreed on. But I would like to remind you that during last year's throne debate there were several representatives of the red-greens who in this Chamber stated that the Norwegian economy was bottom-solid – despite their own 2013 perspective announcement that the social-democratic welfare state over time is not sustainable, despite the fact that we, ironically enough, became more oil dependent than ever under a so-called red-green government, and that there were 15,000 more poor children in Norway under the red-greens. Analyst Magne Østnor in DNB Markets said last year that the big picture is that Norway has gone from being a different country with a positive sign to another country with a negative sign. This happened in February 2013, seven months before the election. It was the legacy after eight years of red-green rule. Both the Prime Minister and, in particular, the Minister of Finance have placed the importance of growth in productivity on the agenda. We have high employment, but are close to the bottom of the OECD measured in the number of hours of work per person in pre-age employment. In addition, Norwegian salaries are almost 70 pst. above – not China, but the OECD average. The high level of costs is not just a challenge for the non-competitive industry; we see that the level of costs is pushing industries that deliver to the petroleum industry. About 210 000 jobs are directly or indirectly linked to the demand from oil companies, so even though it is mainly good in the Norwegian economy, with economic growth, low unemployment and high employment, I would not describe the economy as a bottom-solid and just kept the price. Already in the 2014 budget, the government implemented growth-enhancing tax incentives and shifted the use of money towards forward-looking investments in transport and knowledge. It was the beginning of a new direction for Norway. Savings in property taxes were one of these. Former Minister of Industry Trond Giske and then LO leader Roar Flådhen also looked at the possibility of removing property taxes on working capital, precisely because it could threaten Norwegian industrial development and Norwegian jobs, but in opposition it is referred to rhetoric for those who have the most from the past. And if simple rhetoric is the only thing you can do to get up to one of the biggest questions in Norway, which is what we're going to live on after the oil, it's time for a government shift. When it comes to rhetoric, it's always easy to look like someone else's money. In the newspaper today, we finally got a response to where the Workers' Party would pick up the extra billion for Syria from: the aid budget, state-to-state cooperation, infrastructure and educational projects in developing countries. It's taking away those that have at least already. Education is the key to poverty reduction, especially for girls and young women, a focus of this government. The revised budget is a revision and adjustments, but nevertheless I am pleased that there is room to remove another fee completely. The opposition would like to hoard the government's efforts to simplify and improve Norway, but illegitimate or poorly functioning taxes and charges will not become more legitimate or better effective if they go to meet legitimate needs. When the boat engine charge is relatively resource-intensive to charge, and a suspension can lead to a greater replacement for less noisy and more environmentally friendly boat engines, I do not understand the criticism. Speaking of environmentally friendly: I also see with pleasure that the government follows up with climate action that actually works. It is proposed to significantly increase the annual yield of the climate fund and the government proposes a capital injection of 4.25 billion. kr. With the step-up plan proposed by the government, the capital of the fund will be nearly 13 billion. kr higher in 2016 than foreseen in the climate agreement. With today's interest rate level, this escalation plan will generate a return from the fund of around 2 billion. kr in 2017. This is money that can create new green jobs and contribute to low-carbon development both nationally and globally. We've been getting increased efforts on public transport in the big cities. As an Oslo citizen without a «lap», I would like this more than to be warmly welcomed. Oslo has also been named Europe's most environmentally friendly city, and I know that the Oslo City Council has ambitious climate plans for the city. A growth of 10,000 inhabitants per year is expected in the years to come, and there are great demands for the development of sustainable infrastructure, so on behalf of my hometown I am pleased that the government is showing the power of action here as well, and I am happy to see also more development of bicycle paths and pedestrian routes. I am also one of those who, with great expectation, looks forward to the results of the Green Tax Commission, which begins its work for the autumn. Economic incentives work. To turn some taxes and taxes from red taxes to blue-green I have great faith in. At all: we have seen clear leads to a new policy that takes the country in a new direction, and with which I started, Norway needs a shift to ensure economic growth and a sustainable welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2357	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2360	The European Commission’s decision on the changes in regional State aid, i.e. the differentiated employer’s fee, and the negotiations that have taken place with the EU and ESA since our government took over last autumn, have been demanding. The case has also had a significant impact on business in District Norway. The right-wing Party government disagreed with these sector exemptions, because the RDA scheme is the most effective regional policy instrument we have. The government will ensure value creation throughout the country and therefore said that it would return the entire increase in fees in the affected regions to a crown. The European Commission presented the proposal for amendments last January. It was not until June that the legislation was adopted. When this legislation was first adopted, it was referred to negotiating its interpretation and trying to reach an agreement with the EU in order to limit the impact on Norwegian districts and Norwegian business. I would like to commend the government and the state councils involved in this process for making a very strong effort in meetings with the European Commission to influence the interpretation of the sector exemptions and to get an impact on the cuts and compensatory measures also with ESA. In this way, the government has made it clear to limit the adverse effects on business in the regions concerned. It is therefore a question of narrowing down and compensating measures, which have been set out by several members of the Financial Committee in their speeches, so I am not going to go into that in detail. However, we're going to have a big investment effort on infrastructure investments, $1.6 billion. kr, in the coming years in North Norway. That's good. Over 80 pst. by the proceeds in that case are linked to the three northernmost counties. However, other counties are also affected. To use Nord-Trøndelag as an example: 17 out of 24 municipalities are within the scheme, where the Namdal municipalities are in Zone IV. I am therefore pleased that several parties in the Committee have listened to the input from the Nord-Trøndelag, and to the majority comment, which indicates that the Namdal municipalities in the Nord-Trøndelag have in many ways the same regional policy challenges and instruments as North-Norway, and that it is natural that the government is asked to assess on an ongoing basis whether the compensation schemes should also cover these geographical areas. This issue is a good example of the importance of an active European policy, how important it is that Norway is early in the process of dialogue with the EU in matters that have or may have a significant impact on Norway. Only in this way can we influence regulatory design, legislation and matters while they are still in process. I am pleased that we have received a new government, and the Right is very pleased with the work of the European Minister and the new European strategy that the government has recently presented. It implies that we have to have our own European committee in the government. We get messages to the Stortingen directly in important EU and EEA cases, as well as the six-monthly presentation and the discussions we have in the European Committee. Like the government, we see that there are a number of opportunities in stronger Nordic cooperation on EU and EEA issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2377	In the revised national budget, it is a chapter devoted to the issue of Norway’s international climate contribution. I would say that it is a good summary of what Norway stands for, and it indicates in some areas the direction to Norway further. That's good. But if I were to say something about what is missing, and what kind of perspectives I think are missing in that presentation and chapter, on which we from the Committee really wanted to invite the Minister to debate, it would be as follows: Erna Solberg, our Prime Minister, has two favourite words: knowledge and implementation. In the spring we have received a clear message from the world community and from the world's climate experts about what it means, namely, that it is absolutely necessary to reduce the global greenhouse gas emissions very quickly. The changes are going on, and they're more dramatic than ever. Half of Norway’s population say they have experience from climate change, which would make it very possible to achieve an offensive climate policy. I have three things I want to draw out. Firstly, there is a lack of perspective on Norway’s share of fossil resources. It's not even being discussed. The IPCC says that there are at least five times as many fossil resources in the world as what we can afford to use if we are to prevent a warming of more than 2 degrees. Then I expected that we would at least discuss whether Norway would take part of the responsibility for leaving our fossil resources. Everyone understands that there is wealth in extracting fossil resources. The problem is that if we're going to leave any of that, we're actually going to have to look at what kind of share we're going to leave. The second is how much climate commitments we are going to assume by 2030. In the past, the Council of State has indicated that she wishes the government to present a policy based on a carbon budget. I think that's good, because the IPCC gives us a carbon budget of 750 gigatons. Well, then I expected us to say something about how much we're going to go out into the world and say that we're going to take off the total carbon budget. I believe that the government should draw expert opinions from the professional communities that exist in Norway in order to understand what proportion of the carbon budget is reasonable and fair for Norway to use. The third is that we have to do a job to achieve the goal of spending 100 billion dollars. dollars annually from 2020. I expect the government to explain to the climate summit in September how much of the money Norway should spend.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2390	In its comments on studies conducted by the State Institute for Drug Research, SV points to the fact that e-cigarettes can be an alternative for smokers, which drastically reduces health risks. They also promote a proposal that the Storting should ask the government to file a case on the regulation of sales of nicotine-containing e-cigarettes in this country. The report SV refers to, is written by research director Karl Erik Lund. He has stated that prohibiting e-cigarettes is like shutting the emergency exit because the fire escape is smooth. E-cigarettes can be a good way to quit smoking, and I'm sharing Lund's analysis. I find it strange that e-cigarettes are not legally available in Norway. Those who want to buy these are referred to their own imports, and we know that the e-sigments purchased over the Internet are of very different quality. The sale of e-cigarettes in Norway is therefore prohibited today, but they are easily accessible online. A new EU directive on the sale of e-cigarettes was adopted in winter. From 2016 onwards, the product shall be lawfully sold. How it is to be regulated is determined in each Member State. We are aware that the Ministry of Health already assesses the place of e-sigareties in tobacco policy. Regardless of what happens to the Tobacco Directive, the Ministry is examining the need for legislative changes because the tobacco regulation is difficult to enforce for the supervisory authorities. The Minister of Health has already informed Stortinget that he will assess whether e-cigarettes should be allowed to be sold in Norway. Both the Right and the Advance Party have expressed a positive opinion to make e-cigarettes legal in Norway. We are therefore pleased that the department is assessing this. In view of this, we do not consider it necessary to support the SV's proposal on a case-by-case basis, but we support SV's commitment to getting e-cigarettes assessed as legal sales products in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2403	It's the last day of the Biggest now. I am happy to be on the plane tonight with a course northwards. I am happy to experience Northern Norwegian summer. Evil tongues have called it a mild winter after snow showers now in June. I think that's unnecessary evil. I would like to remind you of Arthur Arntzen's words: "With a couple of good summers your snow disappeared." I'll talk about the northern regions. In 2005, Jonas Gahr Støre and the red-green government made northern areas Norway's main strategic bet area. Mental maps were reversed, and the arrow is now pointing in the right direction in the north. So where is the effort now? I even heard Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende giving an offensive talk about the northern regions of Tromsø after the elections. That's a good promise. But then it got quiet. It got completely quiet. The last year must now be called a lost year for the northern regions. It has been said today that the revised national budget is an opportunity to adjust the price. Well, when you don't want to go anywhere, have no course, there's nothing to adjust, and I feel that it is necessary to comment. This government has consistently failed to seize the chance when it has had it. Neither in the government statements, in the persuasion debate, in the state budget, in the foreign minister’s presentation, in the Prime Minister’s New Year speech, in the parties’ national meetings or in the revised national budget have new initiatives taken for the northern regions. In the budgets, the list is much longer than the list of priorities. Priority is given to tax cuts that benefit other parts of the country, and efforts that do not hit well in the north. In total, the north areas are going to get worse than a year ago. That's sad, because the North Region bet is important to Norway. It puts us on the map internationally. It gives us the best we can offer the world. It's probably too early to pass a verdict on this government's Northern Region policy. However, the in-flight assessment, based on this revised national budget, is that it does not take any new action. It's more about important bets, and it shows little interest in the northern regions. This revised national budget may provide evidence that those who wonder what the next major initiatives for the northern regions are need to look for places other than in government documents. Northern Region policy is important for Norway. It puts us on the map internationally, and it's also obviously too important to be left to today's control cameras.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2416	I listened with special interest to Gahr Støres and the representative of Marthinsen's posts. The representative Marthinsen was concerned with the two-part economy in Norway, while the representative Gahr Støre passed this in silence and pretended that there was no problem. It is the representative of Marthinsen who is right. But the representative Marthinsen is not right in his address of criticism. There was something that arose under the red-green government. During the period 2010-2012 there was a boom in the Kingdom. It is characterised by large increases in investment in the petroleum sector and in housing investment. Typically, when economic activity has risen, investment on a broad scale has risen, but this time investment growth in the mainland industry has been absent. As a result, overall depreciation is now greater than gross capital formation. The consequence of this is that production capacity is confused, and it is an expression of pessimism. It is the pessimism that the government must now turn to the red-green. The exchange rate with Norway is exceptionally good. We sell expensively, and we trade cheaply. But it's a little too optimistic to think that such a situation will persist. What we see is that we are becoming more and more dependent on our commodity-based exports, while the finished products now make up a smaller share of exports. It is precisely with this hindrance that the government is talking about increased competitiveness. It's the care for work, it's the care for the house and the home. That's why the government's efforts to strengthen research, to strengthen school and to strengthen culture, to mention it. We all know that the infrastructure is so important in order to be competitive. And finally, the importance of growth-enhancing tax incentives is central to the policy that the government is now leading to strengthen competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2428	Two hours ago, the store president and I were standing on the lion's tray, and the estate president took 169 such boats. It says our name on them, but it also says "A Lifeboat for Syria". The biggest president accepted the boats, but it's about accepting people. When the Kosovo war was at its worst, Norway took 6,000. Then the then big-time representative Inge Wohnning from the Right said that there was only one party that had a ‘robust enough conscience’ to say no. He also said that there was only one party, the Progress Party, that had “fantasi enough” to believe that it was possible to choose between helping here and helping there. And he said there was no one else who meant – the UN doesn't mean it, the aid organizations don't mean it. It's just the Advancement Party, then the Wage said, and he continued: ‘It is with respect to report somewhat sad that there is a political party in Norway that is unable to perceive this.’ Today, it is clearly a majority who are blind and deaf to the distress and distress of the UN and its relief organisations. There would have been a need for the right-hand side to tackle some politicians with the format that Inge Wohnung had, who were able to see that we had to do something when there was a crisis. Then we have to do what is necessary, and not least possible. SV has proposed this in the Stortinget which has been voted down. Today, there are some suggestions that at least a little work is to be done on the rules. The government can do that in the second they want. On the contrary, they have entered into an agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party to have strict rules where only the most adaptable are to come. Families torn up in war will not be allowed to come. Anyone who knows anything about war knows that then families split up. A family that has lost one of its loved ones should therefore be excluded from coming to Norway, because that could be too much, and that is the worst thing that can happen. The proposal presented today by the Central Party should all vote in favour. I will encourage as much as I can, also the Workers' Party to vote for it. The Labour Party has some suggestions in this setting, but it is no longer than two weeks since they voted against receiving more refugees. They voted against giving suspensive effect to those asylum-seekers who could be sent out of the country before new legislation is in place. So now I expect the Workers' Party to join in when the decisions are taken, and to take part in a majority decision that could at least mean that we are accepting some of those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2446	I will first address proposal No. 32 on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party and the Left. The reason for the proposal is the implementation of the Eurovignette Directive, which sets a maximum toll discount of 13 pst. This applies to heavy-duty vehicles. This was also applied to all vehicles during the previous period of treatment. This leads to an unreasonable increase in the burden on commuters by agreement. The proposal implies that the Stortinget authorises the Ministry of Transport to adjust the tariff and discount system for Rv. 23 Oslofordnung, E6 in Østfold and E18 in Agder. The adjustments to the tariff and discount systems shall be made in dialogue with local authorities and involve the neutralisation of proceeds for the latter two projects. The Oslo Earth Tunnel has already been paid down and is now in overtime. It is therefore extra unreasonable that the tariffs increase here. The government will use new tools to expand the infrastructure. Such an instrument is to establish a dedicated development company to lift several road projects and to implement them more effectively. The overall objective of the development company is to increase efficiency and to achieve greater socio-economic profitability overall in the transport sector within the framework set by the action rule. The Ministry proposes that the company should expand more fully than at present, make more efficient use of resources and make greater efforts on the most socio-economically profitable projects. The government provides flexible collective solutions in cities, enabling people to choose public transport in their everyday lives. I am pleased that the Committee emphasises that the objective is to make public transport solutions in cities so good that people choose this rather than other transport, rather than making it difficult for other transport solutions. If you want to reduce emissions from the transport sector, you need to put in place measures where traffic and emissions are the largest. I am pleased with both railway operations and heavy infrastructure subsidies in the largest cities. In many places, there is a great need to improve the provision of good infrastructure and safer traffic conditions for cyclists. I am particularly pleased that infrastructure investments related to school roads will be given priority. It has both a road safety and public health perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2459	The representative of Nils Aage Igstad has taken up the suggestion he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2462	This week, the Workers' Party took leave of our former party leader, Reiulf Steen. It was a touching funeral for the workman who took on the big job of being with and building the welfare state of Norway. But though he came from poor corps, as so many from his time, he had a great international commitment to be with and help those who had it even worse than himself. It's part of Norwegian history. Those who built the country wanted Norway to be a country facing the world. We were able to do that when we were the poorest. Then it's going to be a matter of course that we'll do so much more when we've ended up being the richest country in the world. The Right Party and the Advance Party say that we should ignore the percentage of Norwegian aid, because the state budgets have grown so large that one percent represents so much. What you're really saying is that we've become so rich that we can't afford to contribute as before. I think it's embarrassing that we have a government with a fiscal spokesperson who spent most of his post explaining that now a couple can buy a whole box of wine at tax-free, and did not mention the screaming need that is in Syria. Syria is the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time. Millions of people are driven away, and the human suffering is unfathomable. Syria doesn't have time for us to wait. History will judge us if we don't act. That is why it must be done today. The Labour Party has proposed to give a crisis pool to Syria, and I find it disappointing that the Stortinget is unable to gather on it today. Six months ago, our new government halved the extra quota for Syrian refugees. In the last few weeks, we have also seen how they opt out of those refugees who most needed to come to Norway, and receive those who need it least. Today, the Christian People's Party and the Left have boasted in this pulpit that they have now had the advantage of having an investigation into who it is to be accepted. I can't quite see what that investigation is going to lead to. For it is in the cooperation agreement between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left that these are the refugees with the greatest inclusion needs to be accepted. Then it goes without saying that the most affected refugees in Syria are not at the top of the list of those who have the greatest integration needs. Now we have seen what that proposal means in practice, so the Labour Party is going to support the proposal of the Centre Party, because we think it is a good proposal to take care of the interests of those who need it the most. Today, June 20th, is World Day of Refugees. Numbers we got today show that there have not been more refugees in the world since World War II. Unfortunately, we have a big deal and a government that is not willing to take the necessary responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2475	What almost led to an uprising in the region for Northern Norway when the consequences of the new system of differentiated employer charges ratified by the Norwegian authorities in March were now known, through this proposition from the government, turned into an emerging optimism. I am very pleased that a majority of the committee supports the good work done by the government in this work and that they support the proposals promoted by the government through this proposition. There is no doubt that a differentiated employer’s fee is the most comprehensive means of regional policy in Norway — and one of the most important. The scheme is accurate and very important for business development and housing in the districts. There was unnecessary doubt about the correctness of the decisions that were taken, and whether the government had handled the matter correctly when it was presented in March. There is no doubt now – at least in the majority here on the Stortinget, the Labour Party included – that the guidelines adopted by ESA on 23 October last year contained provisions restricting the type of activity that could receive support under the regional aid guidelines. The job that the government has done since we entered the government offices shows that, in dialogue and meetings with appropriate bodies – such as the European Commission – the government has clear approval for the inclusion of more businesses than was included in the original proposal for a decision of the European Union last June. I hear in the debate here today that there are still representatives from the red-green parties who did not fully understand what they were doing while they were putting in power to influence changes in the European Commission. Nor did they inform the Storting or the business community about the changes that would occur and that were already known in June last year. I am very pleased with the fact that the government, in its proposal to the Stortinget, is now proposing that the increased tax revenue should be returned to the regions concerned in full. This is expressed both through a free-of-charge and compensation scheme and not least through a structural fund for Northern Norway of 1.6 billion. kr for the period until 2018. It will be exciting to see which priority infrastructure measures come from the new scheme. Nor am I in doubt that the government will follow up the proposal of the majority of the committee to follow closely the legal developments in the EU/EEA and assess as soon as possible whether it is possible to make an impact on changes in the notification of the system of differentiated employer charges. Both the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party from the North have had a strong pressure on the government to work on this and will follow closely on this matter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2494	I would like to mention some of the priorities that the revised budget contributes to, among others. further increase of our operational capability, with increased allocation to the defence budget. The government is increasing the Army's allocation by 55 million. kr. This is a good news for Brigade Nord. The Brigades are the Army's main tool to prevent and manage security crises in Norway and to contribute to the defence of Norway and defence cooperation with our allies in NATO. It is important that the Brigade has a high operational level and that the departments have the necessary material and personnel with good competence. An increase in the budget will help to increase the skills and competences of personnel in increased training and training. An important and fundamental part of the skills of personnel is, among other things: competence to handle departmental weapons and personal weapons. This applies to training and training from the individual to the company level and coordination between departments. Shooting and weapons training are basic skills that can distinguish life from death when you are in sharp international operations. The departments of the Brig shall exercise more, the number of officers and the divisional orders shall be increased and the maintenance of the Army's material shall be prioritised in order to ensure the Army's access to relevant material. In addition, the Home Office will increase its budget by 45 million. kr. The funds shall be used for the purchase of personal clothing and equipment for the personnel of the Home Office, thereby increasing the quality of the exercise. Home security is a central part of our military and social preparedness. They contribute to national security and are a good and important partner for all defence sectors, together with allied forces, and in support of the police. The increased appropriations contribute to the modernisation of HV as development progresses. The defence’s ability to perform its tasks is a high priority for the Right Party Government. The increased allocation will strengthen the operational capabilities of the Home and Army in line with the long-term defence sector plan. This means reaching a higher operational level than originally planned in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2509	I want to start by giving praise to the government for the good political craftsmanship in the case of a regionally differentiated employer's fee. Because we woke up abruptly, several of us, when the sector exemptions became known. The fact that the Red-Green Government and former Mayor Navarsete did not find any reason to inform the Stortinget and also influence the European Commission to work towards the Council decision shows the total short-circuit that must have taken place in this matter in recent years. It should be assumed that experienced politicians understood how European policy was designed. The fact that it was in the ESA system before the impact was started is, to put it mildly, terrifying naive. It is therefore very good now to see a change of pace in European policy. We have a government that understands the system, and where it works much more actively. We have a government that has its own EU minister, a government with government councils and political leadership in the departments that is now constantly moving to Brussels to take care of Norwegian interests against our main market, Europe. The work directly against EU policy-makers and the Commission, as you know, has produced results, better than what is inherited, and not surprisingly, ESA has recently also approved the new guidelines that happily protect the taxi industry, parts of the transport industry, mining and oil and gas extraction, to mention something. In addition, the de minimis aid legislation has been introduced as far as is permitted following the involvement of industry. The result is that far more companies are getting a head refund on what they first assumed and feared. This limits the fee shopping by several hundred million kroner, which is shown directly on the bottom line of Nordic companies. The compensation scheme for increased costs, service contracts, increase in net pay and – not least – a separate infrastructure fund of 1,6 billion. until 2018, the national section compensates for crowns where the legislation does not allow direct compensation to the company. Nevertheless, a number of enterprises cannot be fully compensated. There is a broad majority for further work on the original system of differentiated employer contributions. It is an unbureaucratic and rigorous system, and I therefore hope that more people in this Chamber have now understood that it is Europe's politicians and policy makers with whom we need to have dialogue, not EU bureaucrats. It's as if our municipal politicians were going to fight for a change of laws to the County Council, to discover later that it was the people elected on the Grand Council, along with the government, who was responsible for this work. I hope we've learned, and I look forward to the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2522	Today we begin to understand so little that the story of Olav Digre has our forgery. Olav Digre, who the Church was quick to humiliate into the "Holy One", was in fact a tyrant. It was the Norse national hero Tore Hund who stopped Olav's men. He reluctantly hired in the battle of Stiklestad and water. The struggle was, in effect, a struggle for control of resources in the north. Despot Olav Digre had to have control of the fishing and trafficking of samar, finner and russars in order to gain control of the whole country, and he therefore strangled the grain trade with the preferred means in an attempt to get the northern countries to submit. Tore Hund wanted it different – it was supposed to be the northerners who would decide future for the country, not expansive forces from outside. Nearly a thousand years later, history is still as relevant. Northern Norway has experienced large and long-term growth in recent years. Developments have come as a result of targeted investment and cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Red-Green Government. Half a year inside the first state budget of the blue government, we see a whole new development – a completely different plan. Systematically, the government of North Norway is straining through an increase in the cost of employers, a local economy with an impact on the region, large cuts in regional development and the closure of strategic supplements – a tax policy that benefits other parts of the country. The targeting weakens North fishing through changes in universal service obligations, structuring, cutting programmes and subsidies, and an agricultural policy that hardens Arctic agriculture. Today we treat the compensation for an increase in the employer's fee, where it is infinitely easy for the government to pretend that it is being paid, while they really do not. You can back up your efforts in existing plans. Instead of investing in the north of Norway, the government will make the country part a source of petroleum and mineral extraction. A throat in the north to push forward a desperation that says yes to drilling in our most vulnerable areas. The plan will not only provide fewer jobs and less Nordic ownership in total, it will turn North Norway into a host country for external forces, where the northern countries will be put in the backseat. For SV, as for Tore Hund, the goal is diametrically opposite. We want North Norway on the premises of the Nordics, not on the premises of the oil companies, the shipping companies or the mineral companies. I'm notifying resistance in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2543	In the election campaign, the mantra from the Right and the Advance Party was that we needed a new and powerful government. We got a new government, but how effective it really is, I find it difficult to say anything about. That rhetoric is obviously put on the shelf for a while. In today’s debate, there has been a constant error of someone else – someone else’s responsibility. The government doesn't have to act on its own, because it's not your fault that it's going to be the way we now experience it. It is rules, the system or Stoltenberg that must bear responsibility. It must be delicious to rule when you really don't have to take any responsibility. The transfer to the kindergartens was cut. But when it turns out that the government's calculations are not keeping pace, it does not choose to give priority to correcting its own error calculation. I'm sorry, President, the representative of the Fleet has explained earlier in the debate that it was not counted wrong. The right is, as he said, a calculator part, and it was the system that was wrong. But the activating calculator party was unable to figure out how to prioritize people in front of the system. Even when you come to the Syrian refugees, it is clearly easy for the government representatives to sit quietly in the boat. It's not their fault. They do not need to prioritize residence permits for people who have physical traces of the war they have suffered. After all, it's all a system that's lying there, that says they're on safe ground. Nor do they have to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal for a Syria billion, because it has been more important to discuss whether this is a new principle of budgeting. Yes, it is good that we see what action is really – on World Day of Refugees even – when we know that there are 51.2 million refugees in the world, 33.3 million of them internally displaced. So we're going to discuss here what kind of situation they're going to be when they get here. Even there, the government is unable to show the power of action and say that this is wrong, let's do it differently. There would have been respect for that. I suspect that these are priorities, or a way to pursue politics, which are bad at the Christian People's Party and at the Left. I think we have noticed that in the debate. While the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party have been concerned about presenting the budget and the day as an important day marking a line, a change of pace and a direction in which to continue with the new government, the representatives of the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have had a different tone. Then it has been said that the real mark, the proper priorities and the new path will only appear when the budget is added to the harvest. It will be exciting to see if there will be more action of this type, or if there will be new paces for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2556	The representative of Tryve Schlagsvold Vedum tried in his post to give the impression that it smells sparse rubber and brake blocks of the Left and Christian People's Party in collaboration with the government parties. The punctuation of red-green cooperation we still remember. One important reason for the accident was the lack of trust in the red-green government in health and hospital policy. Battle violence Vedum resorts to factual errors from the pulpit and claims that earlier this week the Left voted to lay down the Rjukan Hospital. In fact, the left voted with the Centre Party, SV and the Green Party that localisation of emergency and food services must be part of the national health and hospital plan, and not take the opportunity from Stortinget to argue about hospital structure until we have adopted a national hospital plan. In the case of local hospitals and emergency and food services, I understand that the Center Party has a need for labelling, and they have a dear occasion with Rjukan. However, during the red-green government period, 13 local hospitals, emergency and/or food services are shut down. There must be part of a CV after eight years in government that the Center Party has an acute need to turn away. The fact in Hospital-Norway now is that it is the legacy of the corporate powers of the red-green government and the lack of a hospital policy anchored in the Stortinget we are now struggling with. The development plan for Rjukan and Kragerø Hospital is an example of this. More closely to the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum and myself is the situation in the Hospital Inland in Hedmark and Oppland. Last year, Department 1B, a large specialised department for long-term and serious mental illness, was closed at Reinsvoll Hospital in Oppland. After ten years of building up the tipped bet on bipolar disorders, Hospital Inland concluded that it was in line with so-called national guidelines, i.e. policy priorities. Now Health South-East – a part of which is the Inland Hospital – will purchase such offers for 440 million. kr. All the skilled employees in the public offer of Reinsvoll, who are now scattered for all the winners, and all the patients and relatives who fought for the offer there, realize that this appears to be a poorly tuned political carousel. Many in Western Uppland are now shaking their heads, not least when we see that Elverum has positioned himself during the last year with a private offer, and that some of the offer that was closed at Reinsvoll has moved to Sanderud Hospital in the representative of the Battle of Vedum's municipality of residence. For the Left, the contrast is quite great between a red-green majority government, and where the parties only had influence in the departments of their own party, and a blue minority government that depends on the Left and Christian People's Party. Now we get the debate on the priorities in Stortinget – not around different backrooms. We also see the difference between a Health Minister from the Workers' Party, who drove businesses in front of him, and a Health Minister from the Right, who actually dares to take active political responsibility. For the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it has been important to provide increased resources to ensure both increased capacity and more competence to treat serious mental illness. In the case of Health South-East's choice to buy increased capacity in the form of private spaces, there is a choice they themselves have to make. The increased funds do not bear a stamp from the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party that they must be used only for private or non-profit actors. They can also be used to build up offers under their own direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2575	The right-hand party government invests in the knowledge society. It is very gratifying to see the change of pace that we have now achieved together with the cooperation parties on behalf of the community of competences. In this context, I would like to highlight the great effort we have in continuing training of teachers. Seven out of ten members of the Education Association have expressed a desire for further training. In the spring we saw the result of the bet and the wish of the teachers: 7 000 applications – and 4 300 granted by the school owners. These are historical figures and a development that shows that today's government has done very well with the organization of the scheme. Higher set-up rates and the devices this provides have actually covered the actual costs that have been incurred. In addition, the State has increased its share and thus dampened the pressure on the Norwegian municipality economy. In addition, we have removed the proportion of those taking real-life continuing education. With further efforts in the revised national budget, some 3550 teachers are now being offered further training. We're gonna bet on it. The objective shall be a normal state in which continuouscompetence will become a part of everyday school life. In addition, I would like to draw up an implementation of support for the PC for those with difficulty in reading and writing. This is a scheme that was completely incomprehensiblely removed by the red-greens in 2010 — to great protests from parents, students and not least Dyslexia Norway. The cheer was similar from several when we followed up our election vow and secured the reintroduction of an important scheme for a weak student group. Basic skills in reading and writing are crucial for further education. It understands today's government, Prime Minister and Minister of Knowledge. Norwegian competitiveness depends on our capacity for innovation and skills building. Norway cannot compete on its own earnings. Therefore, it is also great to further strengthen basic funding for the higher education sector by 50 million. kr and strengthen the performance-based redistribution and interconnection mechanism with EU research. Norwegian researchers must reach out to the top environments in Europe. If we are to succeed, we must build on the best in Europe. We need to cooperate on projects, and we need to strengthen our research efforts towards international and European institutions. The government and the cooperation parties have promised to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness and build the knowledge society. Now that shows that we're delivering.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2597	About a year ago, it was against elections. Then Robert Eriksson, current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, ran around and talked about a pensioner. The current prime minister, Jan Tore Sanner, told the pensioners that his party would reverse the 2011 tax conversion, where two-thirds of the country's pensioners, i.e. those with low and medium pension income, received tax relief, and the high-income ones received some tax tightening. I could not hear that Finance Minister Siv Jensen in his speech earlier today mentioned tax relief to the pensioners among the measures that the government intends to implement. I have also not heard that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has mentioned the pension scheme after the government change of the last harvest. On the other hand, I have recorded that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has conducted this year's discussions with the pensioners' organisations, providing for an extension of the pension scheme through a curtailment of 0.75 p.m. relative to the average wage development of employees here to countries. Without going by one mine, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs continues to manage a discussion system that he not only opposes, but which he has described as a pure rule. Of course, I have a certain understanding that the Progress Party with a connection of 16 pst., hardly has the power to reverse a pension system for which all the other parties are, although that is exactly what you tried to imagine the voters last harvest. On the other hand, both the government parties and the support parties were determined to reverse the tax conversion. As one of those who, after the turn of the year, belongs to the pensioner group that in that case can meet a certain amount of tax relief, I am naturally interested to hear when this conversion comes. In the government statement of last autumn, the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed that it is unreasonable for the pension of spouses and cohabiting pensioners to be reduced by 15 pst. in relation to single pensioners. On the other hand, it is quite reasonable for spouses and cohabitants to be shortened by 10 pst. for the obvious benefit of living together. The question, of course, is how long the country's pensioners must live with this unfairness. I will not be particularly surprised if at best we have to wait for the revised national budget for 2017, or most likely for the state budget for 2018 – just before the government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2608	Like Steinar Gullvåg, I should like to talk about the policy of the Progress Party. I can also reassure Steinar Gullvåg that the Progress Party was against the famous pension agreement, and we are still against it. But as Gullvåg himself was involved, the Progress Party received 16.3 p.m., and we record that there is a majority in the Stortningen for the pension settlement. He also mentioned the famous abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. The Progress Party, unlike the representative of Gullvåg and the Workers' Party, believes that the shortening is unsocial and crazy. That's why I'm very happy that we're now getting through to starting the degression of this unsocial abbreviation from 15 pst. to 10 pst. It will be exciting to see what Gullvåg and the Workers' Party are actually doing when the government will later propose this. When you sit and listen to the debate, you do some reflections. Several of us remember the red-green government talking about not talking Norway down. But when you hear the debate, you get the impression that there is almost a Ragnarok in Norway, and that everything goes wrong. The policy may be that the opposition should always point to what is wrong. I think it might have helped the debate a little bit if you had taken on board that we are now talking about a revision of a budget, where we are correcting and following with regard to which measures worked and which did not work. But the government keeps that promise. We went to the elections to reduce taxes and taxes. We have. The government has removed the inheritance fee. We have increased construction of the road and the railway. Today, we are reintroducing the toll rebate, which is very important for more people in Norway – especially in my home country, Eastfold, where the red-green government partly wanted to ban toll rebates. We're reintroducing this. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, took up the work policy and warned against it. The current labour policy is one of the main areas of government. We know that we have over 600,000 working-age Nordics who are out of work. Many of them are disabled. In a survey, 80,000 people with disabilities say that they want to work, and they believe that they can work only if they are better organized. Then I am very happy that the government has increased the number of places of action for people with disabilities, but not least I am pleased with the government now sending out at the hearing: that we want to create a more flexible working life where we ensure that the door to work is wider and wider, so that more people can get work and thus contribute to the capacity they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2623	In the case of a differentiated employer's fee, Stortinget has shown itself from its best side. The size has acted quickly, and has acted well, in a matter that has been – and to the extent – constantly evolving. So the size used the room for action that was there to get a good result, and that's what the Storting has done. It is interesting to record the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Workers' Party, which is made visible in the setting. I am very pleased that there is such a broad political consensus, which supports the government in the work that has been done, and further in the work to be done in this matter. That is why it is also interesting to register SVs and – in particular – the position of the centre party in the case. In any case, I record that there is a full split between the red-greens, where the working party is on one side and the SV and the centre part on the other. So there is disagreement both about the historical description of the case and about the possibilities that lie ahead. Who has done what and when in this case has been a topic both today and before. The working party seems to be most interesting to know what has happened from October last year until now. The centre party and SV are actually asking for exemption from the facts of the case and are trying to force them to sit in government and to sleep on guard. I think the State Council Helgesen had a very good post, both when it came to describing what the government has done in the matter, and not least the actual facts. What Helgesen could point out in his post is that this case started rolling already in 2012, and not least he pointed out what happened last August, in 2013, when the government was briefed on what was going to become the legislation. Nothing happened from the Red-Green government's side, and it's interesting to bring it along. Finally, I register that Martin Henriksen criticises this government for not having a course and would not go in any direction. Rigmor Aasrud, on the other hand, says that this government has a blue-blue direction. It might be interesting if the Workers' Party at last managed to decide what to criticize this government for – whether it is either blue-blue and has a blue-blue direction, or whether there is a government that has no direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2638	It's with a certain wonder I've heard the posts of the red-greens. It is with amazement that we must note that the Workers' Party refuses to respond to who will receive higher taxes with their policies. It shows a lack of a defined policy, and one should expect something else from the country's largest opposition party. It is with amazement that I hear the Workers' Party talk about the rules of leave as if they were static, as if they had never been adapted to the labour market before. And it's funny that the representative Dag Terje Andersen, whom I've come to know as a wise man on the labour and social committee, is not able to see that moderate changes in the work environment law are necessary in a situation where some people sign up from trade unions in order to agree to tour locally. Then you can add it together with their resistance to normized medical messages – a system that you want to avoid large-scale differences in the health care period, which can reduce sick leave – and their resistance to an attempt to get a new medical assessment of another doctor after six months of medical treatment, precisely because we know the consequences of getting sick for too long. This, then, comes at a time when we know that sick leave in Norway is high when compared with international numbers, and there was a report on this last night. But it tells us something about the red-green ones. They are system defenders even when in opposition. We've had a change of words where debate on new ideas leads to the three parties that have been in government for two periods, being most concerned about defending what they did when they were in government. They want to defend their systems, their systems. The fact is, they're holding big speeches with even bigger words. They make it sound like they have visions and views, but it's defenders they are. It's quite sympathetic, because it says something about how you view society. It says something about how to look at your own actions. The red-green parties look at what they did when they put in government, like a fasit, as something that should have two lines below. This means that the red-green contribution to this debate – in fiscal policy, in labour policy – has been reduced to a single major nothing. It's empty, it's hollow, and it's exposed to content. That's quite a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2651	It has been quite special to record representatives from the former red-green government parties in the debate today, and the attacks that have been made on the government, on the poor handling of the case of a differentiated employer’s fee – and as long as the red-green government proved to be as passive as it did when it was in charge last year. You cannot waive the responsibility for that, nor talk away from it. The representative Slagsvold Vedum from the Center Party said that the Center Party never accepted the changes. Well, why didn't you talk to the European Union? The European Commission published the draft amendments in good time, half a year before their adoption. It's unfortunate – and there's a lesson in it, as the councillor Helgesen said – that you didn't get involved as it was still possible to influence the design of the legislation. In the debate following the EU/EEA statement in May, the then municipal minister said that she was familiar with the sector exemptions for transport, but that she did not find it natural to inform the Storting about it, and that after dialogue with ESA, she felt that this would be done. This, in our opinion, is a far too defensive attitude. The previous government discussed with ESA, but not with the EU. There is therefore no point in holding any political meetings between the Red-Green Government and the European Commission on this issue. If it had been, it has not been documented. We are pleased that we have a new government with a completely different European policy. The current government is doing the job. It discusses with the EU, and it is the right arena to take care of Norway’s interests. In the case of centralisation, which several from the Central Party have been involved in, I have noticed that countermeasures were small when the Central Party was in government, for example. in the case of relocating State competence jobs. Here you can see the right hand side, the left hand side, the left hand side, the right hand side, and the right hand side. We are committed to pursuing a policy that provides growth and development across the country through instruments that ensure the competitiveness of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2664	The conflict in Syria, which started in 2006, has contributed to one of the largest humanitarian disasters in recent times. It is estimated that between 160,000 and 200,000 people have been killed. It is 6.5 million people who are internally displaced in Syria and 2.8 million people who are refugees in nearby areas. This is precisely why the government and the majority of the population have contributed, by accepting record Syrian refugees to Norway. We are the country in Europe that receives the most Syrian refugees, given the number – Sweden is the country that receives more, with 1,200 people, and they are almost twice as many as us – but also considering how many inhabitants we have in Norway. We have also contributed about 1 billion. kr in the 8 months the new government has been working. I therefore react very strongly to the production of individual opposition parties. Norway has never received 2000 Syrian flights and has been halved under the new government. It has never been decided to accept 2,000 Syrian refugees. There was something government parties came up only when they were on their way out of government offices. What we've done so far doesn't mean that we can't and should not do more for the people of Syria, who are in a very difficult situation, who are in a disaster. But it is not possible to present it this way – after sitting for eight years in a majority government and not lifting as much as a finger for the people of Syria – and standing on the pulpit of the Stortinge and being morally superior to everyone else. It's no use trying to make it like we're the other people, people who're equally concerned about, just as frustrated about, like, getting tired of the disaster in Syria, are more concerned with tax-free quotas than the people in Syria. I think it's a bit pathetic, it played some in the opposition has started around this. They should think about, they should get together and think about how this feels out there. This government – the majority of the population – has contributed more than anyone to the population of Syria. I think that parties like the Socialist Left Party, which is very high on the track, should go some rounds with themselves about why they didn't lift a finger from 2006 to 2013, when they put in a majority government, before they start making those kind of unsubstantiated accusations against others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2677	I didn't intend to contribute to prolonging this debate so much. After listening to the last three articles, that is the number before I change my mind – I just have to say that. The reason I asked for the floor was that I wanted to point out a gap that has arisen in the committee. In the event of an error, it is not recorded that the Workers' Party and the Centre Party should have supported the comments of SV and the Christian People's Party on page 112, under heading 5.9.1 on the driving industry, which reads: ‘The members of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party and the Socialist Left ask the Government to look at possible measures and instruments in the short term, including access to raw materials, in order to ensure the operational basis of the remaining shrimp industry in Norway. The member of the Committee of the Socialist Left calls for action from the government to ensure important industries in North Norway. This member believes it is of national importance to ensure the presence and economy of the shrimp industry in the northern regions. Annual shrimp fishing in the Barents Sea is less than 1/3 of the recommended TAC of 60000 tonnes. [[Total Allowable Catch]] The combined fleet, which previously formed the backbone of the Norwegian shrimp fisheries, is largely structured on cod/whitefish and the interest in fishing shrimps among the Norwegian fleet is low. This poses problems in securing enough raw materials for parts of industry and may hinder growth and new development in industry. This applies in particular to one of the two remaining industrial actors, which describes the situation as precarious. Immediate measures are needed to improve the situation of the entire recreational industry both at sea and on land.’ The Labour Party and the Center Party support this, and I ask that it be recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2691	I have now been listening to one by one with a Nordic dialect, which has been up here and boasted without hindrance by the government's work with a differentiated employer's fee. I even heard the representative Margunn Ebbesen say that business was so optimistic about the situation. I have to say that I am pleased that there will now not be meetings at Stortinget for a while, and I recommend up to several representatives to visit the companies concerned and get their reality calibrated a little. Then there are several who have taken the Workers' Party's position on income too much support for the government's work and proposals. When the Workers' Party is voting today with the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, it's precisely because we've got these parties involved in several important steps. I will again praise those parties for having walked constructively into this. It deserves industry, which is quite hard hit by this – not least that the government now has to take new rounds in Brussels to use the EEA legal space, to which many have pointed. Most clearly, the NHO has pointed it out, and it is an organisation that at least government parties should listen to. I will refer you a little bit from the NHO press release earlier, when this matter exploded in March: ‘The NHO considers that the EU guidelines on regional aid do not require the exemption of the transport sector from the differentiated employer’s fee scheme. The content of the EU regional aid rules has been investigated by the NHO and the Transport Associations (NGOs) making the restriction on transport necessary. The conclusion is that it is not necessary.» So the NHO goes on to say, ‘The NHO also indicates that until 24 February 2014, the Norwegian authorities were of the same opinion, as expressed, inter alia, in the Minister of Finance’s reply to written questions in the Stortinget.’ So now that representatives of the Nordic business community have gone out and said that they look a little bit brighter on the situation, it's precisely with the background of the decisions taken here in this room today, and not least the message that goes to the government to ensure quality figures and effects, so that we actually know what kind of measures are taking the different businesses. Once again, we're definitely not in the goal, and I actually think that we should now focus on them in the interests of the companies concerned, and try to make this situation as good as possible. Good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2719	Yesterday, NTB reported that Jordan is closing its borders for Syrian refugees. Poor Lebanon, which is as large as my homeland, Hedmark, and has four million people, has received over one million flights. In Iraq, which accepts many, there is war and crisis – we watch it on television every day. Turkey has accepted many. It is the situation in these neighbourhoods that is now so critical, and is fully comparable to the situation in neighbouring countries around Kosovo, when the Stortinget – against the votes of the Progress Party only – took 6 000. SV has made proposals, which were voted down a few weeks ago, to accept up to 5000. It's not a high number either. SV promoted, when we put in government, proposals to accept far more than this government will accept. This government has had to be forced by the bulk of the population to receive a few more. The situation is escalating every day. This is what is serious about this matter. The refugee aid asks us to receive more. Amnesty has been out in the square today, and the Grandfather took notice that we have to accept more. The UN says we have to accept more. It is an acute situation, which escalates from day to day and from hour to hour – and then representatives from the Progress Party are concerned about what SV did in government several years ago. It is not the seriousness that this case deserves. This is happening now. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, we can accept more, and we can help more in the neighbourhoods. The last time I was up here, I quoted the then Wraith representative Inge Wraith from the Right, who said that during the Kosovo war there was only one party who had a conscience to vote no when the situation was so acute. Unfortunately, today it seems that there is a majority in the Chamber that has it. But I would hope that the president could now use his influence to convey the message that was conveyed out on the Lion Hill a few hours ago, where Amnesty told what is happening in practice in a world where there is war and crisis, while we are sitting here in the world's richest country and are going to adopt a budget and thus choose to use the space for action we have, to grant people cheaper tax-free quotas. I'm ashamed!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2732	The representative Berg-Hansen claims that we do not see the seriousness and that we say that it is «optimism». In my post I made it clear that there was a ‘great optimism’ and there is a great difference between ‘grown optimism’ and ‘optimism’. But if the emerging optimism is to flourish, it is important that we politicians lay the foundation for it to flourish – and not black paint more than what has been done, and create a crisis mood in North Norway. The Right-Fremskrit Party government took the gloves. That glove did not take the red-green government when they sat with the power and the ability to do anything. It would have been great if they had done that, so we might have avoided the crisis atmosphere that the matter was really marked in March. Now it's done a lot of good work by the government. The government has close dialogue with ESA and with the EU, and it will continue to do so, and I am sure that all the stones will be turned around in order to find a good solution to this matter in the future. I take seriously that we have a rich business life in Northern and North Norway. That business has the potential for growth, and we are the ones who are going to give them the opportunity. We do that by believing in them and showing them that we take them seriously. I have talked to many in the business world in North Norway – and not just the big players, but many of the small players, whom we have now saved with the contact that the government has had with the EU. We saved them. They get their good solutions in the compensatory measures presented by the government in this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2741	The representative Kent Gudmundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2745	The representative Henriksen called for the direction of this government in the Northern Region policy. The direction is that we are betting, the direction is that we are investing in the north, in the north, in the north, in the part of the country. I would like to remind the House that this government has already spent well over 1 billion. kr extra for motorway projects in the north – from Helgeland south of the district to Kirkenes in the north-east. In addition, 260 million have been used. kr more on the county roads. Further increases to next year are reported. That's $150 million. kr in business activity above the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget for Innovation Norway, we have opened up more farming activity, the petroleum pressure is high, and in addition we have given green light for mineral exploration. So this government is willing to make use of the district – not protect it. We are going from 'word area policy' to 'northern area policy'!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2752	The representative of SV Andersen was concerned with the difficult situation that neighbouring countries are also in, and that is precisely why we have contributed so significantly. When such a disaster occurs, it is important to be able to concentrate resources to help as many people as possible. The cost of the 1000 refugees accepted in Norway is estimated to be around 155 million. kr annually. For the same amount, 26 000 people could be helped in the neighborhoods. In other words, for the same resource use that can help 1,000 people here, 26 times more people could be helped in the neighbourhoods. But we haven't said it should be either – or. We're actually doing both: we're receiving a significant number of Syrian refugees, and we're providing significant financial assistance for humanitarian purposes in Syria and the neighbourhoods. I think it's perfectly legitimate to have different opinions and opinions about the number of Syrian refugees and everything else – that's not what I have problems with. What I don't find in, under any circumstances, is getting my human vision drawn into doubt by politicians who didn't do any of the world's things when they had occasion themselves. The representative, Andersen, was concerned that you have to take into account that the matter is escalating and things are developing rapidly. That is right: the conflict in Syria has evolved from 2006 until the disaster it is today, and then both the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre have had the opportunity to contribute and do something more. They just let me do it. It's a choice they've made, it's a choice they have to stand for. But they cannot then come and moralize over other people and present it as if we are more concerned with tax-free quotas than with people who suffer. That's an unworthy way to debate. So when Andersen's representative says she's ashamed, I get it. She has good reason for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2759	The representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen is the case rapporteur on the differentiated employer's fee and therefore gets 3 minutes – if that's the theme?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2762	That's definitely it, President! I was probably a little quick to wish good summer instead, because the representative Margunn Ebbesen made me take the floor again. When she says that more people are being rescued by that ransom scheme – yes, who is it? That's exactly what we need to know about. The government, for example, says: that almost the entire transport industry is ‘saved’ – if I am going to use that word – by it. No, I'm saying now, it won't be, because there's the amount of free money lower. We need to know about this. Another example, which has not been mentioned at all, is maritime transport. Indeed, the net pay scheme has been pointed to. Yeah, but who hits it? We know that a lot of the shipping companies have already reached the ceiling of the net pay scheme. If that ceiling is not raised, yes, they will not benefit from the net pay scheme – even if more money is put in. But we also don't know who it hits, and how it hits. So yes, the working party takes the companies, the business community, seriously, and that's exactly why it's been so important for us to have more time to look at compensatory measures. But the most important thing is to use the space of action that actually exists in Brussels, and there I look forward to the government coming back here as soon as possible. Then it is good that Brussels does not take a holiday yet, and that will be another month's work. And we're not going to bother the state councils here for a while, so here it's just getting started – and I realized that the European Minister is already. It may be a good idea to bring more people with you on that job. Then I want a good summer – both for us and for this business, which now has 14 days to implement a very demanding regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2777	The first thing the red-green government did when it took over in 2005 was to increase the number of quota refugees. It was a battle cause during the election campaign in 2005. There was SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party on the side that would increase the number of quota refugees, and the Progress Party strongly argued against. I want to quote the Ibsen of the representative Keshvari: Out there, under the shining vault, between men it is called: «Man, be yourself!» In here with us between the trolls it is called: « Troll, be yourself – enough!» Once again, there is a crisis in Syria that has triggered more than 6 million refugees, and 2.5 million of those refugees are fleeing Syria. Jordan has accepted hundreds of thousands, and Lebanon has accepted hundreds of thousands. Now they close after each limit, because they can't accept any more. This government believes that we cannot accept any more now. We can't afford it. I don't know where Keshvar is picking up his arguments. There was no civil war in Syria in 2006, but it was last year, and already then the refugee disaster was the largest in the world. At that time, the Government proposed to increase the number of quota refugees in order to receive more acids. It was the Progress Party who opposed it. It was the Progress Party that made sure that if one were to receive 1,000 refugees from Syria, 500 other refugees, who were in distress elsewhere in the world, had to stay where they were, and not be allowed to be in Norway. A criticism of the political point of view and an indication of the human consequences of the policies of the Progress Party will only allow representatives of the Progress Party to live with come from this pulpit, without standing here and playing insults. It is quite a strange notion that we have witnessed today, where one party after another has pushed guidelines from 2010 and subversive arguments about the lack of capacity in the municipalities ahead, to cover the fact that they are accepting refugees, because they have opted for a more stringent immigration, asylum and refugee policy. This is the policy of the Progress Party – it is that simple. The representative Keshvari was offended that Karin Andersen suggested that the Progress Party was more concerned with taxi-free and boat engines than with refugees. How could Karin Andersen end up in that error? I wonder. It may have happened that the only progress party has been talking about the whole debate today, and the only progress party has been talking about in all the newspaper essays on the revised national budget, is what a political shift it is that the richest elite in Norway get cheaper 150 horsepower boat engines, and that the rest get an extra bottle of wine.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2795	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2798	It is the situation in the neighbourhoods, which is accepting many refugees, which is the acute reason why the UN and its organisations are now asking us to accept more. That's now we're dealing with a revised national budget, where we could make it possible. It is now, as it was during the Kosovo war, that when the situation in the neighbourhoods becomes so difficult, there is not a choice between helping here or there, but we must do both, as both former Wraith representative Inge Wraith and former Wraith representative Per-Kristian Foss so excellently said in the debate at that time. Because it's urgent now, and it gets worse for every day that goes. I think it is unworthy that we are unable to make such a decision now, and that we are not able to meet the most precarious humanitarian needs that international organisations ask of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2807	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2810	First to the last one that was said from here, we're doing both. We both accept a significant number of refugees and are at the top of Europe, and we contribute through financial assistance to humanitarian programmes in Syria and neighbouring countries. I am not offended by the policies of the Progress Party. I'm not at all. That's a good reason why we have to look at what we have the capacity to accept. What I'm responding to is the moralization that some people have driven. What I'm responding to is assigning people different attitudes and values than they have. If the SV representative has not received anything from this debate today other than tax-free allowances, he should perhaps have followed with him a little better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2819	I'm not going to characterize any other parties or other parties' speakers. I just want to say something that there has been a broad majority in this process, starting with the treatment of this budget before Christmas, until the budget for the last year and the current appropriations given by the government to Syria, Sudan and other disaster areas. There is a considerable will in all parties to set up, both in the neighbourhoods and at home. It's only a week since the Stortinget commissioned the government to look at how we can continue to improve the situation of the Syrian refugees, both in the neighbourhoods and at home. I have confidence that the government will follow it up, and I am absolutely sure that the majority here in the Chamber will follow it up as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2826	Several have not asked to speak on the matter. 31 and 32.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2841	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2855	The Committee is busy improving maritime safety and looks forward to a matter from the government in this respect during 2014. There is a joint committee which points out that this matter must be dealt with in conjunction with the Stortingen debate and decision at the time of the Innst. 242 L for 2013–2014. When the replacement scheme is in the case, it is only to explain why we are resuming the case. As I said, there is a joint committee which makes the following proposals: ‘The Government requests a case to be submitted by the Government during 2014 for improved safety at sea, including an assessment of mandatory use of flotation equipment and how this can be implemented.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2867	There is a great deal of agreement that we should not have a debate on this, but the vote refers to the so-called dividend system, and that should be the case. That a party had one representative too much in the hall, had no impact on the result. The crucial thing is that the agreement that was made on 23 October did not take into account the situation that then arose and gave a wrong majority in the Storting, compared to what it was supposed to be – so that you are aware of it. Now that we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution, it is much because of what we tried to use the debate to which it was referred, namely, to clarify the proposal that was there at the time, to consider the directive on lifejackets, or whether there was a directive on lifejackets. Now we've got that clarification, so we're voting in favour of the proposal, so there's an overall committee that's behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2874	Quite briefly, the Storting really does not know about the dividend scheme, but we note that during the debate last Friday enough, there was a basis for believing that the result of this vote would be different from what became the reality. Once we have dealt with this matter urgently now, I recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2879	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2885	Councillor Monica Mæland will transfer nine kilos. propositions [[see Unit]] The size is ready to vote on the matters on today's map. Case No. 1–30 is the vote on earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2894	In the course of the debate, a total of 34 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left proposals No. 2-6, by Mrs Marthinsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 7-11, by Marianne Marthinsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 12-20, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, proposals Nos. 21-29 on behalf of Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 30, by Mrs Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, proposal No. 31, by Terje Breivik on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 32, from Nils Aage Igstad on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 33 and 34, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens Proposals Nos. 30–34 have been made available to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2927	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, by the Greens: ‘The Government is asked to establish an investment grant of 40 per cent for solar photovoltaic installations through Enova and to increase the current investment grant for solar collectors from 20 to 40 per cent.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2941	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Green Party, which reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce VAT exemptions for electric bicycles.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e2957	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21, 24 and 29, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The State budget 2014 is amended as follows: 1H.M. The King and H.M.The Queen51 Special Projects of the Royal Hoff, allocated by 400 000 from 98 300000 to 98 70000021State Council1Operating expenditure, increased by 7 400 000 from €158 700 00041The operating expenditure, increased by 6 000 000 from €854 500 000 to €860 500 00070Addition to the batches, increased by 3 000 000 from €16 000 000 to NOK16 00044The control committee of the intelligence, surveillance and security service1Driving expenditure, [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDITURE, EXPENDIENCE OF DUTITURE OF DUTIES OF DUSTIQUE, DUTIQUE, DUTIQUEDNESS OF DUTICAN, DUTICAN, DUSTICAN, DUTIQUED OF DUSTICAND OF DUSTICAND AND DUSTINESS OFFIVENESS OFFIVEING OFFAMIONS OF 10 8 0 8 0 8 0 8 0 8 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 000 000 000 855000, increased by 500000 from €12 505000 to €13 050022Regulation premium for KLP and municipal pension funds, increased by 20 500 000 from €33 6 000 to €53 6 7 30 000from €10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 in the field of food50Knowledge development, postage 2 000 000budget spent, operation expenditure increased by 2 500 000budget from NOK 1 205 073 000budget from NOK 1 207 573 000budget of the Member State for agricultural management60Additions to veterinary coverage, increased by 2 000budget from NOK 132 449 000budget to NOK 134 449 000budget, natural damage — substitutes71Natural damage, damages, estimates, increased by 31 000budget from NOK 185 700 000budget to NOK 21 700 000budget for implementation of the agricultural agreement etc.71Additions to compensations from NOK 6 000budgets from NOK 6 2 000budgets from NOK 2 000budget, from NOK 7 000budget from NOK 760 000budget from NOK 7 000budget from NOK 6 2 000budget from NOK 6 2 000budget from EUR, from NOK 2 000budget from NOK 30 000 from EUR from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from NOK 30 to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from NOK 10 to EUR from EUR from NOK 10 to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] in urban areas, may be transferred, increased by 65 000 000 to 300 000 from 945 300 000 to NOK 1 010 300 00062 Reward scheme Administration plans for areas protected by the law of the land, granted by 1 000 00076 Aids for national and international environmental measures, may be transferred, reduced by 3 000 000 from 33 050 000 to 30 050 00081 Urban development, local environmental protection and universal design may be transferred, increased by 6 000 000 from NOK 8 957 000 to NOK 2 33 000 to NOK 13 4 33 0001407Environmental expenditure, granted by 10 000 0001410Environmental protection research and monitoring73Infrastructure measures for the environmental institutes, increased by 4 000 000 000 from EUR 9 4 4 4 4 4 33 000 from EUR to NOK 13 4 0 33 000 from the Directorate of the State of the Environment, reduced by 2 500 000 from NOK 199 200 000 to NOK 12 000 per year; in inland debt,expenditureambudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbouttbouttbouttbouttbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetb 29tbouttbouttbudgetb 29tbudgetb 29tb 29tbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetb 29tbudgetb 29tbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetb 29tbudgetbudgey [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] 1760, item 45, increased by 59 140 000 from NOK 1 017 568 000 to NOK 1 076 708 00044 Totally financed investments, nationally financed, can be transferred, reduced by 11 000 000 from NOK 38 302 000 to NOK 27 302 00045 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, can be used under cover. 1761, entry 45, may be transferred, reduced by 6 000 000from NOK 26 000from NOK 26 50 000from NOK 8 500 000from NOK 8 908 100000from NOK 6 168 10 00048from the co-financed part may be transferred, reduced by 6 000 from NOK 26 500000 from NOK 20 000from NOK 82 25 000from NOK 82 056 00045 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by 1 477 000 000 from NOK 96 692 000 to NOK 1 028 239 000 from NOK 1 047 9 0001792Norwegian forces from NOK 152 902 000 to NOK 265 00 0001790The coast guard may be spent. [[NY]] in work and education, reduced by7 500 000 from NOK 15 000 to NOK 15 000 000 from NOK 147 200 000 from NOK 8 10 000 from NOK 8 10 000 from NOK 79 000 000 to NOK 79 000 000from from the budget of EUR 8 35 000 from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources from the resources of the resources from the resources from the resources of the resources from the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of the resources of [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to postpone the reorganisation process and the transfer of responsibilities from the customs and levy rate to the tax rate, and to return to the Stortinget with a better anchored proposal for reorganisation involving employees’ organisations.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the 2015 government to introduce a base gas levy for heating in order to ensure that the phasing out of fossil fuel oil is not replaced by fossil gas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e12604	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22, 23, 25, 26 and 28, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to reinstate the Directorate for Administration and ICT its Department for the Environment of Public Procurement.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asked to come back to the Storting with proposals to strengthen its competence in environmental matters in public procurement.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for activity tax in the financial industry in line with the report of the State budget in 2014.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to the Stortinget for the regulation of the sale of nicotine-containing e-cigarettes in Norway.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget in 2015 to present a stepping-up plan for fossil fuel oil charges up to the Swedish level, including a compensation scheme for agriculture.’ The Greens support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e12643	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the State budget in 2015 with proposals for improvements to the regulation on country-by-country reporting ensuring the necessary transparency, including proposals to ensure a stronger link between country-by-country reporting and annual accounts.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e12661	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 20, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The State budget 2014 is amended as follows: 1H.M. The King and H.M.The Queen51 Special Projects of the Royal Hoff, allocated by 400 000 from 98 300000 to 98 70000021The State Council1The operating expenditure is increased by 7 400 000from 151 300 000 to 158 700 00041The operating expenditure is increased by 6 000 000 from 854 500 000 to € 860 500 00070Addition to the batches, increased by 3 000 000 from NOK 164 000 to NOK 167 00044The control committee of the intelligence, surveillance and security service1Driving expenditure, channel expenditure, can be increased by 1 900 000 from NOK 10 400 000 to NOK 10 400 000 to NOK 3 300 0001Highlighting expenditure, increased by 1 700 000 from kr 93 158 000 to NOK 94 858 000100Driving expenditure, channel expenditure can be channeled from 630 000 to NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 to NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 to NOK 1 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 to NOK 1 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 1 700 to EUR from NOK 10 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR 1 700 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] 572 item 64, reduced by 11 900 000 from NOK 2 157 000 to NOK 2 145 100 000572Room grants to county councils64Sex grant, can be used under Chapter. 571 Item 64, increased by20000000DanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanSanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDan [[NY]] 858 item 1, reduced by 500 000from NOK 36 285 000from NOK 187 000from NOK 35 785 000842Family protection1Operating expenditure, may be used under item 70, increased by 6 900 000 from NOK 224 523 000 from NOK 231 823 000844Cash aid70Bidages, estimates, from NOK 14 000 000 from NOK 1 41 4 14 000 000 to NOK 1 40 000 845 000 from NOK 50, disbursed by $ 600 000 from NOK 18 159 000 from NOK 17 559 000 from NOK 15 10 000 from NOK 12 319 000 to NOK 12 19 000 846Research and experimental activities, grants etc. Special operating costs, can be spent under item 50, disbursed by taps of NOK 18 159 000 from DKK to NOK 17 559 000 from NOK 1 000 from NOK [[NY]] [[NY]] 855000from €350000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €13005 000from €13005 000from €220,000from €220,000from €300,000from €300,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €300,000from €300,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to € worth from €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 from €30 from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from €30 from €30 from € from € from € from €30 to € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from €from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from in the field of food50Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, the Veterinary Institute, increased by 21 340 000from €87 998 000 to € 109 338 0001115Food monitoring1Operating expenditure, increased by16 500 000 from €1 205 073 000 to €1221 573 0001148Natural damage – substitutes71Natural damage, damages, estimated expenditure, increased by 31 000 000 from kr 185 700 000 to kr 216 700 0001150For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc., supplements to claims, increased by 15 000 000 000 from kr 72 000 000 to kr 87 000 0001300 000. [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] in urban areas, 400 000 may be transferred, increased by 65000000 000 from €940000 from €940000 to €1010 300000000 from the railway station23Operation and maintenance, can be used under heading 30, increased by 4 000 000 from kr 6 056 900 000 to kr 6 060 900 00030Investments in the line can be transferred under item 23, reduced by 5 800 000 from kr 8 659 500 000 to kr 8 653 700 000 to kr 8 653 0001351Personial transport by train70Buy of passenger transport by train, can be transferred, increased by 25 000 from kr 3 047 000 000 to kr 3 072 000 0001360Coastal energy30New installations and major maintenance, can be transferred, increased by 49 400 000 from kr from kr 479 8 000 to kr guessed from kr 4 000 from kr from kr from kr from kr 3 000 to kr from kr from kr from kr 1 000 to kr from kr from kr 3 400 000 [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] in inland debt, the estimate is transferred to 86218000budget, increased by 59 500 000budgets from 10 725 600000budgets from 4 785 100 0001700budgets from 3 500 000budgets, reduced by 3 500 000budgets from 371 587 000budgets and developments, may be transferred, increased by 3 000budgets from 31 17 000budgets to 34 17 000budgets, defence projects and new plants47news and new plants, can be transferred, increased by 91 400 000budgets from 1 588 8 11 000budgets, and grants to enterprises under the Ministry of Defence1 7 7 7 000budgets. 1760, item 45, increased by 59 140 000 from NOK 1 017 568 000 to NOK 1 076 708 00044 Totally financed investments, nationally financed, can be transferred, reduced by 11 000 000 from NOK 38 302 000 to NOK 27 302 00045 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, can be used under cover. [[NY]] 1761, entry 45, to be reduced by 1 730 000 to be spent from 300000 to 300000 from NOK 7 908 100000 to NOK 6 168 100 00048, to be transferred, to be reduced by 6 000 000 from NOK 26 500 000 to NOK 20 500 0001761New combat aircraft with a base solution1Operating costs, to be reduced by 1 201 000 from NOK 83 25 000 to NOK 152 902 000 to NOK 265 00 0001790, to be spent by the coastguard can be increased by 1 477 000 000 from DKK 966 182 000 to NOK 1 028 239 000 to NOK 1 0 047 92 0001792Norwegian forces in the rest of the world1 [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] in the course of work and education, reduced by 7 500 000wages/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking to increase the cap. 1420 Directorate-General for the Environment, heading 73 Preventive and anti-conflict measures in wild game management, with 10 million. crowns in connection with the re-balancing of the State budget 2014. The funds shall be made available to the predators, who may dispose of them for increased compensation of killings, or other measures in line with their needs.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e22262	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to instruct the Police Directorate to redispatch 2.5 million. in 2014, by internal efficiency improvement. The efficiency measures shall apply in POD’s own organisation and shall not be implemented at police district level. The funds shall be redispatched to strengthen police ICT systems in order to ensure rapid progress in the implementation of new criminal law.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e22280	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 15 and 17-19, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start work as soon as possible to quickly put audio and video recording in the courts. The pilot project must identify investment needs. Based on previous thorough preparatory work by the Court of Justice, it is expected that the pre-project can be carried out without an increased budgetary framework.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to define blind and partially syndicated people as students with difficulty in reading and writing, so that they are also given the right to a PC and other device from Nav Auxiliaries.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to continue to work on regulatory fastening in line with the roll-call decisions in the treatment of Prop. 55 L on new tobacco damage laws.’ [[2012-2013]] Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to maintain the ‘Mat along national tourist roads’ project for a further two years. The government is asking to set aside $1 million. crowns in the new age of 2014 for the continuation of the project as from 1 July 2014.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to set up a pilot project with animal police in Oslo. The government is asking for 2 million. to this effect in 2014.’» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e22319	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to reverse the change made to the Permitting Code. That amendment shall take effect on 1 July 2014.’» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e22338	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget 2014 is amended as follows: 1H.M. The King and H.M.The Queen51 Special Projects of the Royal Hoff, allocated by 400 000 from 98 300000 to 98 70000021The State Council1The operating expenditure is increased by 7 400 000from 151 300 000 to 158 700 00041The operating expenditure is increased by 6 000 000 from 854 500 000 to € 860 500 00070Addition to the batches, increased by 3 000 000 from NOK 164 000 to NOK 167 00044The control committee of the intelligence, surveillance and security service1Driving expenditure, channel expenditure, can be increased by 1 900 000 from NOK 10 400 000 to NOK 10 400 000 to NOK 3 300 0001Highlighting expenditure, increased by 1 700 000 from kr 93 158 000 to NOK 94 858 000100Driving expenditure, channel expenditure can be channeled from 630 000 to NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 to NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 to NOK 1 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 to NOK 1 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 1 700 to EUR from NOK 10 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR 1 700 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] 858 item 1, reduced by 500 000from NOK 36 28 000 from NOK 8 000 from NOK 8 000 from NOK 8 000 from NOK 8 8 000 from NOK 8 000 from NOK 70 from NOK 6 900 000 from NOK 9 24 5 23 000 from NOK 2 31 4 23 000 from NOK 8 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 10 000 from NOK 15 10 000 from NOK 12 3 19 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 1 41 000 from NOK 21 special operating costs, can be spent under item 50, reduced by NOK 600 000 from DKK 18 159 000 to NOK 17 559 000 from NOK 1 000 from NOK 12 3 19 000 from NOK 8 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 12 9 19 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 0 30 000 from NOK 30 30 30 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 8 30 000 from NOK 8 30 30 000 from NOK 30 30 30 000 from NOK 30 30 30 30 000 from NOK 30 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 30 000 from NOK from NOK 30 30 000 from NOK 855000from €350000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €13005 000from €13005 000from €220,000from €220,000from €300,000from €300,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €300,000from €300,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €130,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €290,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to € worth from €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €30 from €30 from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from €30 from €30 from € from € from € from €30 to € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from €from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from in the field of food50Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, the Veterinary Institute, is increased by 21 340 000 from SEK 87 998 000 to NOK 109 338 0001115Food monitoring1Operating expenditure, increased by 2 500 000 from DKK 1 205 073 000 to NOK 1 207 573 0001148Natural damage - substitutes71Natural damage, damages, estimated expenditure, increased by 31 000 000 from DKK 185 700 000 to NOK 2216 700 0001150For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc., payments for compensation, increased by 15 000 000 000 from kr 72 000 to kr 87 000 00013002300 for the Transport Department of Justice and Home Affairs1Drift expenditure, reduced by 760 000 from kr 172 908 000 to kr 171 148 000 from kr 72 000 to kr 72 000 kr. [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] in urban areas, may be transferred, increased by 65 000 000 000 from EUR 9000000 from EUR 30 000 to EUR 30 000 from EUR 10 000 to EUR 9 000 to EUR 13 000 from EUR 10 000 to EUR 13 000 from EUR 10 000 to EUR 10 000 from EUR 10 000 to EUR 10 000 from EUR 6 060 900 000 from EUR 6 060 900 000 from EUR 10 000 to EUR 10 000 from EUR 10 000 to EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 10 000 from EUR 10 000 to EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR to EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 30 to EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR to EUR from EUR 30 000 from EUR from EUR 30 to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR to EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 to EUR to EUR from EUR to EUR to EUR to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 to EUR from EUR from EUR to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR EUR from EUR EUR EUR from EUR from EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from [[NY]] in inland debt,expenditureambudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbouttbouttbouttbouttbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetb 29tbouttbouttbudgetb 29tbudgetb 29tb 29tbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetb 29tbudgetb 29tbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetbudgetb 29tbudgetbudgey [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] 1760, item 45, increased by 59 140 000 from NOK 1 017 568 000 to NOK 1 076 708 00044 Totally financed investments, nationally financed, can be transferred, reduced by 11 000 000 from NOK 38 302 000 to NOK 27 302 00045 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, can be used under cover. 1761, entry 45, may be transferred, reduced by 6 000 000 from NOK 26 000 from NOK 26 50 000 from NOK 8 50 000 from NOK 8 90 8 000 from NOK 6 168 10 00048, co-financed from that part may be transferred, increased by 6 000 000 from NOK 26 500000 to NOK 20 50 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 83 25 000 to NOK 152 902 000 from NOK 152 902 000 to NOK 26 5 00017 000 from that part of the budget may be transferred, increased by NOK 1 477 000 from NOK 9 36 000 from NOK 682 000 to NOK 1 028 239 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 152 90 000 to NOK 265 00 000 to NOK 1790 000 from that part of the budget may be spent; [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] in the course of work and education, reduced by 7 500 000wages/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets/budgets [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e32017	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with instructions for redeployment within the overall aid framework, in order to strengthen the overall effort towards Syria by 1 billion. crowns in 2014.’;» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e32035	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-11, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the state earmarked resources for continuing training for teachers be used in accordance with adopted plans for continuing training.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the prompt start of work on the next life-cycle survey.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the purchase of allowances in order to allow Norway to meet its commitments under the Kyoto II agreement by 10 percentage points to 40 pst. of 1990 levels by 2020.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e32063	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a review of how to finance the grant of $50,000 to new apprenticeships.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e32079	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the continuation of the current CO2 compensation scheme for industry for the 2020 contract period.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the economic framework conditions for the mandatory wind power in Norway, including the depreciation code, with a view to balancing the differences in competitive conditions between Norway and Sweden. The government is asked to report on this in an appropriate manner and to propose the necessary changes to the 2015 government budget. ‘... The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e32105	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size agrees that in 2014 Husbanken can offer loans for 25 billion. krones. Loans will be disbursed in 2014 and later.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e32123	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for an increase in the rate at which day-to-day services are set up in the 2015 government budget.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e32141	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the right, from the forepart, from the Christian people, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size empowers the Ministry of Transport to adjust the tariff and discount system for selected toll projects so that new discount rates resulting from the adaptation text of the Eurovignette Directive do not unduly affect large users. [[(see section 4.4). Regulation of 14 June 2013 No. Article 614(4)]] This mandate includes: Rv 23 Oslofjordnungn, E6 i Østfold and E18 i Agder. The adjustments to the tariff and discount systems shall be made in dialogue with local authorities and shall entail the neutralisation of proceeds for the latter two projects.’;» The Workers' Party has announced its support for the proposal and the Centre supports the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e32159	Alternatively, between proposal No. 31, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and proposal No. 30, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 31 reads: ‘The government asks for guidance on the withdrawal of transfer refugees, set out on 16.06.2010, in the light of experience gained from the withdrawal of refugees from Syria in the spring of 2014.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to meet the request of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to increase the proportion of transfer refugees from Syria with special medical needs in addition to the criteria given so far by the Norwegian Government.’ The Green Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e42410	An alternative is to vote on the Committee's position on A I Cape. 5521 Item 70 Value added tax and proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The State budget 2014 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCroner5521More value added tax70More value added tax, increased by 8 000 000 from NOK 250 953 000 to NOK 250 961 000 » The Greens have announced their support for the proposal by the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left. The roll-call boards showed that 53 votes had been cast in favour of the proposal by the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left and 48 votes in favour of the Committee's position on the A I Cape. 5521 Item 70 Value added tax. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.41.48]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e42475	President! I voted wrong. I voted in favour – I had to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e42480	The President proposes that it be re-voted. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e42491	The Committee shall then be consulted on the position of the Committee on the remaining chapters under A I, the rest of A – II – XXX – and B. Now, when we're going to vote over this, the party groups are set to refrain from following up their primary positions, so that we let go of a split and partly complicated voting. It is under the clear premise that this will not be used against them on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e42509	A total of 25 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 2-23, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, proposal No. 24, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 25, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to come back to the Storting with a proposal for compensatory measures in connection with the change in the differentiated employer charge, which effectively and fully compensates the enterprises and regions concerned. The file must be submitted as soon as possible in the autumn of 2014.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e42540	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-23 and 25, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to notify changes to the DA scheme that fully include the transport sector in the scheme as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The size of the scheme requires the government to notify changes to the scheme that include major parts of the energy sector in the scheme.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make ongoing assessments of the possibility to notify further changes to the DA scheme by including all or part of the excluded sectors in the scheme’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests that the deadline for implementation be set for at least 1 January 2015 for enterprises adversely affected by changes to the DA scheme and mixed-activity enterprises.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for compensatory measures in the context of amendments to the DA scheme for 2015 and beyond in the context of the State budget 2015. In this respect, the Storting asks the Government to calculate the real effects of the various compensatory measures.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make estimates of the regional economic impact of the changes in the DA scheme, relating to employment and the location/relocation of jobs and enterprises in different industries. The size further requests that these effects be included in the total amount to be compensated for by each region and that compensation for industries indirectly affected by the changes to the DA scheme be considered in this context.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide estimates of increased administrative costs for the enterprises as a result of changes to the DA scheme in the State budget 2015 and to include these costs in the total amount to be compensated.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for compensatory measures in the context of the 2015 State Budget, which means that the negative effects of the change in the DA scheme on enterprises, municipalities and regions are fully compensated for by the krona of the regions concerned.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the annual budgetary procedures, to provide estimates and assessments of the intended effect of the compensatory measures in place and, if necessary, to propose additional compensatory measures to provide for actual compensation for crowns for the impact of the change in the DA scheme.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose adjustments to the structure of charges, for example by reducing airport charges, in the context of the 2015 State budget, in the context of the State budget.’; Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks to purchase social discounts on the express buses as compensatory measures for the effect of the change in the DA scheme.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to provide a more precise calculation of the free-of-charge scheme than that provided for in Prop. 118 S [[2013-2014]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a sector clarification in the DA system for cableway, cableway and ski lifts, and to explore the possibility of introducing a threshold for the proportion of travel-life operations involving transport.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to fully compensate the counties for the increased costs of purchasing transport services related to the change in the DA scheme.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to fully compensate the counties for the increased costs associated with the operation of county roads in the context of the change in the DA scheme.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government requests exceptional measures to be taken by the government to strengthen security of electricity supply in North Norway.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adjust the income framework for the network companies concerned in order to compensate for the effect of an increase in the employer’s tax for the period from 1 July 2014 to 1. in July 2016.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking that suppliers of exempted sectors that otherwise fall under the differentiated employer’s fee scheme should be exempted from the obligation to calculate the increased rate until 1 January 2015.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the network lease balancing mechanism and, as a minimum, to reverse the cuts made by the government of Solberg in the State budget in 2014.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to re-calculate the amount of the increased costs associated with the purchase of transport services by county authorities in 2014 and, where appropriate, to return to the Storting in connection with the re-balancing of the State budget in 2014. The majority asks the government to consider whether the grants should be earmarked.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that financial undertakings in the municipalities concerned are compensated for the loss of a differentiated employer's fee by means of a competence development scheme.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government asks the government to strengthen access to risk capital in regions adversely affected by the changes in differentiated employer's tax.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The size of the government, having regard to the EU’s binding objectives of increasing renewable energy production with specific objectives for each country, by which Norway is also obliged to notify a renewable energy DA scheme, including in full, by means of the renewable directive in the EEA.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e42670	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy requests that the system of infrastructure measures for North Norway also apply to Namdal in the Nord-Trøndelag, as well as other areas of the country where the establishments, municipalities and counties concerned consider this to be appropriate as compensatory measures for the conversion of the DA scheme submitted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e43449	The President assumes that the Central Party wants to vote against. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-20.ana.ud699e43785	Then we are at the end of the last meeting of this session, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for a great year. Many of you were new, actually a record number – I think that at least since the days of the war there has not been any more new on the Storting than it has been this winter. There's a lot to do on Stortinget, but maybe there's an extra amount to get involved in when you're going to find out in the hallways for the first time, and when you're going to find out how the trial is going on. Anyway, I think the Storting has turned out from its best side on several occasions, and it delights me every time some of you do just that from the pulpit. We have a responsibility beyond what our party membership owes, and that responsibility is that we have a constructive attitude in each of our fractions and in the crossroads we need to find solutions. I think we should all be concerned about that. This is about the role of the Storting in relation to the other state powers. We have made historical decisions this winter – and I look at Martin Kolberg, who has been the head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee – in a comprehensive round of the Constitution. We've made the biggest changes to the Constitution that may have been done together ever. We've given the Constitution a new theme of language, and we've given it a separate chapter on human rights. We are in the middle of the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, and I think we should all be proud of the commitment shown by the people of Norway to the anniversary. It's been a wonderful experience for me, which has been privileged and allowed to travel and meet many on that occasion, but I'm also sure that many of you have met many, and that you get feedback from the audience, which tells of a great commitment. I think it's promising, interesting and exciting that the Constitution is just as far ahead of the people's consciousness and engages as widely as it does. Then I will be allowed to remind you that we are not finished with the Constitutional Jubilee at all. Many people might have thought that when we had written the completed May month, most of it was avoided. This has been the 17th of May, it's clear, but so far we have marked the creation of the Constitution. We should not forget that from 17 May until 4 November, when the revised Constitution was passed in the Grand Duchy in 1814, the struggle for the Constitution stood. Then there was a constitution to protect, when Norway’s independence was really put to the test – both military and political. And in the second half of the Constitutional Jubilee, that's exactly the perspective we're going to draw out. I think it's going to be considered interesting and exciting, maybe just because that part of the story hasn't been as much forward as the first part, which might have been a little bit more exciting when you were in battle and was going to write the constitution. Summer is at the door. It means meeting with organizations. That doesn't mean you have a holiday until 1 October, there are people living in that error. I stress that this is not the case – I know that I don't have to underline it to you – but I think it is important that we meet many people, and that we may just take the anniversary of the Constitution in these meetings and work for what is future-oriented in it, namely a living and dynamic democracy, which we can be happy to have in Norway. I would also like to take this opportunity now to thank the many people who are making an effort at work in this house. The size is a big and demanding house, there are many departments, many functions. We're a demanding team to keep track of, and we're doing a pretty big and complex job. It requires a well-greased machinery of people and a large organization around us, and only such a voting that we have had now requires an accuracy and a properness in the work that is all reason to appreciate – so it is given thanks to all those who provide a qualitatively very good work. Finally, let me – on behalf of myself and the presidency for the rest – wish you a really good summer and welcome back in October. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? No one has done so, and the meeting has been cancelled.
