ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e57	Representatives Ingebjørg Vosskensen, Morten Wold, Kristin Örmen Johnsen, Jenny Klinge, Frank J. Jensen and Ingjerd Schou, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternates, for Hordaland County Einar Horvei and for Oslo Frode Helgerud, have taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: From the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Marianne Marthinsen on 4 and 5 February to attend the OECD Parliamentary Seminar in Paris. From the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative Sylvi Graham from 4 February until further notice. From the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Gunvor Eldegard from 4 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Akershus County of Thore Vestby and Anne Odenmarck and for Oslo Truls Wickholm, are called to attend the term of leave. Thore Vestby, Anne Odenmarck and Truls Wickholm are present and will take the seat. Case No. 1 and 2 are interpellations, and the President will propose, by reference to Section 79 of the Rules of Procedure, to depart from the general procedure for interpelling debates by discussing them together. The two interpellations are largely related to the same theme. – Nobody has asked for the floor, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e154	The President will then propose that the speaking time be allocated as follows: First, the interpellant and the two members of the Government receive one post each of up to 10 minutes, followed by a new post of up to 3 minutes each. Then open for up to 15 speakers with a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Finally, the interpellant and the two members of the Government are given one post each of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The President will further refer to the inter-pelling texts on agenda No. 40, and will also deviate from common practice by the President not going to read out the two interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e163	Human rights shall apply everywhere and at all times, including during the Olympic Games in Sochi. «Any form of discrimination with claim to a country or a person on grounds of race, religion, politics, gender or other is incompatible with the Olympic Movement.» This is stated in the «Fundamental Principles» of the Olympic Charter, and it stands on the front of this T-shirt, which LLH has made in front of the OL in Sochi. In a world where human rights violations are, unfortunately, the rule rather than the exception, the IOC principle is a challenge. This is the case with the Olympic Games. However, the challenge and relationship between human rights and sport are also important in events such as: football World Cup, to be organised in 2018 in Russia and in 2022 in Qatar, and I could add chess World Cup and other sporting events. I'm slipping like a child to the Olympics in Sochi. I love sports, because it's a wonderful combination of games and competition, but I'm also aware that in our world it's a strong element of politics in major sporting events. History shows that this is a policy of good and bad. At its best, sport can contribute to liberation and reconciliation, as the sport boycott and its suspension have done in South Africa. The second time sports have been tried by authoritarian regimes, something Berlin-OL well is the prime example. For a major sporting event such as a Winter Olympics, political authorities must therefore consider how they behave. In connection with the OL in Sochi it is absolutely necessary. In recent years, there has been a serious negative development when it comes to human rights and democracy in our neighbouring country, Russia. Power is centralised, while civil society and independent pressure are weakened. There are a number of laws that weaken democracy: Change in the laws of assemblies, a change that limits people's ability to be politically active. Act on the restriction of the Internet, which gives the authorities wide powers to close websites. The implementation of a code of honor, which criminalises legitimate criticism of the government or public servants. Intensification of criminal offences concerning religious freedom which may penalise acts intended to insult the religious feelings of threatened persons, with a penalty of up to three years in prison. Law on Foreign Agents requiring voluntary organisations receiving financial contributions from foreign donors to register as ‘foreign agents’. Introduction of an anti-propaganda law. This promise means that one can be fined for what is called propaganda for untraditional sexual relations. The law will further exacerbate the situation of LHBT people in Russia, a group of people already exposed today. Amnesty International, the Helsinki Committee and a number of other important human rights actors are rightly strongly critical of developments in Russia in recent years. There are also a number of individual issues that show that this is not only legal, but practice. Arrests of everything from journalists to businessmen, arrests and harassment of journalists and activists, the case of the Pussy Riot rock group, all the way down to a number of worrying killings, for example. on journalists, are examples of a weakening of democracy and the rule of law in our neighbouring country, and that they do not meet the standard required by a fully developed democratic rule of law. Unfortunately, it also merges into a development in which power is increasingly centralised around one person. Russia is a major act. Countries in their sphere of interest listen to and learn from Russia. The sharp deterioration in human rights in recent years may therefore have effects far beyond the country’s own borders. We must therefore use all the possibilities to address relations with Russian authorities. OL in Sochi is a good and proper opportunity to do that. In the days of the sports festival, many people will look at Russia. It will also be noted what representatives from other countries do when they are visiting. Vladimir Putin will show off the image of Russia. It's not a surprise. According to the media, Russia spends more than 300 billion dollars. kr on an OL event not only because they are above average interested in winter sports. OL is policy. This means that Norwegian Minister of Culture, Foreign Affairs or Prime Minister of the Tribunal is a political act, just as the absence of Norwegian authorities is a political act. I still believe that contact and conversation are a necessary part of it to affect others. One rarely achieves something with not being present. Silent Acceptance is not the option, but it is active when making a decision. In my opinion, Norway – paragraph 1 – should meet, but clearly tell us about our view of human rights and democracy in the country. We should meet about it, and we should show it clearly. I'd like to add that taking it up at the meeting doesn't mean it's kind of like "by the way" at the end of the meeting, but putting it up high on the list of questions you're raising. That's what shows that it means something to us in the meeting. The second is that I think the government must clearly state publicly that Norwegian practitioners exercise their freedom of expression is the same under the Olympics in Sochi as otherwise. We have to stand behind the fact that the practitioners who want to do so are speaking, and that they use their freedom of expression to criticise relationships if they want to, even under the Olympics. Some leaders have chosen not to travel to Sochi. I think it's best that Norway is represented politically, but only if we do something for human rights and democracy when we're there. In the future, this could be a regular debate. Despite what is in the Olympic Charter, our athletes will compete for medals in countries where serious violations of human rights occur. It is not a desirable or dangerous way to prevent it. Sport is human in every country. But we have to prevent the sport from being used to cover or legitimize repression. More or less authoritarian leaders may use such arrangements to strengthen their own position. There's no one on fire, at least those who spend many years of their lives in order to participate. We owe sport that sport is not a propaganda device. I think Norway and Norwegian sport should discuss how we can contribute to a development where fundamental dishes are more at the centre, and where sports events are not used to weaken them. I don't mean that we politicians should dictate it, of course not, but I mean that we can engage in sport, and everyone who's busy with sports – I'm one of them – to do something to put human rights higher on the list of concerns. It must start with an open discussion, and let me point to some elements that need to be included in it. One point: what criterion should an international body awarding an event? And what is the criterion for following up countries that have been awarded an event? A report by the Helsinki Committee has been prepared, including: that the follow-up from the IOC of the requirements of the Sochi-OL has not been close enough. There may be grounds for criticism here. These are prestigious and important decisions, and there is power and possibility of influence behind them. Point two: How does a practitioner secure his dishes during the Olympics and other events, and that they are not forced to be extra careful in the event of major events? There is no requirement for an appearance, but there is a proper one to have, even during a big sports event. Point three: How does democratisation ensure and increase openness in the bodies that award and follow up major sporting events? There is a problem of lack of legitimacy around decisions and lack of insight into how they have behaved. Point four: What should Norwegian sport do? How should sport seek to influence through its representatives? And how should they adapt to other concerns, such as Norwegian foreign policy, in their activity? I ask questions because I do not have a fascist product either. But after the last medals have been distributed in Sochi, and after Norway has hopefully had a rich medallion winter, we should take that debate – and he can start now, with the posts that come after me. Thank you for me!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e225	While Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende is on his way up to the pulpit, the President will briefly comment on the representative of Solhjell's T-shirt, which I think is a fine prop, whose message I like to join, but I rather consider it a prop rather than a part of a natural suit on the speaker's chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e228	Human rights are the very building blocks of a democratic society. Fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, assembly and freedom of organisation guarantee human dignity for the individual and are a prerequisite for participation in the National Government. Human rights provide predictability and protection against abuse of power. Human rights are universal. They all include, regardless of age, sex, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation and where in the world you live. The 200th anniversary of the Constitution gives us a reminder of what the idea of universal and inviolable rights has meant for the development of Norway. Therefore, the fight for human rights has a central place in government policy, not least in foreign and development policy. I'm worried about the restrictions in Russian law lately. These are legislative changes which, in sum and practice, put freedom of expression and assembly under pressure and which hamper the working conditions of civil society. Among the laws we have noticed – and these were also mentioned by the representative Solhjell – are the tightening up of the law on demonstrations and public assemblies, the law on blacklisting of websites, the reintroduction of criminal liability for reverend, the reinforced law on espionage and country treason, and a new law on violation of religious feelings. These laws have different purposes. But each of them also places restrictions on people's opinions, and I fear that together they weaken the condition of freedom of expression in Russia. From the Norwegian side, we have been concerned with the working conditions of civil society and the opportunities for cooperation between non-governmental organisations in Norway and Russia. We are concerned about legislation requiring organisations engaged in political work and receiving support from abroad to register as ‘foreign agents’. This is stranger to us. They feel that this is stigmatizing, and that it undermines their legitimacy and simply inhibits their work. Extremism law has also been used as a basis for inspections of non-governmental organisations. The overall picture is that it becomes more difficult to be an activist, a minority or a social citizen in Russia. The protection of such groups and persons is weakened. Negative attitudes to homofiles are widespread in Russia. We are concerned that the ban on propaganda on non-traditional sexual relations with minors, the so-called propaganda law, puts a group already exposed in a more pressing situation. According to Russian human rights defenders, the law has contributed to increased homophobia and increased the number of violent attacks against homosexuals. The Russian authorities are responsible for ensuring that human rights are respected for all their citizens, including homosexuals and sexual minorities. I therefore believe it is important that we address this topic as part of the broader human rights dialogue with Russia. The government is working globally and systematically to promote human rights. We discuss human rights in bilateral talks with Russia. We work with other countries in international organisations, and we also cooperate with civil society in Norway and Russia. Human rights are a permanent part of our broad and active dialogue with Russia – under the previous government and under this government. Norway's cooperation with Russia covers a wide range of issues. In many areas, we have common interests, including: in the northern regions. A good cooperation is a payoff for both parties. It is precisely this broad cooperation that provides a good platform for discussing also difficult issues. And one thing is to discuss, another thing is to get through and be listened to. I myself addressed the situation of Russian non-governmental organisations and sexual minorities in my conversation with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov and the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Duma in January. There were good and open conversations on these questions. We expect Russia to fulfil its obligations in relevant UN conventions and through its membership of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, and the Council of Europe. We address this expectation and our concern for the development of Russia in international bodies, such as the OSCE, the UN Human Rights Council and the Council of Europe. We also cooperate closely with like-minded countries in these bodies. We have active cooperation with human rights organisations, both in Norway and in Russia. The experience and views of organisations are important to us. I even met several human rights organisations when I was in Moscow in January. The conversations made a strong impression on me and gave a clear impression that these organisations feel under pressure. Our foreign stations in Russia have regular contact with human rights defenders and non-governmental organisations. This is an important part of the work of these embassies and consulates. Cooperation between Russian and Norwegian organisations is important to strengthen civil society in Russia. The Government is making a significant contribution to this end. This year we're going to give about 145 million. kr for project cooperation with Russia. A very large proportion of these funds go to support civil society, of which 40 million. D goes directly to the promotion of human rights and democracy. The OL in Sochi, which was also in the presence of the representative, has given a lot of international attention to the human rights situation in Russia. Norway will have a large team of sportsmen in the winter Olympics. The tradition believes the Prime Minister and other government representatives will be present for periods. We need to participate fully and support our sportsmen – also under Paralympics. Of course, at any political meetings in Sochi, we will address the human rights situation, as we will also address other important issues in our broad cooperation with Russia. We have dialogue with human rights organisations in Norway and Russia, including LHBT organisations, where we discuss openly and widely how we best promote Norwegian views on human rights issues. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Culture will meet with these organisations tomorrow afternoon. Many organisations tell us that it is particularly important that we also follow the situation after the Olympic Games. I agree. We will continue to address the human rights situation in Russia and express our concern. We will be clear that we expect Russia to discharge its international obligations. And we want to remember the state's responsibility for protecting all minority groups, including sexual minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e272	Like the representative Solhjell, I am concerned about the human rights situation in Russia. The recent restrictions we have seen in the law create increased pressure on human rights activists, non-governmental organisations and minorities. The law prohibiting propaganda for non-traditional sexual relations with minors creates particular pressure on sexual minorities in Russia. As Minister of Culture, I am concerned about the situation of civil society and voluntary organisation as a result of the NGO Act. I am also concerned about the conditions for critical journalists and activists. On Wednesday, therefore, the Prime Minister and I – as the Foreign Minister also stressed – will have the opportunity to meet more organisations to discuss the situation and hear their experiences after the entry into force of the new laws. Organisations such as LLH, Bellona, the Nature Conservation Association and Nature and Youth are all on an important basis of experience that we hope to gain insight into. Together with the Helsinki Committee and the Human Rights House, they come to the meeting to discuss the situation. Norway is a consistent defender of human rights. In this area, we prioritise an active bilateral dialogue to promote positive development. While addressing the problems bilaterally, Norway is also actively working through international forums such as: The OSCE, the UN Human Rights Council and the Council of Europe. We are also working with other countries to focus on these important issues. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has just outlined the broad and comprehensive work being carried out at both authority and organisational level in promoting human rights and strengthening civil society in Russia. The representative, Mr Solhell, takes up the responsibility of sport for promoting human rights, anti-discrimination and equal rights. He emphasises the anti-discrimination provisions of the IOC Olympic Charter and calls for a debate in sport on how to shape the allocation and implementation of future OLs. It is important that sport, both in Norway and internationally, is based on fundamental values such as democracy and equivalency across gender, ethnicity, outlook on life and sexual orientation. I agree that sports organisations should discuss how values should characterise sports activity and how sport can contribute to a positive social development in these areas. Discussions must take place, and are also taking place today, in the sport’s own forum – well-helped by society they are part of. However, while it is desirable to discuss whether essential requirements should be imposed on countries to organise the OL, excluding countries from organising the OL is not certain to be an effective tool for creating a more positive development in the human rights situation. It is often said that the OL is used as an exhibition window for the organiser country. That might be right. At the same time, the organiser status also serves as a spotlight on critical societal conditions. I think it's healthy that this light hovers over countries that have challenges, among other things. human rights, in order to bring up the critical conditions of the day. Among other things, it does. that we have such debates as we have here today. The Russian Act prohibiting propaganda for non-traditional sexual relations with minors is unlikely to receive the same international attention if it was not for Russia to organise the Winter Olympics in Sochi. The important thing is that we don't forget these questions when the OL and Paralympics in Sochi are over and the attention is not as strong anymore. From the Norwegian side, we will continue our strong commitment in this area regardless of Olympic games. I believe in dialogue instead of boikott and believe that our presence in Sochi helps to keep the lines open for further communication on difficult topics – which I also understand that the representative Solhjell underlines. But let me come back to the important work of sport in this area. Good valuation is a prerequisite for creating an inclusive and open sport for all. The Norwegian Sports Association has chosen to play an active role in the public debate on different value themes to ensure that the common values of sport are known in society. Sport happiness for all and the right not to be discriminated against because of sexual orientation is part of the value base of Norwegian sport. In order to meet this objective, the Norwegian Sports Association is working to prevent and combat homophobia and homophobia in organised sport. I have noticed that during the period 2007-2009, Norway’s sports federations carried out the project ‘With the sport against homosexuality’. Today, the Sports Association continues this work through its ordinary activities. They include: priority to include the theme in the training of athletes. Several gay and lesbian top athletes in Norway are currently serving as good role models for young practitioners and helping to create tolerance and increased understanding in sport and society. For Norwegian sport, it is a strength that they have been working on these issues for several years. Sports associations have received many positive feedback on the work they have done. I also know that the Sports Association shares their experience with other national sports organisations and with international sports organisations when they meet them in different forums. Both in previous Olympic games and now in front of Sochi, the line of the Sports Association has been to facilitate free expression, engage in discussions and indicate abuses of human rights. I have also noticed that in recent months, both Norwegian and foreign sportsmen have been very committed to the human rights situation in Russia. At the same time, the Norwegian Sports Association is aware that under the OL there are some rules that exercisers have to deal with. The regulatory framework says, among other things: not to use the Olympic Games as an arena for political or religious propaganda. Here it's important for us all to remember that the performers' job in the Olympics is primarily to be practitioners. We should not expect the performers in these days to be responsible for political influence. We are the authorities responsible for exerting political influence on the authorities of other countries. This does not mean that Norwegian practitioners should be censored in an interview context. I have noticed that IOC President Thomas Bach himself has stated that the practitioners can freely make protests and political statements in connection with the press conferences under the OL. On the part of the Norwegian authorities, we will continue our strong commitment to human rights regardless of the Olympic Games. At the same time, I am pleased that we have a sports movement in Norway that takes its value seriously. I also hope that Norwegian sport continues its important value work both nationally and not least in the international forums in which they participate. Sport has an absolute opportunity to contribute to a positive social development in these areas. Then it must be our task as politicians to make sure that it is possible to focus on the situation regarding human rights, even during the games in Sochi, and to bring it up in the forums in which it is possible to address it, and on an appropriate occasion could also bring it to our political colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e331	I take the comment on my T-shirt, and if I am to be completely honest, I was not completely out of the question either. I promise I won't make it a habit, but I thought he'd be shown from Storting's pulpit. I thought the Minister for Foreign Affairs held a very good review of the human rights and democracy situation in Russia; that it was nuanced, but also – in which I am so clearly in agreement – unfortunately very alarming and negative in recent years. Both I and he could have also certainly added that we can protest as much as we want, but it is not that only Norway says it is automatically improved. But over time, I believe that most countries are affected by what other countries say to them, especially if it is done by many — and over time. When it comes to Sochi more specifically, it's good to right that Norway will address human rights issues in all contexts where appropriate. But I would like briefly to make the observation that I myself have experienced in such a context that "suming up" can mean a lot of things. An experienced diplomat from a large country once told me that if you want to affect someone with something important, there must be 1 or 2 on your list in the meeting. I have experienced myself many times with other representatives from other countries who say 'and by the way' at the end of the meeting, and then they read out something they got on a paper. I take it for granted that for the Foreign Minister, ‘take up’ also means ‘to make important’ here. I would also like to challenge him on: would a Norwegian authority also externally under the OL in Sochi present the necessary criticism and express things that can be seen by people in Russia? I am also pleased with the very clear message from the Minister of Culture about the freedom of expression of the practitioners. That I thought was very positive and of course quite appropriate that she did, and I thought she did it in a clear and good way. I think we're some people that the main choice is dialogue, not boycott. But I may miss that she went a little further into the debate behind it. I don't think, as I said in my post, that leaving OL to nations is a dangerous way. But I think there are significant possibilities for pre-allocation influence, because these are very important questions for those countries that want an OL. I think there is even more power to influence in the period from allocation to implementation, where one can set up criteria and standards and actually affect through its implementation. I thought maybe she would take a little more into account in her next comment. She also missed one question that I raised, and that was the question of democracy and openness in the international organs, it's FIFA or IOC. So I could imagine ending with a question: Is the Minister of Culture satisfied with the degree of openness and democracy that we have in the International Olympic Committee today – is it a theme she might be thinking about putting more on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e346	I can join in what is behind Solhjell's commitment here, namely the commitment to universal human rights – that they should also apply in our neighbouring countries, and that we should use every opportunity we have to address it also with the Russian authorities when we meet them. What I said in my post, and as I would like to repeat, is that we are concerned about the tightening up of Russian law lately. These are legislative changes which, in sum and practice, put freedom of expression and assembly under pressure and which hamper the working conditions of civil society. That is the amount in total and in practice we now also pay attention to, and that we have addressed in those conversations. This has now also been brought to various courts. Among other things, several Russian NGOs have appealed to the courts to register as foreign agents, and it is also true that there is a judgment in the European Court of Human Rights which has established that Russia has violated the right of LHBT activists to freedom of assembly and organisation and protection against discrimination. Norway attaches weight to this judgment and has taken note of it. I also think we should quickly agree that the fact that the OL is now being organized in Sochi and Russia has actually given a great international attention to the situation of civil society, and also to the situation of sexual minorities. It's for thought. But I also think of course that we have a responsibility to address this in such a way that it is listened to, and hopefully it will lead to changes in the future in terms of methodology and policy. Then we have this that the representative Solhjell is about, about how to take it up – whether it should be no. 1 on the agenda or No 2nd@item: inlistbox I have full confidence that our Prime Minister – if she has an opportunity to discuss these issues with Russian politicians – will do so in such a way that they listen to a constructive partner, as they perceive Norway as. This is not primarily about including it on the agenda as No. 1 or No 2, but simply that they listen to our strong commitment, and that we really mean this. What order I took it in with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov, is actually cracking indifferent. But if he listened to what I said and felt my commitment, and he perceives Norway as a constructive partner, it might have a preventative effect. And that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e359	I think it is very important to stress that there is a broad consensus that this is a very important issue, and I am pleased that the representative has also put this on the agenda. I think it's important for these games that are now going to go to Sochi, that the authorities in different countries also focus heavily on this, as well as the organisations that are working on it. I also have to say that I am very pleased that the Sports Association and Norwegian sports as a whole are also very focused on this and take their values seriously, and that they have also chosen to have such an active role, not only at home in the public debate on different value themes, but also, not least, made them known in their international forums. It is primarily that sport must go to the barricades and take these debates, including in the international organisations of which they are part. We also know that. I'm also very happy that there are opportunities for us. Not least through the Youth Olympics at Lillehammer in 2016, we have a unique opportunity to be a very good ambassador for how we think sports games should really be discontinued, and for what kind of focus it should also be on the different values. It is also very good for Norwegian sport to make the values underlying sports activity visible in Norway. It may also be a unique opportunity for us, at political level, to be involved in focusing on what we think should underpin our values in events that are organised. It is very important for me to stress that the Sports Association – sport itself – has been very clear that the practitioners should be able to express themselves freely and engage in discussions and not least to be able to point out the rights and abuses of these people in this area. It is extremely important that, as the IOC President has also underlined, the possibility of making free protests in political statements at the press conferences under the OL is given. So it's like this, as it's been underlined both by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and by the undersigned, that of course we want to deal with our contacts in an appropriate way when you get to meetings under the Olympic Games in Sochi. And when I say that we're going to take this up in an appropriate way and put it on the agenda, I don't mean under the so-called 'and by the way' at the bottom of a meeting, but these are important questions for us to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e372	Let me first thank the interpellant for putting in this interpellance. I would like to make it clear that Norway has a proper and a good relationship with Russia. Demanding, yes, yes, but we've done well to cooperate in the northern regions, and I also want to show that our cooperation over very many years also resulted in the sharing line agreement, an agreement that amazed the rest of the world. We meet Russians in several regional cooperation bodies – the Arctic Council, the Baltic Council, Barents Cooperation – and let me add that this is not just at government level; it is happening not least at parliamentarian level, which I would like to stress, and we are working together in the northern regions on the management of fishing resources and vulnerable areas of the Arctic. These contact points also give us the opportunity to address – and discuss – issues and themes that we find problematic, and we do, and we will. I have also noticed what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says about it. We bring up human rights, we bring up the freedom of organisation, the tightening of freedoms that we thought were won in the 1990s. The development of President Putin's third presidency has contributed in several areas to undermining fundamental human rights: new laws restricting the right to freedom of expression have been adopted. Human rights defenders, journalists and lawyers are subjected to persecution and abuse. Legal rights to use press censorship and to blacklist and block websites if published material is considered to be so-called extremist or otherwise harmful to public health, morality or security – as it is said – are among the instruments. A very special and serious development, to which the interpellant also refers, is increased discrimination because of race, ethnicity, sex, religion, politics and especially sexual orientation, and the latter is really the most serious. For example, the introduction of the anti-propaganda law adopted by the State Duma in June 2013, which has been referred to by several countries, opens up. excessive fines for people who promote so-called ‘propaganda for untraditional sexual relations’ in front of children. This implies that there is no longer a positive mention of lesbians, gays, biphiles and transhumance. Homophile abuses have increased in the last year. In addition, the prohibition has strong support from the Russian Orthodox Church, with the patriarch of Moscow at the head, which insists on a statement that homosexuality means ‘human beings choose the road to destruction’. Perhaps the Russian Church itself is the source of what is happening in this field, and we know the cooperation between the Russian Church and the authorities. The Norwegian Prime Minister has confirmed that she will travel to Sochi, in line with what has been common. Let me add that the Workers' Party supports this, because the OL is primarily a sports event, and that must be the main focus for both practitioners and spectators. The International Olympic Committee shall have been guaranteed that the new homologs shall not apply to participants and travellers to the Sochi-OL. But what will the Norwegian authorities do if people are nevertheless subjected to harassment, incitement, discrimination – and I am talking first and foremost about LHBT people, but there may also be others – do you want to protest? I am very pleased with the statements that have now come from both the Council of State and the Minister of Foreign Affairs that talks – whether it be the Prime Minister or the Minister of Culture – will address the human rights situation with his Russian colleagues in Sochi. I'm glad the Foreign Minister made it so clear. It is also quite common that when you have conversations on an informal level, it is possible to deal with such matters. Let me add that other arenas are still more important. The OL in Sochi does not resolve Russia's human rights situation, but the OL and preparations for the OL have created a debate that is becoming important in the future. When the matter is discussed, and opinions are broken, we usually take more steps forward. Sport events can also contribute to changes in attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e391	I believe that all share the concern about the restrictions on rights we see in our neighbouring country, Russia: laws and legislative changes lead to restrictions for different groups, especially vulnerable minority groups. It's more arbitrary, and some people experience persecution from the authorities, and it's a disturbing pattern after Putin became president again. Today's debate is about freedom of expression and discrimination against homosexuals. It has also been mentioned in the weeks that have gone by for a boycott – that political leaders should not travel and stay at home, and that practitioners and sports leaders should use the sports arena for propaganda and support. First of all, it is nice to hear that neither SV wants anything like that, for no country, no practitioners or any politicians around, want it. Amnesty and other organizations have, on the contrary, decided that we should listen, that we should use the Olympic Games and Paraolympics in Sochi and the attention it receives, as a platform to make our opinions heard. This sport has also provided for itself, because, with the exception of the medal ceremonies and the official press conferences, Norwegian practitioners are quite free to express themselves and say exactly what they want. The reason why some arenas under the Olympics should be free of political opinions is that sport unites us people and nations in its being; it is the good sports spirit we want to maintain and preserve, so that the ski trail does not become a debater. I think that Norwegian sport has put itself on the right track: practitioners and leaders are encouraged to deal with the IOC legislation, but of course they have full freedom of expression, as they have also had before – last during the Olympic Games in Beijing. Norwegian sport is not directed by the Minister of Culture, although it may seem that SV and Solhjell may want to do so occasionally, but sport itself is actively working on these questions. I am quite certain that Norwegian sport is doing this in a good way. Instead of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Culture getting involved in the arenas of sport, and the SV believes that the Minister of Culture must ‘do something’ to ensure freedom of expression for Norwegian practitioners, it is quite clear that sport is conscious of its responsibilities. The Minister of Culture and other representatives raise – as we hear here today – human rights issues in all forums where it is natural. The Prime Minister confirmed this no later than today, the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Foreign Affairs now confirm it in here. So there is no doubt that this is high on the agenda, and that is good! For what is happening in Russia should absolutely be charged. Even Putin has had to go rarely far in ensuring that rights are respected, which would hardly have happened if there had not been a common pressure and a very large international attention around the Olympic Games and Paralympics in Sochi. It's important that we use this opportunity to tell off through established channels, and it's probably a little easier when you're there than when you get home. We have to ask the question: do we want the practitioners to stand on the pole and scour each other because sports are being politicized? Of course, we do not want to do that. It's important that we work to make the Olympics and Paralympics what it really should be, also in Russia: an arena where we try to unite people and nations for a short time across differences and disagreements. We want the Olympics – not the political games.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e411	I must also be allowed to thank the interpellant. I believe that in every context and every day we should discuss violations of human rights – not only in Russia, but also in a number of other contexts. Today, we are confirmed – from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Culture – that it is happening today, and I am sure that they are following the path that the previous government followed in this field too, namely that we are discussing and addressing this issue in all forums, whether it be through our foreign stations, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, voluntary organisations, or at the parliamentary level, on which Marit Nybakk was quite right inside, and which I think may become more important and important When we look forward, I think it might be more important and important that we get that kind of arena and use them much more. I don't know the details of all the changes in the laws that are referred to from the interpellant, but all the things that are referred to here are very worrying. It's a development that's going in the negative direction. There's no doubt about it. However, how Norway in different forums should raise this issue beyond what is already done, balanced and in a way that does not help it to make the situation worse for some people and groups in some regions and some countries, I am a little uncertain. Whether sports events can be used directly as a tool, I am reasonably uncertain about, for politicising sport or a boycott or exclusion of some countries with a background in violations of human rights in relation to events, I think will close the situation to a much greater extent and perhaps make the situation worse. I believe in openness, and therefore I also believe that the OL in Sochi in small and large will contribute to the improvement of the situation, even if it is demanding. Here I also share the view of the representative Nybakk when she says that just the preparations and the debate that have taken place prior to this OL, make us take small steps in the right direction. When I listen to some sportsmen – not only Norwegian but also Russian sportsmen – they are clear and clear that they want to use their freedom of expression. Collecting so many sportsmen, who are going to live together, but who are also going to compete, I believe alone and in themselves that this type of sporting event has a significant contribution to make in terms of working against human rights violations. I believe that what sportsmen indirectly do, without meddling sports and politics, is helping to give strength to the development of democracy and freedom of expression. I think the concessions that have come from Putin over the last few weeks, which may be a bit demanding in terms of the changes in the laws that it refers to, are a confirmation that Russia and Putin are also seeing that the debate that has now come is perhaps having to think in other ways. Now the debate is going ahead of the Olympics in Sochi, but there are a number of other sporting events too, and I see that this debate is also coming up in these forums. I think we can let sport take this responsibility ourselves to a much greater extent, and we see that it does too. The sports federation, international sports federations and international organisations are very clear on this, and I think they can contribute much more to focusing on this, without us politicizing sport to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e430	Democracy and human rights represent fundamental values. They're worth fighting for, both in our own country and internationally. Let me therefore thank the representative, Mr Solhjell, for taking up these interviews on democracy and human rights in Russia and what we can do on the Norwegian side to improve the outcome and situation of our large neighbouring country in the East. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Culture for their constructive response, for following up the work of Norway, and for the good dialogue with organisations fighting for human rights in Russia. Let me underline our starting point: I fully agree with the inter-pellant that there is cause for great anxiety and concern about the situation of democracy and human rights in Russia. It has been clearly documented for many years, and it is listed in both international forums and by a number of human rights organisations. Since the turn of the century, there has been a trend towards more authoritarian development. It has not been easy for those who have chosen the opposition and the fight for human rights. A general challenge is discrimination against different minority groups, whether political, religious or sexual. Several new laws limit central human rights, including: freedom of assembly. Civil society's space for being a critical force has also been limited. In addition, there are challenges Russia has faced in addressing demands from areas requiring greater self-sufficiency, such as Chechnya. And when civilian meeting places are caused by Islamic terror, it also creates a requirement for security efforts for all citizens. Russia still has a way to develop the rule of law. There is therefore every reason why Norway should continue to address the development of both human rights and democracy in the face of the regimes in Russia. This is an area of international policy where I expect Norway to take leadership both in multilateral forums and bilaterally. I would also like to stress that while we take up the current questions, we have to stick to a long-term perspective. There are only a few decades since Russia threw off a totalitarian communist system. A lot of positive has happened since that. It's a completely different and more open Russia we're now meeting than the old Soviet Union in Lenin, Stalin and Breshnev's time. The work of human rights and democracy is a continuing responsibility. Now, when we're going to have a winter Olympic, I think it's important to realize that it's even more important what we do in the long term than what we do in some sports-filled weeks, where the world's leading practicers in winter sports are going to discuss the medals. It's in a long-term perspective that we can achieve results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e449	First, thank you to the interpellant for putting an important theme on the agenda. Human rights and democracy are important issues that were clearly fast ahead of being high on the agenda, and as one must expect our political leaders present in Sochi to include in their talks with representatives of the Russian regime. Infringements of the law made in Russia, disregarding freedom of expression and challenging the freedom of assembly. In practice, this means, among other things. one can be arrested to speak positively of homophilia. The ban applies to both Russians and foreigners. Right-wing extreme groups have long subjected sexual minorities to torture, persecution, Christmas and killing, while the police literally look at it without intervention. No one can sit quietly and watch this happen, either in sport or among political powers. It is good that the Prime Minister will meet human rights organisations tomorrow. From the media, one can see that Solberg – given that she has a political meeting – will raise concerns from the Norwegian side, as one always does with Russian government powers. The Prime Minister and other ministers travelling to Sochi should use a lot of resources to get to political meetings in advance of the visit. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of Culture say anything about what has been done with this so far? Because there is a expectation that the government will address human rights issues under the OL. The OL is the right and important arena to address these demanding questions. The whole world is right against Russia, and then a government must take advantage of every possibility of exerting influence on the openly demanding situation of individual groups in Russia. The government's participation should not only be about promoting Oslo's candidacy seeking the Winter Olympics in 2022, but also focus on basic human rights. I am pleased that the Minister for Culture has just emphasised that one should also ensure freedom of expression for sportsmen. It also makes it possible for them to underline the Norwegian sense of value on which we are building our democracy, and what a far beyond Norway's borders recognizes as important courts, whether one is a sportsman, belongs to minority groups or is a politician, for that matter. IOC member Gerhard Heiberg said at Aktuelt that it was pointless for the IOC to discuss human rights with Russian regimes. It gets hosts up to the IOC. We can't control it from this room, but I'm very pleased with the clear attitude that is being given to you by the state councils that are present, to put things high on the agenda. And I support what Marit Nybakk said: that we, as parliamentarians, must also address these issues, not only now in connection with the O.L., but also in the further work. What is good now is that the case has come on the agenda in a very clear way, and that many groups are attentive to the issues, far beyond the policy remit. It's an important discussion. It is a long process. What happens now is the beginning of a change that we must be active in supporting, both during the OL and in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e460	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for two important interpellations. Suffering if they are implemented by the President in a slightly untraditional way, I think this will be a good debate. I would also like to thank the Councils for their response, which I see as good, broad reviews and symbols of an active commitment also in relation to human rights. I'm also glad we get a proper MR debate in Stortinget. We need more of that, and we need to do it on both national and international issues. I am glad that there is such a broad consensus in this Chamber about standing up for the rights that we see are threatened in our large neighbouring country: both freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, rules on private agents and LHBT rights. We in the Left have good contact with our sister party in Russia, which has addressed all these aspects in all our meetings with them. But I want to include two new aspects that they also point to when implementing the OL in Sochi. One is the rights of the different ethnic groups in Russia. We now see that they are implementing the OL in an area of the country where many have an ethnicity that has been in conflict with the ethnic Russian group for a long time. Having respect for different ethnic backgrounds and not wanting to escalate conflicts with such an event is also an important part of this. Another important aspect that our sister party has also addressed is the environmental aspect of the event, which appears to be partly absent. It's the first time winter-OL is arranged in a subtropical area, and it's quite demanding in itself. When we look at how the OL organisers have behaved in relation to international conventions in this area – in terms of diversity of species and other aspects of the environment – it has been a matter of great concern to our sister party, for example. with regard to the construction of the OL arena. I have to say that I am proud that we have many Norwegian practitioners who will use their chance to say what they mean. I'm not always as proud of the IOC and the IOC's behaviour and ability to push through human rights. I think they would have had a much greater impact if they had wanted to use the power they have. I believe that this, say if it was only Navarsete who took it into a comment, is actually an argument when we in Norway are going to discuss whether we are going to be host nation to an OL. When we talk to our sister party, they say that our policy is important. It is clear that very many of the rules that are now taking place in Russia, such as: the rule relating to foreign agents has been picked from Western countries and has been introduced only in a different context. That rule has been picked right out of American law. But the concepts can be very different when you translate them from American to Russian, and that's how they have a different effect as well. But when, after a short Google search, I find out that there are 118 participants from Norway – our leading spokesmen and our leading symbols of important sports for Norway – and that, I know, there is only one open gay among these 118, namely Hilde Engeli, snowboarders, I think it might say something about our sports policy and how easy it is to be a gay hockey player or a gay football player in Norway. Perhaps it also says something about the sport policy we should pursue, and perhaps it would have given us even greater impact in Russia if we had had more good inclusion results to point to also in Norway. It is strange that a small Norwegian government is able to spank more gay representatives than 118 representatives of Norwegian winter sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e473	There is an important debate that the interpellant has raised here today. Thanks to Solhell for doing it. I also think that the government's response has been good. Sport is our largest organization, and it engages people of all ages and in every hook of the country. That sport should be open and inclusive, concerns us all. Therefore, it was important that the Norwegian Sports Association made a necessary settlement with its own organisation and its own commitment to homosexuality. It happened in 2006 after an entry in Dagsrevyen, where a researcher claimed that there were two homophobic arenas again in Norway: in sport and in the Church. The difference was that in the Church they discussed it, in the sport it was quite quiet. Together with LLH and Norsk Folkehelpen and with the support of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, a project was carried out called the Med sport against homosexuality. The project was eventually completed and is now a natural part of its activities. But I think it is absolutely right that there are still many sportsmen who experience discrimination here in Norway too. I think it's important that we come with us when we're going out into the world and deal with these issues. I am pleased that the Norwegian Sports Association has it high on the agenda in its work, also internationally. As then sports president Tove Paule said: ‘I am particularly proud that we are among the sports organisations that have advanced this theme in the international sports family and that we have also addressed the theme both at the IOC Sport for All Conference and at the Congress of the European Olympic Committees.’ I had a meeting with NIF's management in January, because I assumed that this was going to be a theme now before the Sochi-OL. I was then confirmed that the organisation continues its work of disseminating knowledge and experience from my own work against discrimination. The results and experiences have been disseminated specifically to other national Olympic committees, and there is a continuing work. The Norwegian project is said to have been a useful tool in the debate on LHBT rights prior to Sochi-OL. Within the framework and rules of implementation of the OL, it is my view that NIF has made an important contribution to ensuring freedom of expression for Norwegian athletes. But there is also a fine balance between what requirements we can set, and expectations we can have for non-governmental organisations when it comes to addressing foreign policy issues. OL in Sochi will not resolve Russia's human rights situation. However, the fact that the OL in Sochi has both contributed and will contribute to a debate on such issues is beyond doubt. Where crime of opinion takes place, the world usually moves forward. It must be allowed to hope that peaceful international sport cooperation can also contribute to good attitudes. As the interpellant, I have expectations that the Norwegian authorities, the Norwegian Government, will follow up initiatives towards the Russian authorities and Russian sport in the context where it is natural – also under the Sochi-OL. We must expect that both there and in other forums where Norwegian and Russian authorities meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e489	Like several speakers, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important question. This is an important debate, and it is good that Parliament is given the opportunity to discuss important human rights issues. We should have done that more often, and now we have a nice opportunity to do that. I also think there have been good answers from both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Culture on how Norway works in a wide range of ways to raise the human rights situation in Russia specifically, but also internationally and generally and widely. It's good to hear, and there's reason to feel very confident that this work will also be followed up on the occasions under an OL. When there is a big debate in Norway about how to deal with these issues, even during a major sporting event, it is a great sign of health. It's a sign that the North is busy with fair play. If exercisers are prevented, it is unacceptable. It is therefore good that sport itself is very clear on both how this work can be done internally in sport, and how to act if it happens along the way that practitioners are prevented. It is also good to hear that the government is constantly working to put these questions on the agenda, because the many violations we see of fundamental rights are intolerable. The obstacles to freedom of expression and the many obstacles we have seen to journalists' ability to do a good job are totally unacceptable. We have also seen examples of Norwegian journalists who have had restrictions on their freedom of movement and their ability to run good journalism when they have been on a mission in Russia. It is important that these discussions take place in the right channels. It will be wrong if sport is made a foreign policy tool for Norway. Therefore, it is important to be clear on how to deal with these issues. It is necessary that our representatives from the authorities, whether parliamentarians or government representatives, address such questions in their meetings and have it high on their agenda when they meet representatives of the authorities of other countries, and in particular Russian authorities. It is nice that the Norwegian people both show the importance of sporting events to improve the human rights situation, and also have expectations about the sport of standing up for these rights, and about standing up for the self-indulgence of the practitioners to participate in events – to participate in their skills – and also to express themselves. It's a health sign when people are busy with these things, and I'm glad to see that. It is good that we in the Grand Duchy have the opportunity to participate in the debate, and that we can express our expectations to the government representatives when they attend meetings in Russia. I think there have been good answers from the government's representatives on how to do that. I need to say that we have a clear expectation from Stortinget that this is being promised high on the agenda. And then I have a question that may not necessarily require answers today, but which is important to think through – from the sports side, but also from the government side: How do you deal with it if situations arise along the way in the Olympics, either that practitioners are denied access, that there are penalties if practitioners comment on these questions, or if journalists are subjected to pressure or are hindered in their work? How are you going to deal with this if it happens along the way in the Olympics? It is an important question that has not yet been addressed, which may be demanding to find answers in advance, but which it is important that you have a clear attitude before travelling, because then it is necessary to say clearly that in that case it will be totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e504	I now understand that the members of the government are ‘spath up’, which was the term Trine Skei Grande used, and it might explain even more of Left's scepticism to go into the government. But that was not really the point. Human rights shall apply everywhere. In these questions, we're never going to give up, we're never going to compromise. We know that the situation in many countries is very demanding in terms of human rights and democracy. It's okay to raise the tab when it comes to countries that are far away from us, but more demanding when it's a country near us – and even our own neighboring country. It is difficult with Russia because it is a neighbouring country with which we need to have good and constructive cooperation. I have worked through the work of interparliamentary bodies for many years to ensure that Norway and Europe also have constructive cooperation with Russia. Having Russia on the team, to put it a little bit simple, is absolutely crucial in a lot of questions. Yes, I have even registered that it is on the stairs that – quite soon, I think – a Norwegian-Russian partnership group will be established in Stortinget. I also think that is very good. We have to have, as I say, a good and close cooperation with Russia. Think about Barents' cooperation, which brings people in the north closer together, increases business activity and increases people-to-people cooperation, which I think is also very important. Think what the divider line can mean, or will mean, for the cooperation between Norway and Russia, not to talk about new sea routes and all that happens in the northern regions. Increased activity in the north, increased activity in the Barents Sea – gradually – will lead to an even greater need for constructive cooperation with Russia. But it's very demanding. In many areas, Russia is going in the wrong direction – which has also been addressed in today’s debate – and especially in areas related to human rights and democracy. We'll never defend that. We're never going to accept that. I think I would quote Willy Brandt, as I have done in many debates. He used the term ‘change through convergence’. It would have been a guide for him to work for ‘change through approach’. I think we should do that here too. We're never going to give up. That's why I think it's very happy, what I'm now recording, that there are no parties that are for any kind of boycott of OL. Boikott is rarely the solution to complicated political issues. That is why I have also disagreed with those – including those in their own party – who have called for the Prime Minister and members of the Government to stay at home and not travel to the Olympic Games in Sochi. I don't think that's the solution. The solution is to deal with these questions all the time, bring them on and find out that there are no compromises here. That is why I really have two messages on the issues raised here today: we should never give up on issues relating to human rights and democracy, and we should use every opportunity to point out human rights violations. The second message: Norway must have a constructive relationship with Russia, our important and large neighbour in the north-east. Finally, I think there has been a very good debate today – very good points from the interpellant and good answers from the members of the government. I think today's debate has balanced the dilemmas we see here, in a very good way. It is rare I can say that, but I think I really agree with everything that has been said in the debate today. Again, the solution to the challenges that have been addressed is that we continue the tough and hard fight for human rights and democracy through change through convergence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e521	If not, I cannot remember that our representatives who have been some of them in everything that has been said in a debate in the main room, but I have not been sitting here for too many years either. Let me thank you for one – I would say – very good debate, especially the part of the debate that was about developments in Russia and how we are looking for ways to put ourselves on it and promote our ideas towards Russia. It's complicated. At least I thought it was a pretty nuanced and good conversation. Then I thought that the part of the discussion that was about the slightly broader picture, how the relationship between human rights and large sporting events, OL and others, is, that what I'm going to say, is at least not as developed. Just a little visit to the representatives: I'm not in agreement with everything that was said here, even if I'm in agreement with a lot. I thought that representatives Eidem Løvaas and Sandberg might have had a slightly straightforward approach to a few problem options. They polemized against politicizing the Olympics – I don't know if it was me or anyone else at the time. I think, unfortunately, that it is they who are politicizing the Olympics. There are some countries that are looking for the OL and use the OL event to make themselves look like a gloss picture, even though there are countries with quite fundamental human rights challenges. Unfortunately, there are historical examples of the OL being politicised. What's important, as I see it, is not to be used in such a politicization. Is it so that by assigning an OL, things are improved almost automatically, or that it is a little bit in the cards? No, I think that's crazy. Let's use Beijing-OL as an example. I have tried to look at this before this debate. I haven't been able to find evidence or people who seriously believe that Beijing-OL contributed significantly to improving human rights in China. On the contrary, we know that the OL itself contributed to, inter alia: the forced movement of very many people and the fact that there were human rights violations associated with the implementation of the event. Unfortunately, we now see the same thing in Sochi. How Sochi has contributed, I think it's too early to say anything about, but that there's a potential for a country to be allocated the Olympics, there's no doubt about it. As the Foreign Minister – or who else was now – said, the flashlight is being directed towards the country. There's a possibility, a potential, but we don't have to be fooled – that it just happens automatically. I just want to finish by saying that I think it is important that many people here have pointed out that human rights issues in Russia must be high on the agenda. It has to be done by everyone. An example, briefly: I met former chess world champion Anatoli Karpov, when I was Minister of Environmental Protection. I'm going to confirm that some of the motivation was to play a game of chess against him. It was the Tromsø Olympic Committee that invited me. Carpow's on the Environment and Energy Committee in the Duma, so it wasn't stupid. I enjoy the opportunity to discuss it calmly and objectively, try to explain why Norway and other countries are so busy with those questions. Just to take advantage of all the chances of getting their point of view in a factual way that is met with respect, I think will be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e538	I would like to join in the range of those who have stated that this has been a good and nuanced debate, and also thank you to the interpellant, Solhjell, who gave us the opportunity to discuss the human rights situation in our neighbouring country Russia in a broad way. There is no doubt that more attention has been paid to the situation of civil society in Russia, and also to the situation of sexual minorities, in preparation for the OL. What I agree with Mr Solhjell's representative is that it remains to be seen what this situation will be like after the OL. I'm worried that some of the signals that are now sent out before the OL, will not necessarily continue after the OL. It'll be a big lacmus test. As I also said at the outset, the government is concerned about developments related to legislation affecting freedom of expression and assembly – especially in civil society – and minorities in Russia, indigenous peoples and sexual minorities. We will always discuss this in conversations with our Russian partners. It is important in those conversations that this is taken up in such a way that it is listened to, that we do it seriously, thoroughly, and that it results. Ta-up diplomacy and cross-off have a certain effect, of course, but the most important thing is when one also feels in Russia that our strong commitment is at the best for the cooperation between our two countries. We are well received in Russia. That's what we're going to use as an opening to address difficult questions. Between people who cooperate well, it is possible to address issues that are of great importance and may also be perceived as difficult. I just want to say, to the representative Nybakk, that if there are any violations or incidents under the Sochi-OL that violate what we think are important principles of human rights – freedom of assembly and freedom of expression – we will say from. To the question from the representative of Navarsete on these issues – in the extension of the meeting I had with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov before the OL – will also be addressed under the OL: we want political meetings even during this sporting event to travel the broad agenda, including human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e553	I would also like to thank you for a good debate and again thank you interpellant for raising the question and putting it on the agenda. It's incredibly important. The debate also shows that there is a broad consensus on the importance of this topic, and not least that we share the common concerns we have about the human rights situation in Russia. It is important for me to stress that Norway is carrying out a broad and comprehensive work not only at authority — as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said — but also at organisational level to promote human rights and strengthen civil society in Russia. We will also continue our strong commitment, not least after the Olympic fire has been extinguished in Sochi. I think it's very important to stress that we don't think the job is done when you're done there. As for the comment of the representative of the Liv Signe Navarsete on the IOC, I agree that it is difficult to control them, to say that, but I think it is very important that we participate in the public debate. We have ample opportunity – as today – to be involved in influencing the values we focus on. I'm very pleased – I feel the need to emphasize it again – the Sports Association and the work they do, not only in Norway by focusing on these things and taking this with the value base seriously, but also through their involvement in various international sports forums. They also contribute to a positive impact on key value issues not only in other national sports organisations but not least in international sports organisations. As I said, we are working at meetings and will, of course, address the human rights situation in the meetings we have to attend. I also feel a very strong need to stress that during the Olympics too we will be of the opinion that Russia needs to strengthen the work on the human rights situation in that country. We've said that before the Olympics, and we're going to be sure to say it after the Olympics, but I also want to stress that there must be a very clear message under the Olympics. I also very much agree with the Sports Association that the practitioners should be able to express themselves freely, engage in discussions and point out violations of human rights. And as I said, IOC President Thomas Bach has stated that athletes are free to make protests and political statements in connection with press conferences under the Olympics. There should be no doubt that we will also strengthen contact with the Sports Association and stand loaded and broken with the sportsmen and cheer on them, not only when they are going to do their sports performance, of course. We also want to make sure that they are given the opportunity to express their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e570	Then the matter is no. 1 and 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e586	The direct starting point for my question to the Minister of Finance is the conclusions of the so-called Holden III Committee, which was presented last November. The committee was set up by the Stoltenberg Government, with the task of assessing the experience of wage formation over the twelve years since the introduction of the monetary policy action and inflation target. The committee was also asked to discuss macroeconomic developments that could create challenges for the Norwegian economy and wage formation in the future. The committee's conclusions are interesting for several reasons, and let me mention two of them. Firstly, that the sample represents the broad range of interests in Norwegian working life, with leading economists from all main organisations on the employers’ and employees’ side of the private and public sector. When such a representative sample ends up in agreement with the main conclusions, this is important. And secondly, to the substance – that the sample agrees on the following: ‘The cooperation in income policy between the social partners and the authorities and the high level of coordination in wage formation have contributed to a good development in Norway with high value creation, low unemployment, a level playing field in income distribution and a consistently high level of real wage growth.’ In this quote there are some important characteristics of what we can call the Norwegian and Nordic models. The quotation refers to income policy cooperation and points to the existence of high coordination of wage formation and beneficial results for people and society through low unemployment, small differences and high real wage growth. I ask the question to the finance minister because she was scarce in the comment when Professor Holden presented the report of the sample and because on previous occasions she has voiced strongly critically about the organisation of what we can call the Norwegian model, a term she believes on a general basis stands in the way of the Norwegian people and the Norwegian reason. In the case of principles of wage formation, the Progress Party's principal programme: «Work, pay and employment contracts work best if they are achieved by agreement between the employees and employers of individual enterprises.» And on the other hand, «By way of business settlement, wages and salaries will be more adapted to the performance of enterprises and lead to a better risk-sharing between labour and capital.» This is an objective contrary to the functioning of the Norwegian labour market. Vice-Chancellor Roger Bjørnstad wrote in Today's Business last week: ‘International comparisons show that the Nordic labour market regulation of the labour market, and in particular Norway, provides the most flexibility at social level. [[...]] Hardly any other country can cope with employment in Norway when it comes to tackling sudden changes in the economy or the framework conditions for the rest. ‘... Bjørnstad underlines the importance of the collective agreement: ‘During the financial crisis, we saw that companies with collective bargaining agreements were able to adapt their workforce rapidly to changing market conditions, as stated. Swallows and others [[2013]] Bjørnstad believes that in terms of flexibility in working life, collective agreements represent the solution, not the problem. In view of this, it may be useful to clarify the views of the Minister of Finance on these issues when she is speaking on behalf of the Norwegian Government today. The question also points further. It is common to describe the Norwegian model by three pillars: good, responsible economic governance, public well-being funded as a split layer through taxes, and a well-organised working life. It is the interaction between these three policy areas that is crucial – that one takes the signal from the other, that action in one area builds up under action on another. Overall, this social organisation has made it clear that few others have the power to combine growth, work, efficiency and distribution. It brings us to today's theme and underlines that the Norwegian and Nordic models are more than welfare and tax. An organised working life is a foundation for well-being, employment, adaptability and cohesion in society. In the world around us, this social organization meets with increasing interest, not as an ideological embrace, but because this social organization produces results. For example, The Economist, who can hardly be called a spokesman for social democracy policy, writes: «The next supermodel». The theme today is the 'well organized work' pillar. I ask the question because the political right-hand side of Norway and Europe likes to play down the importance of orderly working life when they talk about the organisation of society. They often resort to a kind of theoretical approach in which work should be traded in a market as any other commodity. The message is that you can have both good economic policy and well-being for everyone, but at the same time a strong liberalisation of working life. There is an error ending. The contrast of countries further south of Europe with fragmented and less representative organisations is evident. These countries experience more conflicts, less migration, increasing differences and poorer results for the majority of people. The presence of strong collective actors who are representative and ready to take on broad social responsibility is a major resource for the Norwegian community. Over many decades, agreements and traditions have been built to deal with both cooperation and conflict. Fafo researchers describe the development of what they call the conflict partnership, where the parties have confidence in each other and have learned to know each other well enough to deal with the conflicts that may arise in an organised working life. Such stable conditions depend on heavy and representative organisations on the part of workers, such as: is responsible for coordinating central wage and salary settlements. Representativeness is also essential on the employer’s side. In Norway, the relationship between the LO and the NHO has been robust and adaptable in a highly changing economic and social context. The parties have called for important wage formation schemes. One such scheme is the leading trade model, which means that the growth of wages in the sector exposed to international competition must reflect the growth of prices and productivity in this sector. The growth of earnings in the competitive sector must then be regarded as a norm for other wage growth in the economy. Several institutions, organisations and mechanisms contribute to the coordination of Norwegian wage formation, both internally and between different organisations, through legislation and through consensus building. No model of society is stoned. It must be capable of adaptation and development. The Norwegian model has shown this ability. But as always – it can go quickly to break down something that is built up over time. It is therefore important to listen to the Minister of Finance and the government’s assessments. Does the Minister of Finance agree with the main conclusions of the Holden III Committee, where a unanimous selection concludes that income policy cooperation between the social partners and the government and a high level of coordination of wage formation have contributed to a good development in Norway with high value creation, low unemployment, even distribution of income and consistently high real wage growth? Or does she want a different course and organisation to achieve better results in society? – If so, in what direction does she want to go? What will she have less of, and what does she want more of? The formation of wages and salaries is a responsibility of the social partners. But for the parties, it is important what underpins the direction of economic policy, which is the responsibility of the political authorities. How does the Minister of Finance see that the government should contribute to the best possible acceptance of the responsibilities of the social partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e635	The Right-wing Party government has said that it will maintain income policy cooperation with the social partners. At the same time, we have to be aware that there is a clear division of responsibilities. The wage negotiations are the responsibility of the parties. It also means that the parties must take responsibility for finding negotiated solutions. Wages and salaries in Norway are characterised by extensive coordination in settlements. The Government wishes to assist by facilitating dialogue between the parties and between the parties and the authorities, inter alia: The Contact Committee and the Technical Calculation Committee for the statement of income. While the parties are responsible for wage negotiations, government and growth can contribute to an economic policy that facilitates good resource use and productivity growth. It provides the best basis for safe jobs and good wage developments in the years to come. Compared to many other countries, Norway has had good economic development over the past two decades. However, we are facing significant challenges. In the budget proposal from last autumn, we pointed to a number of issues that require particular attention in economic policy work: While productivity growth has remained well up through the 1990s and up to the mid-1990s, it has been weak in recent years. Although this is a move we also find in some other countries, it is worrying about future developments in income and wealth. In the long term, productivity growth in the mainland economy is the main determinant of the welfare development in Norway. The rise in the price of oil has given rise to increased activity on the Norwegian base. It has contributed to the growth of the mainland economy, both through higher demand for goods and services from the petroleum industry and as a result of increased use of oil revenues from the State budget. At the same time, Norwegian households have had a growth in real wages, which has been clearly higher than the growth in productivity, and far above what we have seen in other countries. The strong real wage growth is in contrast to the rapid increase in the cost of business. According to figures from the Technical Calculation Committee on Income Balances, hourly labour costs in industry were much higher in Norway than in our trading partners, also higher than in rich developed countries such as Sweden and Germany. If Norwegian companies are to maintain profitability, they must be more productive than their competitors abroad or produce products traded at higher prices. This makes the situation difficult for undertakings competing in export markets. It also makes Norwegian companies very vulnerable, not least in the event of a fall in the oil price. In addition to the smart use of labour to raise productivity, we also need to make sure that those who can work get the opportunity to do so. Occupational activity in Norway is high, although participation in our home population has fallen slightly in the years since 2009. While participation in employment in Norway is high, sick leave is higher than in most comparable countries, and many are out of work as a result of disability. Reducing these proportions is a key challenge. I also hope that the parties have a positive and constructive attitude to the need for action here. The government has begun to address the challenges. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the Right Party government signalled that we will lower taxes and distort costs against investment in knowledge and infrastructure. The Government's changes to the 2014 budget were some first important steps in this direction. The government has announced that we will bet on knowledge and innovation. We are setting down a productivity commission to get advice on how to increase productivity growth. We will also facilitate a flexible labour market and critically assess what is needed to increase the supply of work. It is our responsibility to contribute to the continued positive development of the Norwegian economy. The government shall do its job. Wages and salaries are the responsibility of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e665	With respect to reporting, I felt that the Minister of Finance did not answer the questions about her view of what the Holden investigation showed, and the answer may have to be interpreted in such a way that she agrees with what comes to the conclusion. I would like to follow up on a theme that concerns the organisation and interests of the Minister of Finance, because it affects working life and productivity. Norway is at the top of productivity growth in the OECD and has 20-30 pst. higher productivity in industry than in Sweden and Denmark. Nevertheless, we should be concerned with strengthening society's productivity, as the Stollenberg government's perspective report highlighted. We look with interest until the Council of State puts down, and I hope the composition becomes wide, so that we get a broad assessment of this complex and important issue. When productivity growth in the last few years has been less strong than in the past, it is due to several factors, such as the fact that Norwegian enterprises were reluctant to cut off employees in the context of the financial crisis. Another explanation pointed out by the Statistical Centre and the Holden Committee is related to the strong growth in low-paid labour migration from 2004. Research shows that the shift to more labour intensive production based on low-paid labour rents can lead some industries to move towards low-productive, labour-intensive production, as we have seen in parts of the construction industry. In other words, there is a connection between working for high productivity and ensuring a broad agreement with a solid payroll floor. It raises the question of what measures we can take against so-called low-wage competition. The Holden Committee points to the scheme of publication of minimum wage provisions, such as: was an objective of the Stoltenberg Government Action Plans against social dumping. I have heard in the past that the Council of State and the Advance Party have been strongly opposed to public disclosure and many of the enforcement measures related to it. Later, we have heard a somewhat softer attitude, so it might be interesting to hear how the Minister of Finance thinks about counteracting increased low-wage competition as a possible measure to counteract impaired productivity development in business. As the Holden Committee has reflected on this, I assume that the new Commission headed by Professor Rattsø will also look at this topic, as regards productivity in our vulnerable business. However, as I said, the views of the Council of State on public disclosure and on the enforcement measures related to it and the actions launched in the action plans on social dumping will be of interest in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e680	This is a debate that can cover a lot of issues in itself, but let me start by saying that I have pointed out that it is the government's stated aim to continue a good dialogue with the social partners. We have confirmed this both in the Sundvolden Declaration and in the additional proposition that was made before the Stortinget last autumn. This is important in order to contribute to a common understanding of the challenges we face. Together with the parties, the government wants to work for a future-oriented working life, where high productivity and high well-being among employees go hand in hand. Then there's a lot of questions that it's natural to discuss, not least some of those that the interpellant has traveled here today. Wide participation in the labour market is a prerequisite for ensuring the individual’s well-being. Participation strengthens the dignity and connection of the individual to the community. At the same time, we are laying the foundations for the growth that we will all live on in the future. Creating a well-functioning labour market is a good welfare policy, as this government sees it. The Prime Minister has invited the parties to a meeting of the Contact Committee on 10 February, and we consider such an exchange of views to be useful and necessary for a good, common understanding of the challenges we face. So I noticed that Gahr Støre now believes to have all the explanations of the fall in productivity growth in the Norwegian economy over the last eight years. I think it's a little premature to draw those conclusions now, and that's one of the reasons why the government is setting down the productivity commission. This is in order to assess what has caused us to see a fall in productivity growth in Norway. At the same time, we have also had a long period of considerable droughts of reform. That is why I also invite this Commission not only to provide an analysis of the causes of the fall in productivity growth, but also to look at and invite to a wide public debate on what measures and instruments should be implemented, precisely to ensure that we have good, predictable economic development in Norway and secure stable jobs. But then we also have to take a few debates related to both how we have set up the labour market, how we have arranged different parts of the tool use, how the tax system works to influence this, and whether it is at all possible to make changes to the whole of the public tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e689	Finance Minister Jensen said that it is up to us all to take responsibility for the Norwegian economy. And being a member of a trade union or a main association, such as LO, is taking a personal responsibility to contribute to a stable and well-functioning working life and to the well-functioning economy of the country. The members personally pay several thousand dollars in the quota this year. They keep the floor up in the workplace, they keep pay levels up for everyone – not just for themselves, they give power to the requirements of the fight against social dumping and the way into a negative pay spiral for ordinary people in Norway. The Holden Committee also points out that a high level of organisation is important. LO's members and others don't just benefit themselves from the efforts they make, without the members of LO and the other main associations, we wouldn't have the stability and the distribution of benefits that society has today. Without people actually organizing themselves, we had not had the tripartite cooperation that Jensen refers to, and the country's economy had a completely different premise. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen could have better responded to Gahr Støre's challenge when it came to the professional organisations and their importance and the importance of tripartite cooperation. She could also have better boasted some of these organizations. As Minister of Finance, she will be happy that the organized trade union movement exists, now that the wage settlement is about to begin. For the development of the Norwegian economy and payroll, there are no two separate happenings or ‘events’. There are things that affect each other. It is not that the parties can take responsibility for one, and the government can take responsibility for something else. These are two things that happen in close interaction. She will also be particularly pleased to have LO there, which can take responsibility for a joint settlement and a pay policy that does not threaten the krone price or the competitive industry: an overall trade movement that takes responsibility for the whole of society, and not only organises major strikes individually or stops work at work overnight. The existence of the third party is an important prerequisite for the proper functioning of tripartite cooperation: the trade unions. In many other countries, it is precisely this term that is absent. It is important that it is representative, that it is organised, and that it has credibility in its own ranks. The government has said that it will continue the trade union deduction at today's level, and it's positive and slightly different tones than what we might have heard from the Progress Party and Siv Jensen in the past. But there will nevertheless be a need to increase the deductions in the coming year and to ensure that the members, who take this personal responsibility for the Norwegian economy, continue to have support from the government and the state in their organisation. Another thing that worries me, which also the representative Gahr Støre was in on, is that the Progress Party writes in its program: «By way of business settlement, wages and salaries will be more adapted to the performance of enterprises and lead to a better risk-sharing between labour and capital.» Then it's worth noting that even in an interview with the Evening Post on December 3rd last year, Holden said: ‘An important challenge is that a large part of wage growth occurs locally and is not known when the other settlements are to be implemented.’ It is therefore contrary to the recommendations of the Progress Party. It would be interesting to hear if Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, had any other thoughts about this than the party leader, Siv Jensen, did when the program was written. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen also pointed out that it is important that the parties take responsibility for the salary settlement as a whole. Another thing is the concern for social dumping. Holden says that action against social dumping will be very important, and then I'm worried that we haven't found out whether the government will continue the union's right to collective action at illegal rent. What will the government do to facilitate the publication of collective bargaining agreements, as we know is an important instrument? If we are to be able to prevent further falls in productivity growth, we need to get skilled workers with predictability and who can work for a salary that can be enjoyed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e712	The interpellant agrees that income policy cooperation, the leading trade model and wage formation coordination contribute to high value creation, low unemployment, even distribution of income and high real wage growth. It is difficult to disagree, and the government has been quite clear – it is only to read the Health Declaration – that it will work for a well-functioning tripartite cooperation, as the Minister of Finance has pointed out, for high productivity, for high well-being among workers and to ensure a well-organised working life. But there is no model, no system alone, that creates economic growth and continues to sustain the welfare community. I have to say that I react when one makes this a debate about just being a trade union, not least when the representative Wickholm in the post says that in the trade union you take personal responsibility. Every day in this country, hundreds of thousands of people, organized and unorganized, in tens of thousands of companies, organised or unorganized, work to help keep the welfare community alive. Don't they take personal responsibility? In fact, I find it unheard of to insinuate something else, because there are challenges beyond tripartite cooperation in the Norwegian economy to increase growth, increase value creation and, not least, improved productivity. That is the political responsibility of every government. I hope that the interpellant expands its model thinking beyond what he describes, also to include creating opportunities for increased value creation for an overall business life through the policy framework conditions. We're not going to get away from it when we're going to discuss the organized working life. The organisation of work also depends on economic growth, and it cannot contribute to tripartite cooperation alone. They make an excellent contribution, we want to keep it, but it's also the way the interpellant pointed out, that the world is actually changing. More flexibility is required; a different way of life is required. Therefore, the Norwegian model and the Norwegian welfare society are not only about wage fixing and employee rights. It is not least about competitiveness in the future, and productivity is at the heart of it. There, the representative Gahr Støre shares responsibility for the fact that growth has fallen over recent years. It makes us less competitive than we were. Nor can we discuss the Norwegian welfare society without assuming that we have been lucky. There is nothing wrong with getting a lot, most of all for that matter, but it obliges us to take care of the values, it obliges us to improve competitiveness all the time. That is why the government must be at the forefront of this, and that is why the search light we have put on productivity growth is very central. It was absent from the previous government. This means that we need to facilitate transitions, for flexibility in the workplace, for new technologies. We need to look at increasing the appropriations for research, development, not least getting more back on the investments made. And then we have to simplify the business environment, and not least simplify the business meeting with the public. Many good decisions over time have given us a good starting point. But let us not close our eyes because the world is changing, because competition is getting tougher, and because we have to make political measures that improve competitiveness and increase productivity, because internationally, there is a lot going on in this area. I don't think politicians and no political parties should claim any patents on the welfare community. There isn't one model. It is the sum of tripartite cooperation, but it is also largely a question of whether economic policy is at all times adapted to yesterday's challenges or tomorrow's challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e730	As the Minister of Finance stressed, the government will maintain income policy cooperation with the social partners. The parties are responsible for wage negotiations, but government and growth can also contribute to a positive economic policy. The government has started tax and tax havens that improve the efficiency and productivity of the economy. Simplification and red tape are also important contributions there. Infrastructure and rational investment will also help to improve the efficiency and productivity of the economy. As everyone knows, the level of pay in Norway is much higher and much higher than in most of our neighbouring countries. Of course, there's something we should be proud of, and we have to make it possible for it to continue in the future. Then it's important that we don't have any worse framework conditions in other areas when it's in force, for example. taxes, taxes, red tape, infrastructure, etc. than what our competitors have. To put it another way: if you want to run 100 meters, you can't set up a backpack on your back if your competitors don't. I am therefore proud that we now have a government that put this on the agenda by cutting taxes and taxes, so that one becomes more competitive. One has seen red tape and simplification on the agenda, so that resources are managed where they are useful, and that businesses, individuals and the public sector do not need to spend large resources on unnecessary red tape and form fields, and we have a record investment in infrastructure that will, of course, make us more competitive. It is important – in addition to focusing on knowledge – to maintain competitiveness. The government has also led a policy that has made the krone price more competitive in the last time than he was under the previous government. All these contributions will provide the basis for the competitiveness of business in the future, to withstand a high wage level, and to ensure good wage settlements for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e743	The way we do things in Norway is a political community. Throughout history, all parties have contributed to the development of what is a Norwegian political tradition, for political traditions cannot be created alone – traditions are being worked together in the future, communities are interacting and Norway is no exception. So I'm not saying that there's never been any disagreements, because disagreements are good. Disunity is crucial in a democracy. Democracy is competition for ideas, where good ideas are developed and strengthened through joint efforts. Income policy cooperation is one of the great strengths of our society, and the very basis for it is trust, that wage and income statements are the responsibility of the parties. We have from some previous attempts to create a debate on trust. Well, the Norwegian confidence that we see through the way we deal with these kinds of questions in Norway shows us that it is going to be more than a government shift or trying to question the political intentions of other parties to rock the trust society that Norway actually is. Norway is doing pretty well, but we have some challenges, and we have heard about some of the challenges today. The representative Gahr Støre points out that the productivity level in Norway is 20 pst. above the OECD average, but at the same time the wage level – Norwegian wages and salaries – is 70 pst. above the average in just OECD and 30 pst. over our neighbouring country in the Nordic region. Workplaces are becoming increasingly dependent on the petroleum sector, and high oil prices contribute to a two-fold increase in the Norwegian economy. We have a low leave, but let's not forget that we have a youth unemployment rate that is three times higher than the total unemployment rate for the rest, and an employment rate for young people who have fallen 5 percentage points in recent years. The government's policy is comprehensive, and the slogan rhetoric with which one is met daily from the other side of the political spectrum does not take it into account. But both the economic policy of the government and the desire to realise the knowledge society of the government are important contributions to address the challenges we face. Party cooperation is an important part of the Norwegian way of doing things. So I don't think the only blessing is being organized, but we see a development among the organized as I think it's important to address in a public debate. It is not that political decisions can solve this, but it is nevertheless a development that is worth paying attention to: fewer want to be elected to the trade unions. According to the YS Labour Barometer, 45 pst. that union work takes too much time, and 30 pst. they are not interested in union work. There are probably many explanations as to why this is so, but at least I don't think that creating the starting point for political debate based on groundless polarizations as to how we want this country to be contributes positively in this way, to say it carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e760	I have looked forward to this interpellation debate and have to note that the Minister of Finance Jensen did not respond at all to the interpellation, which was about the Norwegian model and about the assessment of the Norwegian model by the Holden III Committee. We all remember, in connection with the national meeting of the Progress Party last year, that party leader Jensen said ten times in his national meeting that the Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people. It provides a basis for the question that the interpellant has raised. It was also interesting to hear the questions that party leader Jensen was exposed to afterwards by both radio and television, where it was obvious that party leader Jensen could not explain what the Norwegian model is. Unlike the Right, which has a completely different strategy, which is trying to redefine the story that the Right has been part of the development of the Norwegian model, even in those areas where there has been great political disagreement. There is no doubt that a lot has become a joint owner since then, but there are some elements in the Norwegian model, as the representative Gahr Støre emphasised, which it is important to bring with him. So it rests on three central pillars. One is the economic model: a responsible economic policy, one – today we can only say relatively – high levels of taxation. It's asking who we're comparing to. It is not least an active counter-cyclical policy, which we saw in 2008 and 2009, when we met the financial crisis – which hit Norway like all other countries – in a different way from other countries, putting the groups that first became unemployed into work. It is a welfare policy that is perhaps the most sought after internationally. Some even call the Norwegian model of the Norwegian welfare model – which is one of the elements. The fact that we all have the same opportunity to go to the same school, the same possibilities for offering from the same public health care system, and not least the changes that have taken place in kindergarten policy in recent years, where everyone can now have a children's garden space at the maximum price, are elements that contribute to the entire model. It is the model of cooperation, which is about tripartite cooperation, with all the different organisations on the employer's side and the employee's side that do not only contribute to the formation of wages, which does not only contribute to the development of working conditions through, for example: The Labour Environment Act, but which was also a significant contributor to the process of reforming the pension system in Norway without the major protests and demonstrations we have seen in other countries, precisely because the parties were active participants in an important social process. Then I hear that Finance Minister Jensen is now quite right to say that wage formation is a relationship between the parties. But the Progress Party and party leader Jensen have said a lot more in the past. That's why it's interesting that it's now being fixed. However, this does not prevent a person from having a social attitude towards wage formation, for example. the fact that we have central settlement has made a significant contribution to at least two things, yes many things. In some situations it has allowed for a moderation line that has been important for the country, but it has also contributed to equal pay for equal work across the country, and it has helped to reduce the pay gap in Norway than in other countries. In this respect, both the Progress Party and the Right have previously expressed a little bit of concern about the compressed wage structure in Norway. But that means that we have little difference in wages in Norway, which is a result of the elements of the Norwegian model, which are essential for the society we have today. So it's also the way that the cooperation model has given us productivity growth, because the sum of all the three elements that are related gives us that. Unlike the liberal economists believe, it is that safe people are dry. The involvement of employees in business conversion processes provides security, including for those who lose work due to rationalisation, because we have public instruments such as unemployment benefits and means of conversion, which in total give us an economic ability to adapt, which gives us good financial results. Finally, I would like to ask: is it good for Norway that we have an organized working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e780	The finance minister spent half the time speaking. I think she left out the half where she was going to answer the question. We have had a good debate on economic and industrial policy. It's interesting, and there's a lot to agree on there, but there was no answer to the questions that this debate was about, namely some of the characteristics of the way Norwegian working life works. To the representative Heggelund: I have not tried to create polarization between anyone. I have tried to ask questions about what it is useful to clarify as a result of the Holden III investigation – what social and labour organisations have said about these key issues. So I just want from this pulpit to kill what the position is now trying to create the impression: that you haven't been interested in productivity in the last few years. Looking at statistics, Norway is at the top of productivity growth. It was the Stoltenberg government that raised the productivity issue in the broad outline in the perspective communication and pointed out that we have to work systematically with productivity to defend our high welfare level in the future. That is why I welcome the fact that this government is now setting up a productivity commission. I hope the mandate and the composition is wide enough to give a good explanation of that question. But then the Minister of Finance says that you have to dry up some debates, and I fully agree with that. Therefore, it surprises me that she does not dare take the debate she is invited to in this room. We would like to discuss the debates she invites on the labour market, on instruments, on the tax system, but here we have to conclude that, in the Minister of Finance's claim that she supports the income policy cooperation – that was the most precise thing I heard, also from the representative of the fleet – I think we need to add that a high degree of coordination in wage formation – that was my question – is that business settlement is not an adequate alternative to the coordinated settlements, that we support the publication of minimum wage provisions. I asked that question exactly. I did not get an answer to that. It has opportunities for the Minister of Finance to respond now — and whether she sees a link between high productivity and a work contract with a solid wage floor. That's what the question in the interpellation was about. Then I'm willing to take all the other debates on economic policy that we have the chance to, both in this room and elsewhere in the social debate. But now it was an attempt to take one part of what is the characteristic of the Norwegian model, namely the social partners, the cooperation, the characteristics and the core values of it. So I have to interpret it so that when we have an interpellation in the Great Britain where we don't get a response, it's an attempt to push that theme forward, and we're left to guess at and conclude what the attitude is. I think that's an interesting signal on this important field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e795	I must be allowed to say that I think parts of this debate have been somewhat sought after, because I answered the questions raised by the interpellation, by pointing out that this government wants to maintain income policy cooperation. But I approximated the entire interpellation debate with some slightly larger and more long-term challenges, and I did just that because this is where we need to focus. So it's quite right, as Jonas Gahr Støre says, that the perspective report gave some analyses of potential challenges for the Norwegian economy in the long term. What was not included — in the perspective communication or in the subsequent issues — was the measures to meet these long-term challenges. And that's exactly the debate this government is inviting to take. Then I have to say that I think it's going to be very special – and that's how it's been through a lot of different debates, both in this room, in election campaigns and in other arenas – that when someone wants to go up a substantive, thorough debate on the challenges of today's working life and point to the need for more flexibility, this is not met by a substantive debate on instruments and changes based on the needs of employees; it is met with a claim of brutalisation. When some of us want to raise a debate on competition and diversity, there will be allegations of privatisation – as if there is a problem that we have more players in a market. On the contrary, competition appears to be the best in all markets in the interests of consumers. And when we discuss a debate on taxes, competitiveness and robust jobs, the claim of tax relief is met with those who have the most from before. Then the debate area gets very tight. I think it is important to discuss the long-term challenges we face, based on some basic driving rules that this government has agreed to. I believe that the three pillars, which the representative Dag Terje Andersen also brought up, are not at issue. This government is running a responsible economic policy, but that doesn't mean we're going to keep the high tax level that the red-green government had. We think it's wrong. Then go to the other arrow. We are also too good welfare measures in Norway, and many of them are mutually agreed upon, and there is a fundamental consensus that they should be tax financed. The third pillar is party cooperation. This government has laid the foundations for its platform. And that's what I started this interpellation by saying, that the government is going to end up about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e808	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e824	As the President just referred to, this interpellation concerns the question of how we can and should improve security and preparedness in the Oslo Earth Tunnel. It could also deal with other tunnels and major installations, both public and private. The reason for this interpellation on the safety of the Oslofjord tunnel, which with its 7.3 km is the longest road tunnel in Akershus and Buskerud, is the following: In 2011, there were two fires in the Oslofjord tunnel. In March of that year, a wagon train took fire at the bottom of the tunnel, which is 134 m below the sea surface. In June the same year, it happened again, when it took a guy in a car train with a return paper. 34 people were inside the tunnel, and some had to have help getting out. Since then there have been several events, since the day before this interpellation was delivered. The volume of traffic in the tunnel is large. Every day passes between 6000 and 8,000 vehicles, slightly depending on when in the year it is. Many of them are heavy vehicles. We have seen that too many of the heavy-duty vehicles are in poor technical condition. When the serious incidents occurred in 2011, there was already a risk and vulnerability analysis for the tunnel. However, the Fire Service chose to review it again because they considered the existing ROS analysis not good enough. In the new analysis, they made two important conclusions: Existing extinguishing capacity was too small – only half of the fire service considered necessary to meet the need for a larger fire inside the tunnel – and they also lacked the necessary evacuation equipment. I have been told that ordinary smoke diving equipment is intended for fire in buildings where smoke divers can quickly enter and stay in approx. 20 minutes before they have to withdraw again. In addition, it is limited how many times one and the same smoke dips can enter before they have to be replaced by another. In the Oslo Earth Tunnel, three fire services are responsible for evacuation through each of their side tunnels: Søndre Follo, Søken and Hurum. However, in the event of a fire in the middle of a 7,3 km tunnel, it is not even certain that, in the course of the measured 20 minutes, smoke divers will reach the point of fire and those who will have to be evacuated before the smoke divers will have to exit again. Fire protection in road tunnels in operation is regulated by the Fire and Explosion Protection Act. Longer road tunnels will normally be special fire objects. According to the law, the municipality is responsible for so-called supervision. The supervision shall cover all aspects relevant to fire safety, including structural, technical, equipment and organisational fire safety measures, fire control and other rescue operations. In addition, the municipality shall ensure the establishment and operation of a fire service capable of carrying out preventive and emergency tasks. Furthermore, the law requires the owner to provide the necessary safeguards to prevent and control fire, explosion and other accidents. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness states on its websites: ‘Fire in a road tunnel will be a challenge both for those on the road and for the rescue team, because escape can be difficult, if not impossible, as a result of heat and smoke. It could also be problematic for the rescue team to come to the fire place to make efforts for the same reason. Therefore, a detailed legislation is in place to both prevent fire and facilitate safe escape and rescue operations.» In line with this legislation, the Fire Service in Søndre Follo, based on the new ROS analysis, imposed on the Road Administration, as owner of the Oslo Earth Tunnel, to acquire a fire truck with sufficient extinguishing capacity and three evacuation packages, one for each fire service. The car cost approx. Five million. kr. Evacuation packages cost NOK 300 000–400000 each, a total cost of SEK 6 million. kr, plus-minus. However, the directive was contested by the Vegvesen and the Road Directorate. The Road Administration was then assisted by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. That's where the rationale for this interpolation lies. This is hard to understand. The result of this whole process was that the three fire services received one rescue package on the split, which they could choose where to place. It must be reasonably good to predict in order to carry out a qualified guess of where the need for this rescue package will be greatest – on one side or on the other side of the fjord – when the next event comes. We can hope it doesn't happen again, but the probability of that is probably relatively small. If you need additional extinguishing capacity, you are referred to driving a car from Rygge Airport, but after what I have been able to find out, the response time from Rygge is approx. One hour, including the time it takes to charge the car, which must be done via the police. It could be too late. After the two fires in 2011, some protective measures have been implemented, including: there is now an evacuation room with air for a few hours. But what happens to the people in these rooms if a fire develops too much before you get the necessary extinguishing equipment in place, and you can't send in rescue crews? In retrospect, the State Committee on Transport has assessed the situation of the two fires. In their report, they say, among other things: the vehicle train fire in the Oslofjord Tunnel on 23 June 2011 had a calculated fire effect on almost twice the fire-fighting equipment for which it is dimensioned. It corresponds well with the fire service's own analysis, which was the basis for the imposition of new equipment. However, the Harvari Commission says that the maximum fire power of vehicle train fires can be as high as three times the extinguishing capacity of the tunnel today. In addition, they say that long and steep single-loop tunnels place great demands on fire crews and tunnel safety equipment, and that this, and not the dimensioning requirements for the tunnel class alone, should be the starting point for what is required of equipment and standby. The Disaster Commission recommends that the State Road Service, together with the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the Fire Service, follow up and dimension the rescue and fire-fighting operations according to actual fire effects and the design of the specific tunnel. The fire department has done its part of the job, but has not yet been listened to by either tunnel owners or general fire protection authorities. The size has dealt with this issue once before, albeit indirectly. On 18 June last year we discussed a case of extended toll collection on Rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox The progress party then voted against tolls, but at the same time proposed, as one of several minority proposals, that money for a fire car be given over the state budget. It only got the votes of the Progress Party. I'm going to be the first to admit that exactly the proposal that applied to the fire engine went under my radar. But at the election campaign opening in Buskerud, Morten Wold, now a big representative from Buskerud and the Progress Party, had a show about buying a special fire truck to increase preparedness in the Oslofjord tunnel, as recommended by Søndre Follo Brannvesen IKS. We in the Buskerud Labour Party supported this proposal. I don't think we've ever received so much attention about anything in a campaign before as when we went out and gave our full support to a performance from Buskerud FrP. We would like to contribute to this matter being resolved. Now there's still going to be tolls on rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox We therefore have a proposal for a solution to this matter that it may be possible to agree to. In that case, toll collection on rv. 23 the then majority parties commented as follows: ‘In the view of the majority, it will be necessary to use some of the funds required for road safety measures along existing rvs. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox ‘... So it opens here to use some toll crowns for security measures. It should also be possible to include safety measures in the form of mobile life-saving appliances. A quick check with the toll company shows that with today’s traffic figures, an extension of the one-week toll period will be enough to finance both the fire truck and the three rescue packages. I am aware that it is not permissible to make suggestions in an interpellation, but to make good representations to the government is allowed. That's why the idea is over. I'm very excited about how the council will respond to the recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e862	Let me first thank the representative Christoffersen for promoting this interpellation. Fire in tunnels can have serious consequences, and it is important that the fire safety and preparedness of the tunnels are good. Let me also stress that the fire service in Norway is a municipal responsibility, which the interpellant was also involved in. The representative, Christoffersen, asks the question whether, by virtue of my responsibility for coordinating social security and preparedness, I will take the initiative to implement a directive on the acquisition of a fire engine with increased extinguishing capacity and three evacuation packages for use in the Oslo Earth Tunnel. In this respect, I would like to recall, as the interpellant also pointed out, that in 2012 several representatives of the Progress Party asked a number of questions in writing to the Government at that time – the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Justice and Defence – about, among other things. readiness in the Oslofjord tunnel and Søndre Follo Brannvesen IKS’ wish for a larger fire truck. There was no indication in the answers from the working part government that it was relevant to provide a new fire engine for the fire service. The Progress Party also promoted, as the interpellant stressed, its own proposal to grant money in June 2013, but the Stortinget opposed that proposal, including the interpellant's party. Under the second paragraph of Section 14 of the Fire and Explosion Protection Act, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness may impose on the owner of tunnels: «which is considered to constitute an exceptional risk within the municipality, to establish its own fire and accident preparedness, or to cost and maintain the necessary upgrading of the municipal fire service». The Directorate shall take any instructions under this provision in the light of a fire service risk assessment and an opinion of the tunnel owner. Following the fires in the Oslo Earth Tunnel in 2011, Søndre Follo Brannvesen carried out a risk assessment and concluded that the fire service needed around 6 million special equipment. kr. In January 2012, Sdr. Follo Brannvesen IKS addressed the State Road Administration, which owns the Oslo Earth Tunnel, and asked to cover this investment. The State Road Administration refused to cover the investment of 6 million. NOK, but agreed to pay for some rescue and emergency equipment. This equipment for approx. 450 000 kroner was handed over to Hurum Fire Service in November 2013. The fire service was then provided with a specially adapted car, so-called UTV, with a stretcher solution, a life hanger with a breathing air bottle, a suitable transport hanger and an infrared camera with hazard identification technology. The Fire Service's demand for an increased extinguishing capacity was rejected by the State Road Administration, as mentioned by the representative Christoffersen. In May 2012, Søndre Follo Brannvesen IKS addressed the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness and requested the Directorate of the State Road Service to establish its own fire and accident preparedness in the Oslo Earth Tunnel or to pay the necessary special equipment for the local fire service. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness compared the safety measures of the tunnel with the total resources of Søndre Follo Brannvesen IKS and surrounding fire services and concluded that there was no exceptional risk to the upgrading of the fire service. As a result, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness did not take decisions on injunctions in the case. It means strictly that there is no directive that I can take the initiative to implement today. Having said that, I would like to stress that I am aware of the great discussion we have had over time about what preparedness we are going to have and which can be expected in our tunnels. In order to clarify the expected level of emergency in tunnels, a working group consisting of representatives of the State Road Administration, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the Fire Service was set up in 2012. The purpose of the working group was, inter alia, to: provide guidance on the relevant equipment for preparedness and assess the need for changes in legislation or practice. The work was due to be completed in the summer of 2013. However, the working group that worked on this wanted to await the report of the State's accident commission on transport after the fires in the Oslofjord tunnel in 2011. The group also wanted to see if it was possible to draw experience from the fire in the Gudvanga tunnel in August 2013. The attitude of the working group has now been handed over to the Road Directorate, who, after I have been informed, will deal with the matter in the near future. I am also aware that, in addition to describing the level of equipment that is desirable, the working group points to the importance of increased competence. With regard to the build-up of competences, I can inform you that in March and April, the State Road Administration and the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness will conduct five regional seminars on rescue operations in tunnels. The seminars are aimed at tunnel owners, fire and rescue services, the 110-centrals, the police and the State. The seminar addresses the themes of experience with road tunnel fires, safety management measures, strategy for preparedness, response and rescue in road tunnel fires, subsidies to fire services and interaction between actors. The seminars are a follow-up to the report of the State Maritime Commission for Transport on the fires of a wagon train in the Oslofjord Tunnel 2011. Furthermore, in an opinion to the Ministry of Transport on the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Road Safety Authority points out that all safety recommendations concern the matters referred to in the Tunnel Safety Regulation. The Road Safety Authority also informs that in 2014, they will open regulatory proceedings to see how the State Road Safety Authority follows up the Tunnel Safety Regulation in practice. At the same time, I would like to stress from this speaker that the safety advice contained in the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has not yet been finalised by the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Justice and Defence received the so-called Fire Study in December. It is a report from a working group chaired by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, which has investigated how best to make best use of the overall resources of the fire and rescue services and in so far as they interact with other response actors. The Working Group believes that regional or national emergency response mechanisms should be established for rare and demanding tasks. In addition, the Working Party considers that for some prevention tasks there is a need to build regional centres of excellence that should play a national advisory role. Subsea tunnels are referred to as one area where there may be a need for both a national emergency response system and the establishment of acute prevention competence. The fire study is currently out for wide consultation and it is important that we are aware of all relevant points of view when the study is to be treated. The government will place great emphasis on listening to those who work in the fire and rescue services, in the further work to get the best possible use of resources. Finally, I would like to point out that the State Road Administration has implemented a number of measures in the Oslo soil tunnel after the fire in June 2011, among others. measures for faster and more effective rescue operations. After I was informed, these measures were not taken when Søndre Follo Brannvesen IKS carried out its risk assessment. We have, as mentioned, a number of reports of treatment dealing with tunnel safety. The further management of these reports will clarify whether there is a need for an upgrade of the fire service or for further action also in the Oslofjord tunnel. For the sake of order, I also point out that my lack of ability to impose the purchase of a fire truck does not prevent the state road service from contributing to such an investment of its own will. That question, however, is not under my constitutional responsibility. Nor does it raise the issue of extended toll collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e895	I will first be allowed to thank the Council of State for the answer. That was a thorough and informative answer. I expect the Council of State is not surprised when I say that I am not quite satisfied with the answer. I should have liked to have bought that fire truck tomorrow. Especially considering that we're taking in somewhere between 9 and 14 million. kr per month in tolls, it should be possible to initiate, as far as possible, a discussion of a new practice by incorporating the necessary equipment for preparedness and rescue work into the costs of a project. In existing projects where tolls are still required, one has a means of financing. But I see some light at the end of the tunnel, because there's a work going on, there's started assessments that might lead to a different conclusion. I just hope it doesn't take so long that we're once again seeing an incident in which we might be a little short when it comes to the necessary equipment to turn off and rescue people trapped in such a tragic tunnel fire. The Councils of State mentioned inter alia: regional centres of excellence and establishment thereof. I think it's very nice that someone gets that kind of competence. But the day it burns, it's just the fire car and the fire service and their life-saving equipment that apply. I noticed that the Council of State said that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness has said that there is no extraordinary risk in the Oslo Earth Tunnel. Now, I guess it was an assessment that was made before the Commission's report was available. I'm just a layman when it comes to reading those kinds of reports, but I can't interpret the conclusions of the Harvari Commission other than that they say that the preparedness in the Oslofjord tunnel is too bad. We have some standards that don't keep track of a tunnel that is of the nature of the Oslofjord tunnel. And when the Disarmament Commission also says that the extinguishing capacity only covers one third of that one could risk meeting in a tunnel fire, even more than what the Fire Service itself has done, I hope that it can form the basis for new assessments. I also notice that the Council of State says that it does not belong to his domain to be able to impose the use of tolls to purchase equipment, and that some of these questions are sorted under the Ministry of Transport. But now it is the case that the Minister of Emergency Response has a responsibility for coordination between different departments, so it could perhaps be an entry point for speeding up this debate also in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e908	Finally, I think I'm going to say that if I had taken advantage of the opportunity to impose the use of tolls in a certain way in order to secure certain sections of road sections, there are probably more people who would have reacted that I took responsibility for coordination somewhat far from what is the starting point of the Royal Resolution. But I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Transport has also noticed this interpellation and the debate that we have now started. Then I understand that the representative Christoffersen is not quite satisfied, because she would like to buy a fire truck tomorrow. That fire truck could have been purchased two years ago. So if you had the same impatience for a while back, there would be opportunities to find other ways of handling it to secure that fire truck, if that's what's important. What has been my starting point for this is that I have to deal with the professional advice that I get from the directorate, who here believes that there is no extraordinary risk. It is initially the local fire department, owned by the municipalities, that is responsible for ensuring that local preparedness is good enough in relation to the risk in the municipality concerned. It is only in exceptional cases that you can make use of this facility. It has often been used in areas where there is very little fire service, while the tunnels in relation to the other risks in the municipality pose a significantly increased risk. So, as I mentioned, the evaluation of the directorate is professionally justified. I am also a layperson in this field and have no basis for reviewing the professional judgement of the directorate in this matter. Then I also believe that I gave good reason for the light in the tunnel to which the representative referred, namely that we are now reviewing the studies that we have, and that could lead to a change in rules or practices in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e921	I would like to start by saying that I myself have been a fireman and a call-out manager in a part-time corps in Hemnes. We had the same discussions there. There we have a large tunnel, the Korg Mountain Tunnel, which is a one-pass tunnel on the E6 at 8.5 km. There was the same discussion about the emergency solution and safety when it was to be put into operation. Fortunately, it hasn't been the major accidents so far, but we all know that it can happen at any time, both here and in the other thousand tunnels that we have in the country. The worst scenario is fire in a vehicle train in these long tunnels. It's not at least a fireman's nightmare. As a fireman, you are prepared to do what you can to save both life and material. However, you should not expose yourself or others to any further damage or danger. That is why I am pleased that the interpellant, Lise Christoffersen, addresses this issue today. This applies, as I said, to many places in Norway, and it is not given that you have a well-equipped fire department where you are going to build these tunnels or where you have them today. We all hope that we find solutions. The State's Transport Disaster Commission made a report, which is also referred to in the debate here today, after the fire in the Oslo Earth Tunnel, which was issued in October 2013. Through this study, the Commission has identified five important safety issues that have contributed to weakening the systemic safety of the Oslo soil tunnel, which led to road users being caught in the smoke – and I would like to quote: ‘The safety level of the Oslofd tunnel through standby and safety equipment was not adequately aligned with traffic growth and composition. The fire and rescue preparedness of the Oslo soil tunnel was not dimensioned, equipped or organised in relation to what can be expected as regards the location and size of fires in the tunnel. There is insufficient evidence for the use of longitudinal ventilation in tunnel fires and how evacuation is to be carried out when the tunnel is filled with smoke. The self-rescue requirements were not adequately met through the safety equipment and emergency solution of the Oslofjord Tunnel. The safety management of the Oslofjord tunnel by the state road authority had not captured the risk profile in question and the risk-based approach to safety and preparedness was inadequate.» The fire in the Oslo soil tunnel, and some later the fire in the Gudvanga tunnel, testifies to a catastrophic potential in heavy-duty vehicle fires in long one-way tunnels, followed by smoke. In the light of this study, I am concerned that the fire risk in single-loop tunnels meets with priorities that only ensure the minimum level of safety. This is where we get to the core of the matter with regard to equipment and equipment. It should be such that the risk profile of such specific tunnels takes into account what can happen and that from that point of view, equipment is being upgraded at the local fire services, but not as today, that it is being done at a minimum level. Then I register that you say that you do not have the opening to go in and join in such upgrading of equipment. In any case, it does not fully harmonize with ‘guidelines for the management and maintenance of fire and electricity safety in road tunnels’, such as the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, the State Road Service and the Road Directorate issued in 2011, for it states in Chapter 6, ‘ Tunnel operation’, 6.2, ‘Contribution to local tunnel fire services’, ‘To set up its own fire and accident preparedness, or to cost and maintain the necessary upgrading of municipal fire services’. If you read that, it should be unproblematic to be part of the equipment requirement that you see in this case. It is clear that measures should be taken in the future to provide the necessary means for local fire services to be invested near these risk tunnels in the necessary equipment and training to deal with such situations better than is the case today. I believe that, in the future, the costs have to be taken to a level above the minimum level of safety, so that equipment and training in the construction of such tunnels are satisfactory. In addition, a system of renewal of the equipment must be in place once this has expired. So I challenge the Minister: if it is now the case that the legislation needs to be amended, will the Minister agree to look at the possibility of adapting the legislation so as to increase the funding for fire preparedness in Norwegian tunnels?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e963	We all know that fire in road tunnels can have dramatic consequences, and in this way it is important that the interpellant has addressed this issue. The sub-Oslofjorden tunnel is a 7,3 km sub-sea tunnel, which should have a proper level of fire and rescue. But in this case, there are different opinions among the experts about what is actually an acceptable level of fire and preparedness for that type of tunnel. What is gratifying is that after the fire several measures have been taken, including: is the built evacuation room available within a maximum radius of 125 m and the speed of the tunnel is also reduced. This is done in recognition of the fact that this type of tunnel, which is a single tunnel under water, must have adequate emergency and safety conditions. The State Disaster Commission is to be taken seriously for transport recommendations. They come with four safety recommendations that you should go into and see if there are things that you should go on – and you have already done that. But I would warn against extending the toll collection by tunnels in general, even when the purposes may be well justified. It can open up a practice that can be creative – probably creative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e972	First, I would like to thank my colleague at the Buskerendbenken, the representative Lise Christoffersen, for raising an important question. Fire safety in the Oslo Earth Tunnel has been debated in this room earlier and has been properly reported in the media. Today we are talking again about the special fire truck that is strongly wanted to improve the safety of the tunnel. I dare remember that it is not more than seven and a half months since all the other parties in this room voted down the present proposal of the Progress Party to acquire such, which the interpellant also mentioned. Of course, it would have been desirable for such a fire truck to have already been in place, but there are several reasons why it is not. As the Council of State correctly pointed out in its reply, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has brought together the safety measures of the tunnel with the overall resources of Søndre Follo Fire Services and the surrounding fire services. The Directorate concluded that there was no exceptional risk that the fire service had to be upgraded. Thus, the Directorate did not take an order in the case, which in turn means that there is still no requirement or requirement that the Council of State may take the initiative to implement. This does not mean, however, that you do not have ambitions to do so or that you do not want to comply with a future directive. This is also a matter of transport solutions, not just security. From a transport point of view, it is a well-known matter that a crossroads of Oslofjord, for example from Hurum to Drøbak, will be the best solution for the future. It has also been established that the operating costs of a bridge will be much lower than the construction of a new underwater tunnel. With a new bridge, heavy transport, which constitutes the greatest danger in the tunnel due to steep up and down and hot running in brakes, resulting in fire, can be moved from deep below the water table to high above it, and into a bridge that will become a landmark and a tourist attraction in itself. Parts of passenger car traffic will still be able to walk in the tunnel, but much safer than before, when heavy transport is gone. With a bridge solution, you can connect to the railway and secure a ring road that allows for the rapid transport of many people from Hurumland to Oslo. The Hurumland is a built-in inner file, and the municipality is prepared for great growth in the future. A ring road connected to a bridge will be environmentally sound, reduce travel time to the capital area and provide large growth opportunities and new housing. Back to the question of a fire truck in today's tunnel, which is a relevant question. So there is no requirement or requirement for such a purchase, but there is an undeniable fact that users of the tunnel will feel like an extra security on the day of such purchase, even though a number of measures have already been implemented after the fire in the tunnel in 2011. A careful review of the reports referred to by the Council of State and their follow-up is a priority of the government. Of course, it is a goal that everyone should feel safe as they travel in the Oslofjord tunnel. So maybe several of us go a few rounds with ourselves about whether the solution is to charge tolls for a few more weeks, as the interpellant suggests as a solution. I'm not quite sure it's the right, the safe way, but I'm taking the interpellant's proposal for further assessment. I do because we don't have any lives to lose either in the Oslofjord tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e996	I would first of all like to thank Lise Christoffersen for an important interpellation. The Oslo Earth Tunnel is said to be Norway's most dangerous tunnel, and as a traffic year it is a tragedy. It is unsafe in operation, too steep and at the top of tunnel fire statistics. In the Oslo Earth Tunnel, as far as I'm concerned, there have been seven fires and three fires in just four years. The 2011 fire could have ended in a disaster. Only luck made no one die. In 2011 — i.e. in one year — the Oslofjord tunnel was closed 350 times because of minor accidents or operational problems. Based on what I understand, the tunnel is built in violation of the EU Tunnel Safety Directive. It is so steep that many truck drivers hesitate to drive through it. They fear engine and brake hot passages, and in the event of accidents, the risk of serious fires is very high. At the same time, the Oslofjord tunnel is central to the entire eastern region. It swallows significant parts of freight traffic from the continent to the south and west. Alternative transport routes are scarce, except for car ferries at Moss. In Oslo, the road capacity is already detonated. In addition, the fight against harmful air pollution is high. That is why the state has spent 50 million dollars since last year's fire. kr in the tunnel to address some of the safety issues, but everything is certainly not exactly as it should have been. The responsible chief of fire for the tunnel has both warned of weak ventilation systems and wished for better fire-fighting equipment and a total ban on heavy-duty vehicles. None of these parts have been passed. In any case, the safeguard measures cannot compensate for the serious deficiencies of the Oslofjord tunnel. The first tunnel was apparently also built against the Vegvesen's own professional council. A new parallel tunnel run will be able to address some of the challenges of today’s tunnel through better escape routes and re-routing possibilities. In addition, this is a solution that can be finished when the current one-ring solution can no longer be used. At the same time: this will not be an adequate solution for crossing the Oslo soil. The challenge that needs to be addressed is whether a new tunnel could possibly have the same challenges as the old one — and thus not meet current or future needs. A bridge across the Oslofjorden further south can create an overall transport capability across the Oslofjorden for the strongly increasing population we expect for the next 20 years. It will be able to accommodate all types of traffic — cars, bicycles, pedestrians and not least railways — and may take over from the Moss-Horten ferry service, relieve Oslo for heavy vehicles and short journey times between the East and the South and West. I thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important matter. It's going to be very exciting to follow what the conceptual studies say when they get here. That the work on this becomes important in the future, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1013	I have been listening to the debate and I have been thinking: how difficult can it be? So we're talking about a fire truck. Then you can ask the question: A fire truck is probably not something that the Storting should discuss either. The reason why the question is now brought to the Storting is that it has aroused considerable commitment on both sides of the fjord. There is a lot of local involvement, a lot of newspaper writing and many of the political parties locally have engaged in the matter – and of course also the local fire department. When we hear the answer from the Minister of Justice – with all kinds of directorates and departments, and now the Stortinget – what it has cost to write answers and keep correspondence, almost as much as a fire truck will cost in acquisition. I'm really asking questions about what's the problem of acquiring that fire truck. It is possible that a fire truck is not legally required, but I think there will be unison agreement that the standby will be better with a fire car than without a fire car. And that's not what we're talking about. The Oslo soil compound is an important highway linking the west side and the east side of the Oslo soil together, and a highway with significant traffic volumes. I'm actually asking the question again, what's the problem? Are the authorities afraid of precedent? In that case, I have a little bit of an understanding of it. Is one then afraid that fire trucks must be acquired for a number of other local fire services where there are road tunnels? If you're afraid of it, there's also an interesting debate, because there might be an indication that there should be better fire protection elsewhere. Again: Why this resistance to arranging with that fire truck? The Minister of Justice said there is no order. No, we've registered it, and the answer was probably as far as expected. I have to add and admit that it was the same answer that we also received from the government with other party constellations. But it doesn't really help with the situation. There is still no fire truck, as a local – and not least Southern Follo fire service – wants. I must also say that I am a little surprised at the answer from the Minister of Justice, because he makes it like he and the Stortinget can't fix it with that fire truck. It's kind of easy to understand, because, as I said before, the Storting cannot treat all the fire trucks around in all of Norway's fire services. But it is only eight months since the Progress Party made proposals in the Grand Duchy. I'll just quote the introduction to that proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide funds for equipment and industrial fire trucks for Søndre Follo fire services.’ So wasn't it possible to do what the Progress Party claimed eight months ago? Is the answer from the Minister of Justice so as to understand that one of the governments has no opportunity to acquire that fire truck? It might have been interesting to go further on whether the toll company can sort this out, because in the large context, for a toll company that requires revenues in the order of magnitude of the Oslofjord link, it is relatively modest. Can the toll company arrange for this, grant the necessary funds and arrange for the purchase of a fire truck – of course by money collected as a toll. I would also like to say to Abid Raja that I think that we from Stortinget's pulpit should be careful about exaggerating the problem. We also have a responsibility not to scare people. It is clear that the Oslofjord link – the Oslofjord tunnel – is a safe tunnel. If something happens that doesn't make it safe to run through the tunnel, it shuts down. Fortunately, we have authorities that look after and ensure that such things are in place. I just want to say that it's been about the proposition about tolls that were being treated in Stortinget last year, i.e. When Stortinget decided to extend the collection of tolls related to the Oslofjord link. There has been an indication of a debate on a new connection: a new tunnel or a new bridge. I just want to say that in Stortinget – as in the proposal on tolls – it has been decided to extend the toll collection for financing a new tunnel run. So it's not possible to use these funds for other road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1044	The Minister of Justice and Security points to the local fire department on several occasions. I had almost said that I am the local fire department. I am the rapporteur in the recipient municipality on the east side, Frogn municipality, and I am the head of the representation. I've been for a year. My view of the situation is that it is generally difficult to dimension for the extreme. The last fire was quite extreme. It was paper from the South Cell, and it gives a heat that's all the other way around. It's hard, and you don't have any equipment at all to take that fire. Now South Cell's closed, paper cars don't go into the tunnel anymore. My assessment is that DSB's assessment is very good. Let me add that in the work that is now going on, there is a work being initiated by the County Council in Akershus and Oslo – including Eastfold – where eleven municipalities from Oslo and southward along the E6 look together at a larger unit. There is a quite unique work, eleven municipalities in all, and there is no doubt that with the future plans also run two, which ensures the Oslofjord tunnel further – if it comes. What's definitely coming is the Follo tunnel. These are very special requirements. There will most likely be a tunnel under Moss, and perhaps under the fjord in Moss, and it will still fire crew and standby on completely different tests. We're preparing to do that, and we're ready to do that. It's, as I said, the local fire department that's doing it. But for the time being, I believe that the DSB solution is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1055	Thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate. It helps to ensure that an important matter is given greater attention than it would if the Council of State and the undersigned had been here alone. There's a lot of sensible things that have been said, and I'm not going to repeat all of that. I was just a bit in a hurry over the last post that the situation in the Oslofjord tunnel is different now with the closure of the Södra Cell, because in general, the report of the Havari Commission states that the fire effect of the vehicle train fires is in a voltage up to three times the extinguishing capacity of today's fire service. It is not stated that any reservations have been made as to whether these are combinations of vehicles carrying paper or other cargo. It might also be worse than paper if the accident is first out. I also believe – even if you are for or against tolls – that legitimacy is quite high in order to use a disappearing little part of the toll you charge for rv. 23, for required life-saving appliances. We could test it by taking a survey of those running back and forth in the tunnel: Are you willing to pay tolls for one – three weeks extra to make sure the fire service can come and save you if anything happens? Then I think the answer would have been a pretty unisony yes. We have talked about this in previous debates, and I also remember the debate following the decision of the Gjørv Commission; there was first and foremost criticism of the lack of cooperation on cross-sectoral preparedness. What I think the Gjørv Commission was less good at was the importance and importance of municipal preparedness. I myself have been the rapporteur and have experienced both the tunnel fire and the bomb explosion, and I have seen self-esteem how important it is to have an upward fire service equipped for the situations you are facing. Swearing Myrli was concerned about what it is that one is afraid to say yes and ready-to-go to a fire truck in the Oslofjord tunnel – is it because one is afraid of the infection effect? One has a thousand tunnels of varying length and quality around the country on the way – one also has railway tunnels – and I have even heard my own fire boss tell what could happen in the Lierå tunnel if he had to hold his crew back and couldn't send them in. It's made a pretty deep impression on me. I hope that's not the fear that it can get a contagion effect and become very expensive in the long run, which means that one is now such a detention at the directorate level. At the same time, I think perhaps the debate testifies to the fact that we, regardless of the political colour, are sometimes given a little checkmate by the bureaucracy. I wish we could get together to do something about it, so that we can find a solution to this without going beyond anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1070	Finally, I don't think it's bureaucracy that's the challenge, it's probably the political governance that we actually have. To blame the bureaucrats for the systems we adopt politically is really an exaggeration. But I would also like to thank you for a good debate and for the contributions that have been made. I thought it was an interesting coincidence that the local fire service was present in the Chamber during the debate – it is reassuring that they are present in the areas where that kind of thing is being debated. I have to say that I am happy that you focused on the importance of seeing the total picture – that is, seeing the total force that you can mobilize in different events. That's important, and we're going to keep going. I must also acknowledge that I have listened quite curiously to the intervention by the representative Myrlis. It was a fundamental lack of understanding of the sharing of responsibilities in these kinds of issues. As I had in my answer – and as far as the interpellant has been clear – it is to ensure a municipal responsibility for fire protection. Then, of course, it does not help for a municipal fire department to want a new fire truck, and then the Storting will decide that the fire truck will come. Of course, Stortinget can do that, even though the representative Myrli thought I had indicated something else. There is no problem for the Storting to decide that, irrespective of the professional assessment, money should be given to purchase such a fire truck. This could be done in June – then you had the opportunity to do it – but that didn't want the Storting to do it. The government has to deal with that. But when it comes to supposing that one is now a little curious that this is so difficult to achieve: it is no more difficult now than it was when the representative Myrlis party was in government. It's exactly the same challenges and opportunities as it was then. However, I did not hear the kind of posts from either the representative Myrli or others who were representatives of the government parties at that time. I'm concerned that we're going to take tunnel safety seriously. We need to make sure that the systems we have are working. But then we must also have confidence that the legislation this house has set the authorities to manage is good enough. It's probably not always, and that's why we're going through this to see if it's potential for improvement. However, the absence of the exceptional risk necessary to impose object ownership investments in the type of security measures should be sufficient to ensure that the tunnel currently has at least the standard that this house has foreseen. So we're going to follow this carefully along many channels. Finally, I would also like to clarify, even though it is outside my constitutional responsibility: extending the foundation or starting point for toll financing in a discussion that I believe will be a complete derailment. Object owners are responsible for such costs when there is a basis for imposing investments. It has not been in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1087	Then there's case no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1101	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1110	Prop. 161 L for 2012–2013 contains proposals for changes in the laws of nature and wildlife. These changes concern measures for the safe and humane pursuit of hunting, the use of artificial light in the search for infested deer, in the killing of captive game and in the event of an attack, and the use of motorboats in the search of the infested seabird. The proposal is a follow-up to a working group position that was handed over to the Directorate for Nature Management in the spring of 2011. The Committee would also point out that changes in the wild clauses 20 and 21 are to be understood in such a way that hunters are subject to a probationary obligation in order to avoid abuse of the new provisions. In addition, it is proposed that Section 15 of the Act prohibiting the unnecessary hunting of wild animals in the event of natural disasters. A ban on hunting used to exist in wildlife, but fell away by an incursion when the laws of nature were passed. Nevertheless, the Committee would stress that the prohibition against hunting game must not prevent the practice of hunting dogs or the use of dogs during hunting. There is broad consensus that the use of artificial light will help to speed up the location of damaged game so that one can carry out a rapid and effective killing. These are also the intentions behind the permission to search for a damaged seabird by boat. All of these proposals are based on the need to maintain the necessary animal welfare, which is important in order for hunting to continue to have a good and broad societal agenda, as he has today. Hunting for birds and game is one of the most widely used outdoor activities we have and are positive in many ways, and the proposals in today's proposition will help to strengthen the legitimacy of hunting in a society where larger and larger parts of the population are promoted for this type of activity. Therefore, the best possible animal welfare in pursuit of it is superior and important. Finally, I would recommend the setting from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1127	In Norway, we have chosen to protect our game because we want to take care of the diversity of species and our unique Norwegian nature, while at the same time opening up to hunting in regulated forms, because it is putting our nature into practice, and it is open-air interests. But it should be strict as to who is allowed to hunt, when you are allowed to hunt, and what it is allowed to hunt, because we are to take care of nature, take into account safety and take into account animal welfare. I believe that in this way we have found the good balance between protection and use of nature, and we have built up good art in Norway, where the hunters have shown great responsibility and where we have largely few conflicts in this area. In the Labour Party, we are committed to maintaining strict legislation, because it has proved to work well and because it has broad support in all the environments in question. We're making some changes to the game law today. We believe that the changes we are about to adopt today help to strengthen animal welfare and make hunting even more humane. These are changes such as: Immersion organisations have long wanted, and that was the background for the red-green government to put down a job to make these changes. All parties have been consulted, and consultations show that the then Environment Minister, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, proposed broad support in most environments. In the Labour Party, we are at least pleased that the new majority and the new government have maintained the proposals and that they are supported by all parties. The use of artificial lights for the search and killing and use of motorboats for the search of shot seabirds helps to increase animal welfare. It prevents animals from suffering, and it helps to make hunting more humane. But it must be restrictive, because hunting must be as natural as possible. That's why it's right, and it's important that the burden of proof lies with the hunter. It is the hunter's responsibility to ensure that the legislation is not abused, and therefore the hunter himself must notify this in advance, before the use of light starts. Otherwise, in practice, it will be impossible to prove that the system is not abused. The only times it is allowed to do this after using light is if it will significantly delay the process, because of course it does not benefit animal welfare. Today we are correcting a previous defect in the Nature Diversity Act, because it is established today that hunting for peace will not be allowed. It should not be allowed to train a dog to hunt for a bear. It has never been intended to open up, but in the case of a previous amendment of the law, this has nevertheless been the result, and we have several judges who have shown just this weakness in the law. That is why the Workers' Party is pleased that we are now also involved in correcting this error by further strengthening the Natural Diversity Act. We have a well-organized hunting team in Norway. We have found the good balance between use and protection, leisure and natural diversity, and that it is under safe conditions where animal welfare is taken into account. Norwegian hunters deserve recognition for having good ethics, and it is a great responsibility for hunters in the future to take care of it. The Labour Party believes that the changes we are making today are part of increasing the possibility of doing so; the hunters are given more tools, but at the same time they are more responsible for making natural hunting as humane as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1146	Section 19 of the Game Act specifies what is a good moral code: ‘ Hunting and fishing shall be carried out in such a way as not to cause undue suffering to the wild and in such a way that there is no danger to man or domestic animals or damage to property.’;» Most of us have heard the song of Øystein Sunde in which he describes how the father in the trampoline sneaks forward with Mouser and hail and Smith & Wesson and ends up shooting a silver grey carriage Deluxe Special. Unfortunately, it seems like someone thinks today's hunters are a little bit like the Sunde so picturesquely describes it. My opinion is that this in no way describes today's hunting status in Norway. One thing is the general requirements for the hunting exercise, something else is the genuine desire of hunters to carry out the hunting in a way that is to the minimum burden for the game. Damage shooting will always occur, but there's something a serious hunter for everything in the world trying to avoid. Therefore, a quick and effective launch of the search is something that is highly prioritised among the hunters I am talking to. The proposal currently under consideration by the Stortinget addresses changes in the law on natural diversity and the law on wildlife and concerns measures for the pursuit of hunting in a humane and safe manner. It has been on a broad consultation round, with many responses, with the large majority supporting the proposals presented to the European Parliament today. This has also been confirmed in conversations and meetings we have had with, among others. Norway's League of Hunters and Fishermen. I was going to go into some of the proposals that are available, and start with the use of artificial light. Section 20 of the Wilds Act states that the use of artificial light in jackets is prohibited. This includes today the hunt for passover game, which is defined as part of the practice itself. Right-wing believes it is right and reasonable to open artificial light in the search of Easter deer game. The majority of the working group, as well as the majority of the hearing bodies, also agree to this. The use of artificial light will lead to a faster locating and killing of damaged game. It is also reasonable that a duty to notify the police, the municipality and the hunting court is required before the investigation is initiated, if this cannot significantly delay the search. Another use of artificial light is the killing of animals caught alive in traps. Today’s ban is an unintended consequence of a general ban on artificial light, and all hearing bodies support an exception. Some also want to include mink, fret and moon dog that is chased into a hi or under a rock. It is proposed that this should be regulated in a separate regulation, which is a sensible approach to the right. Nothing can or should be determined by law. Regulations have the advantage of being able to address the issues in more detail, and consultation processes will also address the need for recording and corrections. Artificial light under attack on reefs is also proposed to be modified by removing the condition that it is ‘fixed on the house wall’ and replacing it by ‘fixed’. I have to admit that for someone who is not a hunter himself, it seems right to change a decree that hunting should only be conducted around the walls of the house of people. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the search of Easter seabird. Today it is not permitted to hunt – and therefore also search – from a boat with an engine more than 2 kilometres from land, caverns and prunes. Once again, this is a question of animal welfare – I imagine hunters in strong currents and winds lingering around in a rowboat to try to find a damaged bird. In view of animal welfare, it seems more reasonable to use a motorboat with a speed limitation of 5 knots, as proposed. Some have expressed some concern about possible abuse, but here the Right is clear that it should of course be trusted that serious hunters follow the law in this area, as they do in other areas. The right is in favour of the reasonable changes and clarifications of the legal status of both the law of the wild and the law of the natural diversity, which are being dealt with in the Storting today. We also follow the comments of the broad majority in the Committee on the matter and the unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1169	It is rare that we deal with matters in Stortinget with as broad a consensus as we do in this matter – at least in this committee. This is good, and here there is no reason for disagreement. The changes we are dealing with today are well and thoroughly investigated and have been on the verge of public consultation. In Norway, hunting, killing and fishing are permitted under certain conditions. The starting point is that it may be harvested from herds producing a harvestable surplus. The maintenance of hunting and fishing traditions depends on a broad societal approach. The wildlife law and the Animal Welfare Act provide animals with legal protection against unnecessary suffering, even when animals are to be killed. Hunting poses an undue risk of damage to the game and consequent suffering to the game. Therefore, the care requirement for the hunter is rightly very strict. Paragraph 19 of the Wildlife Act is a legal standard for what is good hunting morality at all times. Paragraph 19 reads as follows: ‘Hunting and fishing shall be carried out in such a way as not to cause undue suffering to the wild and in such a way as not to endanger humans or domestic animals or damage to property.’;» In March 2009, the Directorate for Nature Management set up a working group with a mandate to investigate humane and safe hunting related to various themes, which have been discussed by previous speakers and which is, of course, in the position. I do not want to go into the individual themes and proposals, but I would like to say that the Christian People's Party supports a unanimous assessment and attitude of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1183	It is a fundamental principle that it should be possible to harvest from herds producing a harvestable surplus for the purposes of nourishment and outdoor recreation. At the same time, the maintenance of hunting and fishing traditions depend on a broad societal approach. Hunting poses a certain risk of damaging protection and suffering to the game. The proposed legislative changes are important for the welfare of both animals and society. Access to artificial light during the search for infested deer game and during the killing of live game will help to reduce the suffering of damaged game. The same applies to the proposed access to the powerboat for the purpose of searching for a manicured seabird. At the same time, we maintain the restrictive general starting point for the use of artificial lights and motor vehicles in hunting. Furthermore, the proposal proposes that the Nature Diversity Act should include a ban on unnecessary hunting of wild animals. A ban on hunting was previously found in the Game Act, but it was lost by a mistake when the Nature Diversity Act was adopted in 2009. The proposal reintroduces the previous legal situation. I am pleased that the Committee on Energy and the Environment supports the proposed legislative changes and considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1196	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1202	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1479	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1489	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-04.ana.ud491e1501	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
