ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e86	The representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Godsskesen, Anette Trettebergstien, Kjersti Toppe, Stefan Heggelund and Roy Steffensen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from 27 May until further notice from the representative of Arild Grande on parental leave from 28 May until 3 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Oslo: Peter N. Myhre 27 May and until further notice For Nord-Trøndelag counties: Jorid Holstad Nordmelan 28 May–3. June
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e138	Peter N. Myhre is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e146	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 11, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The reasons for this are consultation in one of the cases to be referred to the Committee. This should be referred before consultation takes place. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e355	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e369	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of six lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e378	I would like to thank the Council of States for a wide-ranging presentation of our opportunities and challenges in European policy. Unfortunately, some of the challenges are a repetition of the presentation last November. First of all, the big picture: most EU countries are in the process of gaining a firmer foundation for the economy to grow again. They have strengthened and deepened cooperation in order to avoid a new financial crisis, for better budgetary control and for stronger governance with financial institutions. They met the crisis with a deepened cooperation. It's worked. But serious consequences of the financial crisis are far from over. There are 24–25 million unemployed, and there are very high youth unemployment rates in several countries. It creates social problems, weakened belief in the future, a bloom of nationalism and calls for protectionism. This was also reflected in the outcome of the European Parliament elections. There is little reason to rejoice that the right extreme forces are on the rise in several countries. A more divided Parliament makes our ability to care for our interests even more demanding. Developments in Ukraine and the tension between Europe and Russia remind us of the importance of the cooperation structures developed in Europe. Without them, the situation could develop much more seriously. Norway has chosen to follow the EU in its action against Russia. The Council of State stressed in the presentation the importance of showing solidarity with our allies in NATO and that we are coordinating with our partners in the EU. I want to add that this does not have to be something that goes on autopilot. The experience with Russia as a neighbour is different among NATO member countries. We can't ignore what serves Norwegian interests, just as little as other countries can ignore what serves them. A recurring and real challenge in our relationship with EU cooperation in recent years has been our ability to adopt new legislation quickly enough. I agree with the Council of States that it is important to ensure a common regulatory framework throughout the internal market. Unfortunately, progress is in the wrong direction. The number of directives waiting to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement has increased. It is slower to implement new legislation in Norwegian legislation after it has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Then it becomes a procurator's trick to produce a third statistic — the fact that Norway is faster than Iceland to give a clear signal to take new legislation into the EEA Agreement. Some of this is due to bureaucratic summer meal. It has to be solved at home. This is due to the EU. This is because of our EFTA partner, Iceland. The EFTA Parliamentary Committee shall endeavour to contribute. At our meeting in Iceland in June, we will discuss the procedures in the various parliaments. In this way, we hope to inspire colleagues to a more political and less technical and detailed review in order to speed up the process. I also hope that the new procedures recently adopted by the EFTA Standing Committee will contribute. But a not insignificant proportion of the remaining directives are due to the unresolved problems surrounding our participation in the new financial agencies, telecoms and the energy agency Acer. Here I could quote myself from the post after the presentation in November, because here there was nothing new from the Council of State. The question is whether it means that the matter has been on site for six months. In the European Commission, the Council of States stated that the objective was to achieve this under the current Commission. That's the hurry. Therefore, we must expect that something more can now be said about whether the government has a solution in sight, and when. The challenges of a solution don't go away if you push them in front of you. And there has to be a solution, because without it there will be a big hole in the EEA Agreement. The whole financial sector remains outside the common regulatory framework. It'll threaten the whole deal. Another growing challenge is the EU’s commitment to developing new regulatory frameworks for policy-making in the broad and cross-cutting fields. Energy and climate policy is a good example. It is in our interest to contribute to a well-functioning European energy market. However, when the EU sets itself policy objectives, such as greenhouse gas emission cuts or increased renewable share in the energy mix, it is the policy objectives that cannot be binding on us. If the EU countries then agree on a burden-sharing approach in order to achieve these common objectives, there can be no obligation under the EEA Agreement to share and share the burden. The instruments adopted by the EU Member States may then be relevant to the EEA, for example. requirements for lower emissions from cars, energy requirements for electrical items, etc. It is good that the Council of State also underlined this in its presentation, for there was reason to worry that a government that started its European policy of wanting to soften Brussels should think differently. A third challenge addressed by the Council of State is the so-called export of social security benefits. The debate is going on in many countries – also under our government. It is important that this debate be conducted on a good, well-thought-out basis – here with us and elsewhere in Europe. If not, it can easily be nurtured by misunderstandings and grumble under political forces that we then had too much welcome in the elections to the European Parliament the other day. Last week's Thursday was 60 years since we removed the borders and created a common labour market in the Nordic region. As early as 1962, we gave our Nordic workers extensive rights from day one. They're treated like us, completely. In the Nordic Council, we provide a selection by selection of tasks to remove frontier barriers, remove everything that creates problems for people who live, work and live across the Nordic region. On average, there have been 100 Swedish parents receiving Norwegian child care in Sweden for the last ten years, without worrying. The council also mentions the daily allowance. These are rights that you process through work. It is – fortunately, I would say – not allowed to discriminate on grounds of nationality. The rules for daily allowances are such that if you are to have a daily allowance in Norway, you have to stay here. You go home, for example. to Poland, you get daily money from Poland. There should be no perception of tramping Europe around in Norwegian daily pay, if you lose your job in Norway. There may be aspects of some of the social benefits that need to be looked at in the light of a common European labour market, but let us not forget the basics: that rights have been acquired by working, one should be entitled to equal treatment is fundamental. It is true, as the Council of State says, that the EEA Agreement does not restrict the rights and opportunities of Norwegian citizens and businesses. It's the opposite. A few years ago, I met an elderly man at the relief center in Fredrikstad. He was going to repair the wife's scooter, before they were going off for a three-month stay in the apartment in Spain. And you know what, he said, down there, we don't pay the favor when we go to the doctor. This is today’s Europe – a Europe that has taken away from what we have enjoyed in the Nordic region for 50–60 years. Let's take care of it. In any case, the main challenge of labour migration is not in the export of social security benefits; it is in danger of social dumping, in order for unprofessional companies to gain foothold and weaken the propensity of Norwegian labour. That should take some time for the Council in its presentation. The EU asks us to contribute funds to the fight against high and severe youth unemployment, as well as to the continuation of the financial contributions to the cohesion of social disparities between new and older Member States. Perhaps the best answer to that challenge is to show that we offer Swedish youth something even better, namely a job – here with us. And we offer tens of thousands of Poles and bear a well-paid job. That's good for them, and that's good for us. I believe that the Council of States has cross-political support here in the United Kingdom to inform the European Union that there must be a limit to how anxious they should be in the demands of our contribution to social cohesion in Europe. We want to contribute, but there has to be a balance in it. Finally, the Council of State uses a rhetorical, well-sounding formulation in several places: ‘The European government’s policy is about the values we believe in, the values we live in, and the friends we depend on.’ I believe our European policy should be about Norway being a constructive contributor to creating a Europe of solidarity and security, in cooperation with neighbouring countries with which we have a community of interests. The primary task of European policy must be to safeguard our interests in this cooperation. It's not just kindness we meet. I recall the dumping allegations against Norwegian salmon production.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e438	State Council Vidar Helgesen started his thorough presentation last week with a look back at our close history: at the events in Europe over the past 25 years. I believe many of us who grew up during the cold war, and who looked at the newscasts and attended the events in November 1989, can answer the question of where we were when the Wall fell, as if on the question of where we were when the Bret broke the staff. It was almost unreal, what happened -- a time separation of dimensions in our common European history. And for a development Europe has lived through the 25 years that have passed! There is a history of democracy, growth and development in many of the countries that were previously trapped behind the Iron Curtain. And Norway has become more closely linked to the EU over 20 years with the EEA Agreement and has become an increasingly large European family. Now the Union is up in 28 Member States. Since 2004, Poland has more than doubled its GDP. Membership has had a formidable social and economic impact. Although the EU has been in a deep wave valley since the financial crisis started in 2008, the Union has continued to attract new states. The importance of an active Norwegian European policy is reinforced in the light of the security policy situation in Europe following Russia’s intervention in Ukraine — the most tense and demanding period since the Cold War, with the EU as a central player both in the admission to and in the solution to Ukraine’s future. This means that security policy has returned to Europe. Evolution shows that we cannot take our democracy for granted, it shows that it is still necessary to call for common values, freedom of expression and the pillars of the rule of law. We must stand up to violations of fundamental principles of international law and above all protect our own strategic interests in the north. Therefore, Norway’s relationship with Europe through the EEA Agreement – the common rules on which the community rests – is also significant in addition to that of access to the European market, for the security and security of the nation. The development of democracy in the EU symbolised by the weekend elections has been subject to a lot of attention, particularly in the light of an emerging crisis of confidence, political disdain and low interest in the even EU electorate. With almost 400 million people in 28 countries, there is an electoral vote of about 43 p.m. disappointingly enough in itself. Now that the election is held and the result is clear, we see that a rainbow of protest parties and extreme parties on the right and left wing in individual countries emerged and hijacked several seats in the European Parliament. Many of them are sceptical about Europe, more about the outside right, and disappointing about countries like France, Denmark and the United Kingdom. It's worrying. But still, the big party groups, EPP with 28 pst. and social democrats and socialist groups with 25 pst. is the largest. Therefore, we hope that these parties will find solutions that prevent the more extreme from gaining influence, so that we can ensure the stability needed in the future governance of the community. Just because Norway’s interests and Norwegian competitiveness depend so much on what is happening in the EU, it is important that we, as a non-member, are active in influencing matters relating to our interests. The revision of the legislation on a differentiated employer fee is a good example of the importance of being early in the process while the legislation is under design and with proper authority in the EU. Here we have to get better. When we want to be more effective in implementing EEA legislation, it is because we want to give Norwegian companies the opportunities to have the same framework conditions as competitors in EU countries. The economy requires faster implementation and implementation of EEA legislation, not specific rules and derogations, but a level playing field. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the government for the offensive to ensure that Norway is active in the arenas available, that we are in the political processes taking place in the EU, at an early stage, to know what is going on, and to influence policy making. In this way, we look forward to the presentation of the government's Europe strategy, which will outline important priorities and instruments, such as early participation, transparency and debate. For transparency and debate on EU issues are important to the government, not least we see it through the way the European Commission is now involved in important issues and ongoing processes. Others from the Right will address several key issues in later articles of today's debate. We are pleased with the government's clear line of negotiations on the level of new EEA funds. The right does not see any clear justification for the EU’s requirement that Norway’s contribution to the EEA should increase significantly, nor that funds should be used outside the established criteria for the EEA funds, as the EU has mentioned. The importance of linking a new agreement on EEA financing to increased access to the sea food market cannot be strongly emphasised and the Minister of Europe has said that Norway will use the time needed to reach a good agreement. Seafood is our second largest export industry, with a significant future potential. In view of the ongoing process between the United States and the EU of establishing a completely new free trade agreement, TTIP, the EU's maritime food trade conditions will be at the heart of Norway. When we know at the same time that 86 pst. of exports going to those markets, we understand why such a trade agreement will be very important to Norway. It is important to follow closely the work, also in the light of the changes that the European elections brought with them, as many of the outermost parts of Europe are now not exactly the supporters of increased market liberalism. The EU is not perfect, but an ever-growing community. The debate on Norway’s relationship with the EU makes it possible for weaknesses such as bureaucracy, detailed regulation and other challenges to overshadow the more positive aspects. Fortunately, we now see signs of improvement in economic development in several EU countries. It is particularly gratifying that countries such as Spain, Italy and Portugal appear to be heading up the wave valley. This could mean brightening the prospects for millions of young people in Europe. Many of them have sought a better future for themselves and theirs in Norway in recent years. Local communities around the country are totally dependent on labour immigration from EEA countries to maintain the population and to ensure value creation in enterprises. Let me tell you a story from my own home country and the municipality of Levanger. Recently, Trønder-Avisa had a big look in which it was called: «The Lithuanians are creating new optimism in Outer Island». The opinions have fought a long and tough fight against depopulation in the last decades. Now the situation has completely changed, and the community is experiencing a population increase of up to 20 pst. The Hjørnestein company Ytterøyling says that they had not had the chance to survive without the work immigration. The company has had a conscious strategy to get a job for both spouses in the company. It gives stability to the workforce and also to the social life of those who come to it. Many young people establish themselves permanently on the island of family and children. Now the municipality prepares new building plots, builds a new kindergarten and expands the school, for 43 pst. of the kindergartens and 25 pst. of schoolchildren now have Lithuanian parents in Outer Island. Through the EU Erasmus programme, the municipality has secured school assistants and kindergarten teachers through exchanges from Lithuania to build cultural bridges. Øya's business and shops are experiencing a new spring. ‘A joyous development’, says Levanger rapporteur Robert Reply to the regional newspaper, and it is easy to agree. Of course, we should be open about the less fortunate outcomes of labour immigration and find solutions to ensure the sustainability of welfare systems. It is therefore reassuring, as the Council of State said in its statement, that the government is reviewing these issues in order to find the right balance between free movement and long-term sustainability. Entitlements earned, such as: pension is fixed, but there is a signal that there may be changes in areas such as child benefit, cash support and daily allowance. Labour migration from the EEA to Norway is high. We are among the countries that, in relation to the population, have accepted most of the labour immigrants. It is estimated that 50 000 in construction, 30 000 in industry, 12 000 in agriculture, plus a large number also in the marine sector, travel and well-being. This is good for Norway. There are far more gains than many of us may reflect on daily. They build our communities, they build our value creation and our well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e468	I want to start by thanking the State Council of Vidar Helgesen for a very good presentation. The government clearly showed that it was serious when it announced a more active European policy. There has been a change of pace in the debate, and I think many people are very pleased, not least in Norwegian business. The framework for European policy is contained in the EEA Agreement, Schengen cooperation and the other agreements with the EU. It is Norway’s way into EU cooperation. The debate today should therefore not be about whether you are in favour of or against Norwegian membership of the EU or whether you like or dislike the project that the EU is. Rather, it should be about how we can become even better at exploiting the space of action ahead of us. If there is an action room, it shall be exploited! It's about being early at the ball, and it's about being forward-looking. It is about keeping a better eye on the change of words in the EU at political level, and it is about being in the debate, rather than constantly following up on ideas or objections in retrospect. An active European policy is about promoting Norwegian interests, and if we are to promote Norwegian interests, we must contribute to the design of common legislation, not waiting for the EU to complete its work until we commit ourselves. Then it's often too late. A few days ago, the European Parliament was elected. The result of the election does not give a clear picture, but that the choice for many was a protest choice and a reaction to something, we can probably conclude quite quickly. The EU's population did not line up just in front of the polling stations. Button 43 pst. the vote was held. It's not much to write home about. The lowest turnout was in Slovakia, which has barely ten years behind it as a member. One would think that the newly registered ones might have been the most eager, but 13 pst. the vote was held. It's completely motivating. It's so low that it hardly gives any legitimacy at all. It's sad. It is also pitiful when nationalist parties from the brown outer edge storm forth, such as the Front National in France, which also has an anti-Semitic history. Every fourth Frenchman voted in favour of the party. The Germans made it all by voting in favour of a representative of the Nazi NPD. It is to laugh, and it must actually be allowed to shed a little tears for Europe at such a time. However, care should be taken to mix all these so-called EU critical parties in one joint assembly, because they are also very different. In my opinion, there is a lot of good EU criticism out there, including: by the British Conservatives or by the Danish Liberal Alliance. We can also interpret what happened in the United Kingdom in a slightly different way. So the EU-critical UKIP came forward, but the election was also a nose-tray for the racists in the British National Party – that’s something. The populist Geert Wilders in the Netherlands also got a nose thief. So in some countries there were some flashes of light. Although I'm concerned when nationalism is spreading in Europe, I'm also very clear that there can actually be something positive out of the election. The alarm messages from part of the EU-critical parties cannot sweep under the carpet, and this may lead to a new debate, which may also affect us here in Norway. In fact, there are challenges related to immigration, bureaucracy, social security exports and economics. Although the problem concerns, for example: social security exports, perhaps appearing to be little in practice, affect people's sense of justice and the leftovers. I am very pleased that the government has said that it is going to work on some solutions to that. The European Parliamentary elections are probably not a reaction to cooperation, but to fusion. The choice is probably also a clear expression that many feel there is too much distance between Brussels and its citizens. Many have also argued that they have regretted the fact that some countries that have managed to manage their economy have to act as bailiffs for those who have not done so wisely. If we pull it a little further, we might even conclude that the European Union can partly blame itself for the situation that has arisen after the elections. It could probably be an expression of both the lack of faith and the lack of confidence in the EU project, and not least a warning that the project has become too comprehensive, too massive and too heavy. Although there has been a slight drop in youth unemployment, it remains record high in many EU countries, and this clearly affects the mood. State Council Vidar Helgesen started his presentation by pointing out that this year 25 years have passed since the fall of the wall in Europe. It's probably one of the greatest events in our time. Next year it is 25 years since the collapse of the Soviet Union and communism. But this year it is also 15 years since the Kosovo war. Next year it is 20 years since the bloodiest of all the wars in the Balkans, the Bosnia-Herzegovina, that ended with the Dayton Agreement. Two of the countries that were part of the old Yugoslavia are now integrated into the EU — Slovenia and Croatia. The others are knocking on the door. Regardless of what is considered to be Norwegian membership of the EU or not, it is important that European integration is allowed to continue in the future. We still need more interconnection, but we need less override. We need integration on the premises of the nation states, and cooperation, not mergers. One of the most important issues in the future, which is of great importance for Norwegian business, is the so-called TTIP. This is about creating the world's largest free trade area. The Council of State pointed out in its statement that 70 pst. Norwegian imports of goods come from the EU and the United States and receive a total of 86 pst. of our exports. It goes without saying that we in Norway must be active in the process around the TTIP, in the most appropriate way. It will have great significance and impact on Norwegian business. I have great faith that the Council of State Helgesen and the government will be ‘on the ball’ in the case of TTIP, or rather also in the case of TTIP. I will end with a few words about something I think was very positive. I am aware that there is some disagreement both in the Chamber and in the government in this area, but I have actually been very pleased with the Court of Justice of the European Union, especially after the Court of Justice of the European Union's conclusion that the Data Storage Directive is contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. That was an important decision. There's one thing that means a lot to many of us. That decision gave me a little extra trust in the system again. It was a happy day, and I hope that the consequences of this in the different Member States are now taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e498	Let me begin by thanking the Minister for a broad and very good report. From our side, we share the main strategy that the Councils drew up. State Council Helgesen has stressed the importance of influencing the decision-making process early, especially in matters of major importance to Norway. There's something that should make a big uproar in Stortinget. All speakers have so far been involved in the elections to the European Parliament in the last few days. This shows that interest among EU citizens is particularly limited. Election attendance was record low, and the results show that different groups with very different views on the further development of the EU were selected. Although this time, too, it is the parties that dominate national policies in the EU countries, which are able to model most of the votes in the EU elections, the European Union-critical, extreme outermost parties in several countries have been greatly welcomed. France is an example of that. In summer, the main impression is that confidence in the EU is low, and that instead of a broad consensus on how the EU should develop further, there are now differences in the view of the Union project and its pervasiveness. Then it says to see what consequences this has for the work and function of the European Parliament. But it's not surprising that it happens. For a long time, polls have shown great frustration over the social consequences of the euro crisis and the policy of tightening up. The result is a tragic unemployment. Although Hansen's representative is quite right that there are improvements in the economy in some countries, unemployment in Greece is now close to 27 p.m. and in Spain 25 pst. The public budget deficit in the EU is now 3.5 p.m. collect the sets. The debt ratio of the eurozone has now risen to a total of 92,6 pst. We hope that the crisis in the eurozone will eventually bring about economic growth that will give people hope that they will come out of the crisis. In a Europe divided into countries with a social crisis and other countries where the economy is doing well, it is important to show solidarity. That's what we do. through EEA funds to countries with difficulty in the EU. At the same time, our European policy must also provide the values underlying our foreign policy, as well as Norwegian interests. The negotiations on Norway’s EEA contribution for the forthcoming agreement period show, as expected, significant contradictions. Commenting on this, the Council of State Helgesen indicated that the EU has now proposed a significant increase in Norwegian contributions and that support should also be able to go to countries that do not qualify for EEA funding. I fully agree with the Council when he states that it cannot be accepted from the Norwegian side. It is also impractical when the EU tries to use agreed tariff-free quotas for fish as a means of pressuring Norway to increase its EEA contribution. The situation reflects enough that the European Commission has not made its own Member States pay as much as you would like to in the EU’s common budget. The EU has decided that the expenditure frame for the EU budget in 2014 should be lower than the budget frame for the previous year. In view of the fact that the EU reduces its own budgetary framework, it is unthinkable that the EU Commission is now proposing a strong increase in contributions from Norway and EFTA countries. In our relationship with the EU, there is much that works well on the basis of the cooperation agreements we have. The entry of Norway into the EU internal market is regulated by the EEA Agreement. It has proved robust for two decades and has worked well and cared for Norwegian interests. In some cases, however, we see that these are challenges. This is the Banking Intake Guarantees Directive, where I would have liked the EU not to have opted for full harmonisation, but instead had seen some minimum requirements. Another example is the dispute over differentiated employer fees as an instrument of district policy, where I would have liked to see a greater freedom of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e517	"They say he drinks jeep, but they don't feed him." When we finally got the Constitution in new Norse, it was well time to get Holberg to ‘sognamaol’ in this room – to rejoice for some and perhaps to insult others, for example. for the representatives of the Conservative Party, to keep us to the party name from 1884. But come back to Jeppe. What does Jeppe have to do with today's text? Well, I think that Jeppe, as a Danish member of the EU, had also in 2014 felt the need to drown their sorrows, much the same as many like-minded people in the EU. Perhaps he had also chosen to be a sitting home on the election day, like the majority of the voters in the EU – all who know that the distance between the most and the elite in Brussels has increased, as the NRK’s correspondent Befring said in his comment yesterday. Perhaps he had also known that many of the small problems that were once national, the towers had become unsurpassed problems in Brussels. They say that people voice right-wing populists at the EU elections, but not why people voice right-wing populists and parties on the far left in politics. Unfortunately, the comments made by many EU experts in this mountain region have been little analytical and partly provocative for all the good forces in the EU who have voted against more union and for greater self-reliance for their own country. They have voted against a development they see asking in the wrong direction, where the EU’s medicine helps to reinforce the economic and social problems in many EU countries. Unfortunately, in some countries the popular uprising has also resulted in an increase in the resolution of parties that gloat under racist and anti-fouling attitudes. The centre party and the organised no-side in Norway have always marked clear and clear distances from such restraints and such batches and movements. Our no to the EU is a yes to democracy, the environment and solidarity. The reason these parties have grown so strongly is that in many countries they have been the only EU-critical voices. People who say no to their elite priorities of financial sector and market thinking over work, house and welfare to people most have the potential to express this. But far from all anti-EU and anti-establishment voices, parties and lists on the outer right wing. Some might say lucky for us. Fortunately, I would like to say to the European Union. In Sweden, the Environment Party made a good choice, and the Left Party made progress. The center made a much better choice than the rest of the city. In Denmark, the centre-left alliance, the People's Movement against the EU made its best choice in 20 years and won its place in Parliament. There are several examples. Participation in elections to the European Parliament has gone down steadily, while the EU institutions in Brussels have gradually gained more power. 43 pst. is the detonation of the bottom level from the previous option, in 2009. It is possible that some of those in the European Parliament feel that they have gained more power, but their constituents feel more and more dismayed. When I heard Mr. Helgesen's words last Tuesday, there were of course some things we agreed on. It is good that the government sets limits on how many billions it is willing to pay the EU for an agreement to be on a ‘reciprocal basis’. The problem with the government is that they are certain that there are no alternatives to today’s EEA Agreement. As you can see, the government here is a parallel to the elites in the EU, who claim that there are no alternatives to current policies in the EU. With today’s policy, the EU can continue to unreasonably extortion Norway in the negotiations, for they know that until the seventh and last, the government and the majority of the population will say yes to an even more expensive and poor agreement, because they do not see other options. The government negotiates Norwegian membership of several new EU agencies that can make decisions that override Norwegian law in several key areas. In the energy sector, the government has indicated that the EU body Acer will be able to decide how much Norway will pay in cases where national bodies disagree on the cost allocation of infrastructure projects of common interest. For the banking sector, they propose that the Financial Supervisory Authority of Norway be required to comply with decisions taken by the European Union’s financial supervision. How to do this without breaking the Constitution, we didn't know. I hope we know more about that today. I also hope that, during this debate, the Council of State will clarify what is needed for the government to demand a two-thirds majority in this Chamber. 2014 shall be a year to pay tribute to Norwegian democracy and the Norwegian Constitution, not to pay tribute to the EU. Government and big business shall be the people's representatives and the interests of Norway. On a case-by-case basis, Norwegian interests are threatened by the EU. Then there is a need for a government that stands up and clearly defends the industry in the districts, the savings of Norwegian bank customers and the conditions for Norwegian food production. The centre party would be a good choice for party farmer Jeppe. If he had witnessed the praises of the EU in this room last Tuesday, I think, however, as soon as he had taken a noise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e545	The question is what Nille would say! That's what history is all about, but we can leave the word to the representative Trine Skei Grande, and there's no hint in it in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e548	Thank you for that introduction, President! Creator power and the fight against drunkenness, we'd like to stand behind us. First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for what I think was a good account. I want to start where the Council of State also started, when he said that the core of what is Europe is the rules for the protection of the individual and the rules for protection against abuse of power. There is a lot of bitter experience in Europe behind such a quote, and there are many common values on which Europe builds much of its political fabric. There are some features of sacred elections that are quite daunting in terms of attacks on the European values described by the Council of State, with the emergence of the outside right in France through the National Front, in the United Kingdom through UKIP, in Denmark through the Danish People's Party, in Hungary through Jobbik, in Greece through the Golden Dawn, and some in Germany have thus chosen to be represented by a Nazi party again. But what worries me the most is all those who see that they can be represented by a right-wing party, and who choose to sit at home. I think maybe it's the biggest thinker, that it's just 43 pst. participation, while the extreme right and the extreme left are capable of fully mobilising. That is perhaps what Europe should think more about. Otherwise, I am glad that the Liberals, through the ALDE, made a relatively good choice and will manage to manoeuvre in terms of influence on politics as well. Since the Council of State made its presentation, developments in Ukraine have reached a milestone, namely the presidential elections. I agree with Prime Minister Solberg, who has stressed that we must respect the elections, sail if there are many things we can respond to. The OSCE has pointed out that the elections meet democratic commitments but were conducted in a ‘enemy security climate’. I would define that as a clear «understatement» by the OSCE. Both sides must be criticised here, on the basis of both the attacks we have seen in Donetsk last Monday, and the unrest, which should not be exacerbated, and the responsibilities of Russia and the separatists, but also the responsibilities of the Ukrainian authorities. In the future, there is reason to fear parallel developments in other countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in Moldova. What is important and, as I see it, it was positive that Mr Børge Brende was notified on Monday, is that Moldova should be supported in the light of both economic and political reforms for this reason. That's what Europe did wrong in Ukraine, we waited too long to get to the rescue. Otherwise, it warms a Left-Heart as government representatives continue to underline knowledge, research and innovation as one of the main priorities. The size has been clear that we want Norway to participate in Horizon 2020 and Erasmus Pluss. It's unusually important. But it is also important that some of the 23 billion to be paid in return return to Norwegian projects. Here, we need the government's executive power to fully finance the basic funding in relation to research and innovation here in Norway, so we'll be able to collect the money we've contributed into Europe. Here the government still has a little bit to live up to. Then the State Council was very short in terms of the Data Storage Directive. I understand why the State Council was very short in terms of the Data Storage Directive. That is why I have also chosen to be very short in terms of the Data Storage Directive. I'm just going to read out a few words from the European Court of Justice's judgment: ‘The Directive involves a very extensive and particularly serious interference with the fundamental right to respect for privacy and to the protection of personal data, without this intervention being limited to what is strictly necessary.’ Then I'm just going to say to the end, what did we say?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e570	I would also like to thank the Minister for the distribution, but also for the fact that we are now working on a systematic European strategy, which I understand will be put forward in a short time, and what I regard as a great emphasis on how Norway can, at an early stage, raise issues that are important to us in the European debate. That's what I thought was very positive. I also think it was right for him to address the question of the trend towards increase in supervision and agency that we see, and the relationship with it. He announced a policy of possible adaptations to the EEA Agreement. I look forward to hearing more about what that means. I think we need a more fundamental debate on how we're going to deal with that kind of sovereignty renunciation in it. But what I am going to talk about in the first place is what has dominated Europe in the last five years – in many ways 25 years, one can say – the economic crisis and the enormous unemployment that dominates the debate on Europe in all countries, except Norway at least, one will come. Several reports have been published in winter that give an overview: in the EU, unemployment was 10.6 p.m. in February 2014. i average. It was down 0.3 pst. from the top of last year. That's 30 pst. of the unemployed who have now gone more than one year without a job, with what we know it means for the job prospects of the next round if the economy improves. The unemployment rate among young people, up to the age of 24, was 23.5 pst. In the same month, which was also down – it was down half a percentage point. What has become less remarkable is that there has also been a rather high unemployment rate now among those called young adults, 25–35 years of age, which is very worrying, because one is at the age when most have entered the establishment phase. It is also worth noting that the OECD underlines that in 25 out of 28 EU Member States, investment is still much lower than before the crisis struck in 2008. On the other hand, on the other hand, it turns out that stock prices are rising sharply, so there is a trend that many people have been facing that there is some kind of growth going on again. While unemployment in 2013 showed no significant decrease, share prices in 7,200 listed companies increase by more than 18 pst. Just to give a small image - an article in the reputable The Lancet in winter that went through the health situation in Greece, Greece's harsh crisis, might give a picture of the reality of what happens when countries experience something like that. In Greece the infant mortality rate went up, which is probably about out of proportion in a modern western country. She went up over several years. It was a powerful increase – almost 50 pst. increase — in the number of suicides since the crisis struck, increasing in a number of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, several HIV-infected drug users — i.e. heavy public health elements, which can obviously be directly linked to the weakening of welfare systems, social support systems and national health policies. The problem with the crisis we are talking about – and I heard the representative Agdestein say that we are now perhaps up from the wave valley we have been in – is also that we have had mass unemployment in Europe mainly for 25 years. In 1993, there were 14 million unemployed. Since the 1980s, unemployment has been at a stable — or perhaps unstable — high level in Europe. In most European countries, inequality has increased in the last decade. We have created an economic model in Europe that is based on quite high unemployment and great inequality and considerable job security. Some of it has caused it in the national State, which has caused it in the EU. But in some cases, I believe that the European Union has managed to create growth, but not eradicate unemployment or large and increasing social disparities over the last decade. That's what, in my view, the choice now shows. EU institutions appear irrelevant to most people to solve the social problems that one stands in the middle of. Fortunately, in Norway, which is in no way comparable to most EU countries in the economy, this should greatly dominate our debate on the situation in Europe as a whole, and how we can be a contributor to solving it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e591	I am pleased that there is broad support in this Chamber for the broad lines of European policy. This is important for Norway. I am also pleased that Ludvig Holberg has been involved in the debate. He was a true European, as at home in Leipzig as at Voss. He was a man of the European Enlightenment, and his very first work was «Introduction to the Stories of the Princes of Europe». The week we have been through since the presentation, has naturally been marked by the European elections. It is important for Norway because much of the EU legislation relevant to Norway through the EEA Agreement is involved in the European Parliament. I share the concern about the low turnout in the European Parliament elections, and I share the concern about the election outcome in several countries, not least in France, the country where the idea of building peace through economic cooperation through the Coal and Steel Union was born. We have experience in Europe of dark forces and extreme forces challenging democracies and challenging politics. The fact that extreme forces now stand for election and are represented in the European Parliament is therefore a mixed emotion. It is also good that debates with this kind of force are taken up in political assemblies. At the same time, it is important that the elections demonstrate Europe's diversity. There has been a lot of attention on the electoral victories of the extreme parties and the concern that it creates. However, the European Parliament's choice is also the story of an Italian country which is one of the major crisis countries, and where perhaps the government that is leading the most active and offensive reform policy in Europe now received strong support from the electorate. In the Netherlands, one of the most European-friendly parties was given the wind of the election and became the winner. In Germany, which has borne much of the economic burden of the crisis, the majority voted for a continuation and for a stable line. This is a pattern in several countries. What we are seeing is that the economic and social and, in part, the political crisis in Europe can be met in two ways: it can be met by a nationalistic search for scapegoats, but it can also be met by active reform policies. And that is the kind of active reform policy that we should support and that we should pursue in our European policy. Now that the European Parliament has got its composition, it remains to be seen how it will affect Norway and our ability to influence it. It can be demanding. But I would also like to stress that the consequences can well be so great at government level. It becomes crucial how the members of the European Council, how the Member States, in particular in the countries in which the secondary parties have done well, will now deal – whether they will try to meet these kinds of flows, or whether they will stand up for the values on which European cooperation is based. In any case, I am pleased that the Stortinge is working more and more actively towards the European Parliament. It's important, and it's necessary. Then there has been another important choice in Europe and for Europe in the last few days. Despite major difficulties, the elections in Ukraine have all the signs of being a legitimate choice, a choice that gives Ukraine the opportunity to choose its path in Europe. In this situation, we must show solidarity with Ukraine. We must also show solidarity with our friends and allies. We must respond where necessary, to the behaviour of the Russian authorities, but we must not react to the Russian people. We're going to continue our cooperation with the Russian people. We are in a serious situation in Europe. It's a new situation that reminds us the more of the community of values we're part of in Europe. That's why it's important that we stand up for that community of values. In that community of values, of course, we are going to fight for our interests and for our value creation, and we have a lot of things ahead of us in relation to the European Union, which I touched on in the presentation, which is just about standing up for our interests. But in this situation in Europe, we should always remind each other that we are doing so in the framework of cooperation with our best friends in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e614	I challenged the Council of State in my intervention to say something more about the prospects of finding a solution to our involvement in the financial agencies in particular. One may be concerned about the transfer of sovereignty, but I am much more concerned that European finance industries are not being properly controlled, so that we can risk a reprisal of what we had a few years ago. Therefore, I would like to give the Council of State a new opportunity to give the Storting some signals about finding a solution, and under the current Commission. And let me ask, because I cannot help but realize that one solution must be that, in line with the two-pillar system, we must establish our own supervision on the EFTA side: is there any contradiction to that in the government or with our EFTA partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e621	I very much agree with Mr Hansen that this is a matter of great importance. It is a matter of great importance for the Norwegian financial industry, and therefore also for the Norwegian economy. And that's not just a problem for us. The Nordic financial industry is very integrated, and that means that there is an interest not only in the EFTA side in finding a solution. Last night, the Finance Minister and I met the Chairman of the European Banking Authority and discussed this. We believe that we need to find a solution within the framework of the Constitution and within the framework of the EEA Agreement's top-pillar system. We have put forward proposals on the table that remain within these frameworks, which take account of the need for regularity, the need for a community and the need for a single market in financial services. We believe that it should be possible to find a solution. The political signals we receive are positive, but it is therefore a thorough technical and legal work that remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e630	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Even if you couldn't sketch anything about what the content and perspective were, I understand that you're at least in a dialogue, and that it's going forward. The second issue that the Council of State addressed in its statement, which I commented on, and which at least sounds as if there was agreement, is on the increasing level of EU policy-making in general and cross-sectoral areas. There is a discussion and a problem about the restriction on what is EEA-relevant — what falls within and what falls outside. I would like to hear whether the Council of State will ensure that the Grand Duchy of Europe is involved in such an assessment when there are new examples of this kind of cross-cutting policy design, where the EU sets policy objectives that we do not necessarily agree with or are to be included in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e639	We in the European Union see that what begins as policy-making, over time can become legislation, and when the government is busy being early out, it means that we must already engage in policy-making, also in order to monitor whether legislation can be introduced that will later affect Norway. We are committed to involving Stortinget early in those debates, as we have done in the climate and energy field. We do not know what comes from legislation, but we know that today's policy can become rules tomorrow, which can then become EEA-relevant. With regard to the assessment of EEA relevance, we have a good tradition and good management of its legal nature. Of course, we present that assessment, and then our adaptation to the legislation, our incorporation of the legislation, will be the subject of political discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e648	As I mentioned in my post, Norway is faced with a number of issues in the EEA related to the waiver of sovereignty. Financial supervision, the so-called procedural regulation and the EU Agency Acer are three examples. The central party is opposed to giving up additional sovereignty to the EU and to the EEA body. We believe that the matters relating to the waiver of sovereignty must be dealt with following the paragraph of the Constitution that previously had paragraph 93. The big business must take on seriously the strong criticism that has come from some of the top legal experts in Norway in the field of dealing with these issues. We are well aware that the Sanctions Council has a different approach, but how extensive must the waiver of sovereignty be before Helgesen puts his foot down and says that we cannot join in? And what is it that the Council of State would suggest that a useful procedure in Grundlova's former section 93 be applied?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e659	The approach of the government to these issues is an approach that has been widely supported and widely used in Norway since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. Low-interference transfers of authority may be transferred under the Constitution § 26. It's happened repeatedly. It has been done by all the governments in the lifetime of the EEA Agreement, and all the parties in government have supported this, and it is a safe constitutional practice. When it comes to the question of what is needed to ensure that this procedure is not sufficient, there will be a case-by-case assessment. We think that the important thing is that we take care of central Norwegian interests, among other things. join these agencies, that we stay within the framework of the Constitution, and that we maintain the integrity of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e666	The next replicant is the representative of Trine Skei Grande. As Trine Skei Grande progresses, the President may mention that § 93, as referred to in the previous line, is now § 115, after the changes we have been through.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e671	I would like to ask the Minister of Europe a question, not just because it is about EU and EEA matters. A little bit of experience after what happened in Ukraine was that we too in Europe failed when they needed help there, which led them to get a president who leaned against Russia and who had certain demands related to the help they could provide. Then Europe had been there and could have helped them in the crisis they were in, we might have escaped what we have now experienced. So my question to the European Minister is whether he agrees with me in such an analysis, and that it also tells us how important it is to address countries like Moldova and the other countries that feel the same pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e678	I agree with the representative of the Skei Grande in that analysis. We have a neighbourhood in Europe that has major challenges both in the south and in the east. We see that in the years we have gone through, EU cooperation and EEA cooperation have been very concentrated on the EU's own problems, and the capacity and involvement of neighbouring companies have probably suffered from that introversion. I hope, and I think we've learned from this. On our side, we support the EU's Eastern Partnership with Ukraine, Moldova and Armenia. We are multiplying our support to Ukraine in this situation. It is a support that must be accompanied by requirements, because we should not just deal with the authorities' desire for funds. We should also deal with the desire of the Ukrainian people to reform, to fight against corruption, etc. But our support must be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e685	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e689	I would also like to thank the Minister for a good and broad presentation. The elections to the European Parliament ended on Sunday. More than 400 million EU citizens in the 28 EU Member States had the right to vote in the elections of 751 MEPs. I guess 40 pst. participation. The right-wing extremities and the EU-sceptic parties have been declared the winners of the elections. Fortunately, the Socialists and the Conservatives still have a majority in Parliament. Fortunately, I say because I believe it is beneficial neither for the EU countries nor for the EEA countries that parties who do not want EU membership should dominate the policies that are being pursued. The core of European cooperation is to ensure peace and stable democracies in Europe. It is easy to lose sight of debates on directives and bureaucracy. However, the development of democracy and human rights in parts of Europe today is a cause for concern. The EU institutions have a critical role here. It is important to recognise that building functioning democratic states in Europe is a permanent project. Therefore, it is important to support the EU as the foundation of this. Despite uncertainty and unrest, EU countries are taking initiatives to improve the situation of both the economic crisis and social unrest. It is also important for Norway that a new European Parliament continue this work and work for a stable and peaceful Europe based on cooperation and community. The right-wing extremities and EU-sceptic parties do not believe in cooperation in the EU. They'll do the opposite. They will close their borders and be close to themselves – as some people also call for here in the country. I therefore think it is worrying when the interest in and the opening up of the elections is so low in the Member States. This has led some to ask how representative the European Parliament is. In Norway, it is claimed that this proves that the EU has failed and that the elections are a disaster for elite ideas about more power for the EU. It is at best a rhetorical point from EU opponents. The European Parliament is the only EU institution directly elected. Under the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament has gained considerably greater power and influence, a sign that European politicians too want more power for elected institutions. The choice has been interpreted by many as a protest against the ability of national parties to clean up national cases. I think that's right. In that case, that's the same thing as we see in elections here in the country: the big questions do not dominate the election campaign. The important thing for people is to solve everyday problems and get attention to them. The fact that the European Parliament has a greater influence on people's everyday lives than the local and national political levels is a challenge for the European Parliament to come forward. The elections to the new European Parliament are just as important for us as for the citizens of the Member States. However, we cannot participate, nor will the elections receive any particular attention in Norway. I would have liked Norway to be a member of the EU and that we could vote in this election, but Norway's relationship with the EU is today based primarily on the EEA Agreement, which this year is 20 years old. 80 pst. of our exports goes to the EU countries. Norway is closely interwoven with Europe through historical and cultural ties, geographical location and value and legal communities. We have therefore chosen to develop cooperation and contractual relations with the EU also in areas outside the EEA framework. It concerns judicial and police cooperation, asylum and immigration issues and cooperation on foreign and security policy issues. I would like to stress that cooperation with the EU in these areas has been largely on our own initiative. This recognition that cross-border challenges can only be met with cooperation has been the guide for changing Norwegian governments, with broad support in the UK. That's still the way it has to be. Developments in the EU and EEA countries are essential for Norway and for Norwegian interests. That is why I have noticed with interest that this government, as the Red-Green Government, says they will pursue an active European policy, and warns that in the government's European strategy, early participation, transparency and debate are a prerequisite. In recent years, the size has facilitated early participation through broad participation in the meetings of the European Committee, through active participation in the EEA/EFTA Committee of Parliamentarians, through the provision of early information on topical issues at the same time as national parliaments, through the creation of their own office in Parliament, through study stays in the EU institutions and the call for the committees to work actively in matters of relevance to them. We have therefore been able to participate and influence issues that are important to Norway. I perceive that the government in its presentations to the European Committee and the Stortinget are telling about important issues for Norway, but perhaps more about solutions than what solutions are being worked for. If the Storting is to be part of and be active in matters, as we want through our approach, it is important that this not only becomes words from the government – as I feel it has been so far – but that it is actually facilitated. I challenge the minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e712	Cooperation with the EU is essential for foreign Norway. Norwegian jobs depend on a well-functioning EEA agreement. Effective fight against crime depends on close cooperation with the EU in the justice sector, and – not least – today’s dramatically changed security situation in Europe clearly shows that we are also well served in this area. Both NATO and the EU play an increasingly important role not only in Europe but also in global security. This government is pursuing a necessary proactive European policy, with early Norwegian influence on the issues where our interests lie. For political activists and lobbyists, this is child learning. Yes, I will go so far as to say that it would almost be utopian to believe that Norway can change as much as a comma in some legislation after 28 Member States have said their own. The previous government got a painful lesson in that area, precisely because you hadn't been out early enough or coordinated enough to take up the exception we had for, among other things. the transport sector related to the differentiated employer charge, with the right EU institutions before the adoption of the new regional aid legislation. However, our government was accepted for flexibility in defining the scope of the new regional aid legislation. It is good political craftsmanship of the current government. Norwegian business does not ask for special rules that come in 12 hours. They ask that the framework conditions and the law that we are to follow under the EEA Agreement be quickly translated and implemented so that it does not delay the work. This is how we secure Norwegian jobs, because we are part of Europe. The main thing about the EEA Agreement is that we want to be in the internal market. More than three-quarters of our exports go there. Our security policy has suddenly returned as a theme for us right outside the front door, because there is a shorter distance between Halden and Ukraine than between Halden and Tromsø. Russia has made arrangements in a neighbouring European country. We who believed that our part of the world had come further were all disappointed. Now we see that the main discussions on international action against Russia's aggression against Ukraine take place precisely in the EU and between the EU and the United States. I am pleased that it has been, and is, an exclusive support from the Norwegian political environment that we end up with the EU's restrictive measures against Russia in this matter. Only a clear response from Europe will be clear enough to be captured by Moscow's radars. The principles of international law and democracy are values that we want in our Norwegian society, and that we must defend also outside our own territory. We very often have similar interests with the EU on these issues. However, although the EU has a stronger role in security policy, it does not necessarily mean that it has the capacity to meet these expectations. In particular, it is important for us to support the EU's neighbourhood policy, which will contribute to economic, political and social development south of our common Schengen border. As a Schengen member, Norway has its southern frontier in the Mediterranean. There, we can work with the EU to influence and contribute positively to building up political processes in the southern neighbourhood that can address the distorted economic development, high unemployment and the democratic deficit of these countries. The Arab Spring showed the clear will of several peoples for new and better governance and development. Tunisia is an example of a country that has managed to maintain its steering speed after the Arab Spring. It is a priority country, and I am very pleased that the Council of State will strengthen its efforts in precisely Tunisia. With its new constitution and democratic construction, the continued success of this country is very important for the stability of this neighbourhood region as a whole. But Tunisia is still a country with high unemployment, and democracy is fragile. The country deserves our attention both for further democratic construction, for opening up and facilitating investment from Norwegian businesses, and for academic exchange. It is important that we take over exactly what the State Council Helgesen spoke about in this room: ‘The instability of the European neighbourhoods, both south and east, reminds us once again that European policy is about the values we believe in and the value we live in.’ Finally, the low turnout at approx. 43 pst. concerns. Although this election has now seen new extra forces coming in – and it is also worrying – the EU is a project that has given us peace for decades in Europe. Moreover, democracy is not something that you can only be for if you like is chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e745	Let me also thank the State Council Helgesen for a good presentation last Tuesday. One plus one is more than two. This was the idea behind the EEA Agreement. Cross-border trade is an economic win-win situation for all involved. The free flow of capital, goods, services and labour will enable all countries to ensure higher economic growth and more well-being for their inhabitants. Free trade works. I believe in market mechanisms – not as a substitute for other important dimensions in life, but I believe that the market can do exactly what is the market's intention. Equal competition creates new and better solutions, faster and safer production and automation. It'll increase productivity. Increased productivity frees labour which, in turn, could be used to meet an almost infinite need for welfare services. The above is the intention of the EEA Agreement. Norway should be a positive contributor in all fields contributing to this. The new EU legislation on bank crisis management is positive. It should not be the taxpayers, but the banks and their owners, who should be responsible in the event of a banking crisis. However, the EU’s notified deposit guarantee of EUR 100 000, to which Norway must join, is a decision with negative ring-effects for Norway. I am pleased that the Norwegian authorities are taking time and effort to find solutions for an integrated banking and financial industry within the EEA. The principles of the EEA Agreement are intuitively wise, but at the same time they are challenging. All European countries have their unique history, their national origins. Living standards and welfare levels also vary considerably. Common conditions of competition therefore create challenges beyond the usual market and working conditions issues. Employees from a country with an average of half the pay level in Norway will find our labour market very attractive. Many therefore come here to offer their labour force, preferably for a wage that is much lower than the Norwegian minimum wage. Otherwise, the level of pay will be pushed downwards in Norway. It will make our products more competitive abroad, we produce more for less. But it's not that simple. Norwegian employers do not have the opportunity to reduce pay levels indefinitely. They must relate to contracts concluded. It attracts even more workers to Norway. A further challenge is our many social public benefits. The EEA Agreement does not restrict access by foreign workers to Norwegian welfare benefits. It is currently possible for workers in the EEA area who have worked in Norway to receive different social security benefits in their home country. It may provide the person with a social security exceeding the potential labour income of the home Member State. This is a big challenge that can grow us all over the head. The debate on welfare tourism was also very central to the election campaign ahead of elections to the new European Parliament. With this as a hindrance, I am pleased that the government is reviewing issues related to the export of welfare benefits. A advice from my side is that foreign workers are given the opportunity to set up their own people's security account. This will mean that workers from the EEA area will only be able to cover their welfare benefits while in employment in Norway. At the same time, the employee earns a personal national social security account paid by the employer’s contribution, which the employee can take with him at the end of his work in Norway. The payment of any unemployment benefit and various pensions will then cease. It will be a win-win situation for all parties and at the same time follow the intention of the EEA Agreement, which is to get most people to work and generate economic growth. While I am a member of free trade, I am opposed to the EU. Europe is composed of different nations, languages and cultures. National cultures should be preserved and defended. The European Unit is at best an ambition. Europe will never become a large, happy family. Europe’s citizens do well to listen to their own people. The outcome of the European Parliament elections is a warning. The media, too, have a responsibility. The caricature of all EU-sceptics and EU-sceptic parties such as right-wing extremities, anti-migrant, extreme and right-wing populistics is simultaneously a stamping of 20-30 pst. of the people of the EU — who have made a good voice. Nearly all EU sceptics are responsible for the European common values raised. They stand for equivalency, equality, pluralism, democracy, personal freedom and secular rules of law. The media's use of words and expressions shows how representative journalists are and how they rise above their own people. Changing Norwegian governments have granted decision-making rights to the EU, border control and asylum are among them. It is not obvious that when the EEA Agreement was concluded, there was such cooperation by the Nordics most of the time. Alternative governments have tied us to the mast in areas that were initially not annexed to the EEA Agreement – one takes the other. This is done by general majority decisions in the Stortinget. We should not be blind to the cumulative impact of all EEA-related contracts being considered a potential breach of the Constitution now § 115.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e766	First, I would like to thank the State Council Helgesen for the presentation to the Stortinget. The economic crisis has caused millions of Europeans to become unemployed. Although there are points of light for economic development in Europe, it will take time to get through the social crisis, which is a fact on large parts of our continent. The connection to the right extreme forces and batches is frightening. It calls for seriousness, and it is a reminder of how well we are in Norway. It is also a reminder that order in the economy, growth and new jobs are something we cannot take for granted. Among many things, this requires a lot of us politicians to make the right choices and basically hard political work. Europe today is characterised by major and increasing differences. Of course, it also affects us. In Norway, the idea of similarity is strong. Maintaining a society with small differences and with opportunities for all requires the greater effort as so many forces move in the opposite direction. These include: on the smoothing of geographical differences. For the Workers' Party, it is important that Norwegian EEA funds are used to balance differences in Europe. Our vision must be that a child born by the aliens anywhere in Europe should have equal opportunities to receive education and choose his or her life as any child born in Norway. It is also important that our European policy ensures Norwegian freedom of action to balance geographical differences at home. In this area, there is little reason to be impressed by the government's efforts. Ostetoll is a key to that. With regard to the management of regionally differentiated employer charges, it may seem that the government has been more concerned with placing blame on the pastors than with obtaining the best possible result for the industries and businesses concerned. Earlier this winter, the government was concerned about stressing that they had no room for action after they came to power, while now one is busy conveying that one is travelling to Brussels to sort it out, and in other words there was still a room for action there. Of course, it's good, but it took too long for the government to get to that recognition. Of course, the Government has the warm support of the Workers' Party to avoid or limit the sector exemptions. Still, there are many companies in the north and in other parts of the country that don't know if they want 0 or 14 pst. the employer’s fee from 1 July, i.e. in a few weeks’ time. I would therefore like to ask the European Minister to comment on how the dialogue with the European Commission and Brussels is now going, and on what kind of expectations you have of the outcome – if you have not already reached a conclusion. In this context, I would also like to stress the importance of the government being active towards the Commission in order to ensure a tax regime in the action zone – a so-called Snow White solution – that can contribute to landing and thus increase activity on land when the Castberg field and other future findings are to be extended to the north. There are several people here in the debate who have pointed to social dumping as a phenomenon. When there is a high level of unemployment in Europe, it puts pressure on pay and working conditions both in Europe and at home. It requires strong tripartite cooperation and secure action to enable globalisation and the European market to provide opportunities for more people instead of lowering the standard of work and deprive people of opportunities. Strong trade-union movements and strong labour rights are not an obstacle, but a prerequisite for globalisation, free trade and European cooperation to benefit most people. I attend to the government's review of social security exports and measures. I have a very good, concrete proposal. It is generally accepted that switching services from cash support to welfare services can help prevent social security exports. Limiting cash support and providing childcare facilities to people is a good measure in this respect. We have seen a strong increase in exports of cash support to, among other things, Poland, but a nursery place, no one can take them out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e792	The representative of Navarsete has finally explained why Jeppe drinks, and that is in her opinion because he lives in the EU. More about that in a little bit. I have said that before in this Chamber, but it is worth repeating: Europe's country is not becoming more important individually than what they are together. We are becoming more world citizens and fewer Europeans, relatively speaking. It is only positive that the poor in emerging economies are lifted out of poverty and into a new global middle class. At the same time, Europe’s country has to go along – if not after. Despite several points of light in recent months, the economic situation in southern Europe is too serious for many. Unemployment is still record high. Economically, more countries still live on their abilities. France, which has so far escaped the worst consequences of the economic crisis, has budgeted with deficits in the state budget every year since 1974 — i.e. for 40 years. Perhaps the national failure of many European countries gives Jeppe greater cause for a dream than what EU membership does. National politicians have a major responsibility for adopting national policy reforms that can contribute to sustainable growth and development and a public economy that balances expenditure and revenue. The EU can contribute, but national politicians have to do their job. The turnout on Sunday can be interpreted as an expression of a lack of confidence in the EU as a political actor, but also as a frustration at the inability of the nation-state to solve the social challenges that many European citizens now experience, and in and on their own have experienced for a long time. The EU is not a static size. The Union is based on and shaped by crises and common challenges. But what appears to be a crisis for some may be attempts at active reform policies for others. The alternative to talking to each other is not to talk to each other. History shows that the alternative to working with each other when the crisis strikes is to work against each other. We've tried it before. Protectionism, isolationism, negative trade barriers: it serves none. The EU has proved to be the most important political community in our part of the world, precisely because the answer to common challenges has always been to work together. In the years ahead, we will face major common challenges where it will be in the interests of Norway and Europe that there is a common political arena to discuss them, even if we do not fully participate in political work. Borderless challenges are many – international organised crime, climate and environmental challenges, migration and increasing numbers of refugees from Europe’s neighbourhoods, greater need for security policy coordination in Europe independent of NATO, social dumping and undeclared work, to mention something. Globalisation breaks down borders, weaves land and continents together. In this destiny, we need to find political solutions. We'll do the best together. That is why I am very pleased with the change of pace that the government and the European Minister have shown in European policy, with great ambitions to contribute to the EU's policy design in the past and more clearly. Finally, let me dwell a little bit on the area where I work the most, namely energy and environmental policy. This is an area that perhaps more than most policy areas have a very special interest in us. We are the supplier of a quarter of Europe's gas needs. We are – gradually – a major exporter of power in renewable energy, and we have a greater potential in the future. At the same time, the framework for Norway's climate and environmental policies is increasingly being laid in the EU. This means that we have to know our visiting time, make our recordings in time and make sure that we are part of Europe's future climate and energy solutions, and that we are not going to be stuck in that work. At my discretion, the government is doing a very good job with this, but it is important that this continues, as the challenges do not disappear and we are now steering towards a new climate agreement in 2015, where the EU will be a central supplier of premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e813	I would like to start by thanking the Council of States for his presentation, but I would also like to thank the European Union and EEA Expert Group for its thorough presentation. In his statement, he stressed the importance of getting involved as early as possible. We have to be there, said the Council of State, when the flute goes – to use football language. It is an intention that I fully support, and with this in mind, I will come up with a case in which, in the opinion of many people, today's government has done too bad a job, namely a regionally differentiated employer's fee. It is a case in point that we still have a good way to go before we have achieved the ambition to be on the ‘alert’ from day 1 when important issues are dealt with in the EU. We still have a great potential in our work against the European Union. As a Finnish mark-up, I am very disappointed that we have not managed to continue the system of a differentiated employer's fee. If all the stones are turned around, only the government knows, and even if the council says everything is nailed, I have a little hope that there's something under the last stone. When the EU forces Norway to impose full employers’ fees for some sectors of the action zone, we talk about an additional cost that can be measured in billions. This is a major disaster for the parts of the North's business that are affected, and then important district jobs are also being wasted. If it turns out that it is not possible to reverse the EU, I hope that the government will compensate the extra costs for the kroner. But I'm not there either. Until too many regional instruments are removed or reduced in the north, based on internal political priorities of the Solberg Government. Several representatives have commented on the EU elections in their contributions. As a common representative of big business and still very positive to the EU, I am, like many others, concerned that the flying parties – mainly on the extreme right-wing wing – had a connection in almost all countries. Unfortunately, the fact that electoral participation is also very low contributes to a weakening of community, solidarity and trust in the EU. A protest choice, is the feedback from most. Yes, we can agree on that. That voters are protesting, understandably, that's part of democracy, but I find it hard to understand that it was necessary to get so angry and so frustrated at sitting politicians that a voted-in politician, as I would say, would make it even worse for one by being self-sufficient. From France and Le Pen's people we hear the message of 'France for Frenchmen', and if not as clear, the same message lies with most of the far-right parties in Europe. If we look at Hungary, then representatives of the party march Jobbik in the streets, and one of many extreme messages from them is that no Jew should sit in the Hungarian parliament. We have heard this message from the far right parties before, in Germany in the 1930s, and it was also bad for Europe and the world, and we are not going to germinate on such statements as those we record today. The crisis in Ukraine challenges Europe in many ways, and Europe and Norway are united in their response to Russia in terms of what is happening in Crimea and the eastern part of Ukraine. I very much agree with the Council of State that we should respond to the Russian authorities, but not to the Russian people. To that, people-to-people cooperation in the north is too important. How the crisis ends is not easy to say today, but we're all going to try to contribute to the crisis at least not escalating. I just want to make two entries from Evening News yesterday. On the one hand, we saw that energy supplies between the EU, Ukraine and Gazprom were being negotiated. On the next step we saw scenes from the city of Donetsk, where 30 people lost their lives in the civil war and what's going on in the eastern parts of Ukraine. This is a very difficult challenge for the region we belong to. I agree with the Council of State saying that neighbourhood policy should contribute to economic, political and social development south of our common Schengen border, and that should be lacking only, but in this context I will challenge both the Council of State and the Government in terms of our Schengen border with Russia. Now we have very close to the same challenges as we are facing south, but these are challenges, and it is mostly about the explosion of the physical capacities at our border with Russia. It can be a security issue. The other day we could read that the police at border crossings fear that Russians are crossing the border with Norway without being controlled. Council of State: we cannot be familiar with such conditions at our only Schengen border. A capacity expansion must take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e839	I would like to briefly include three themes in my article. Firstly, I think it is good for the government to raise the issue of cancelling exports of social security benefits from Norway. This is a piece of work that the previous government started, and it's complicated both legally and politically. All indications suggest that the export of Norwegian social security benefits will increase in the future. Maybe we need to make some changes to our law. In any case, we have to balance different concerns and obligations. We must support both the right to freedom of movement for people within the EEA and a policy that ensures long-term resilience in our welfare services. In any case, it is exciting to see whether the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs' conclusions on social security exports are tightened up as much as the Progress Party expressed when the party was in opposition, because then there was no way how easy it would be to strangle in social security exports. The truth is, however, that our ability to restrict social security exports is quite limited because of the EEA Agreement, and in addition, we must not forget that Nordics working in other EEA countries can bring back exported social security benefits to Norway. The second theme I want to address is the EU Enforcement Directive, which was adopted by its bodies a few days ago. It is a directive that is important to ensure that the requirements of the broadcasting directive, which will help prevent social dumping, are complied with. EU countries have gradually become involved in a common platform for better enforcement of broadcasting legislation. The compromise on this directive in the EU contains two specific open questions, which perhaps the Council of State can comment on. Firstly, there is now an opening for other control measures against social dumping than those mentioned in the Directive, but as many interpret it, there will still be strict requirements to circumvent them. In Norway, we have pursued a dynamic and offensive policy against social dumping in recent years, with new problems being faced with new measures. However, I am not sure how to implement the directive in Norway and how the government will implement new measures against social dumping within the framework of this new directive. Then it is uncertain whether the membership of so-called post office companies will be covered by this directive. These are companies that only have a mailbox in the country where they say they are established, but they all have operations in Norway, and if it turns out that the employees of such companies fall outside the scope of the Directive, it is very important that the government properly frame this business model. I hope the government will extend far to ensure that Norwegian pay and work conditions are fully applicable to these employees. The third and last topic I want to address is the new EU Programme for Employment and Social Innovation, EaSI. This is a programme aimed at contributing to the EU's objective of promoting high employment, ensuring good working conditions and fighting social exclusion and poverty. The programme consists of three axes: EURES, PROGRESS and microfinance. The government has recently proposed that Norway join only one of these three sections, EURES, and I find it disappointing that the government wants to withdraw Norway from the PROGRESS programme. I think this is a depriority of Norwegian participation in European cooperation in the field of employment and social affairs, which we could have benefited from, so I'm critical of such a priority, especially since the foundation is of budgetary importance. Whether it is the Progress Party, which has some isolationist approach to international cooperation, which has been implemented, or whether it is Right’s budget cut to finance tax cuts that are the reason why this EU programme is being downgraded, I should not be wondering.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e854	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e857	Several have used their speaking time to comment on the weekend's elections to the European Parliament. It deserves attention, and it is important to see the danger signals represented by the election results in some countries. There is no doubt that this is a crisis of confidence for individual politicians, but also for the European Union as such. This, combined with major social challenges and the fact that many countries have chosen to face the financial crisis with tax cuts and reduced ambitions for investment and activity, has contributed to strengthening the social crisis that many people experience. I hope Norway can take leadership, because I think there is a need for European politicians at the top level to sit down and assess: what really is going on, and how can we meet this challenge when we know that even in the European Parliament we have now got representatives who are neo-Nazis? I believe that Norway can then take an initiative to discuss, across borders and party boundaries, how to work to create more jobs, better social protection and build bridges between people. There has been a lot of debate in the United Kingdom — especially last week — about the new EU Public Acquisitions Directive. It is a directive which had been notified for a long time, but where the content was not known until it was adopted in January and February. Right-wing representatives in Stortinget have spent a lot of time criticising the red-green government for what they claim was a lack of process and content information – despite the fact that the content was not known until quite recently. Since the adoption of the Directive, which will apply in Norway from 2016, the government has had two opportunities to inform the European Parliament of the content of this Directive and the scope of action for Norway: in the revised version and in the presentation by the Council of State. I've read these documents quite thoroughly, but I can't find a single mention of this. Properly, the Horne State Council has announced a review of and a process for dealing with the space for action, but the content of the directive and the Norway’s space for action is little known. I would like to challenge the Council of State to say something about what this Directive represents of room for opportunity for Norway, and why the government does not choose to exploit the space for action in new bidding rounds for ideal actors in child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e868	The European policy of government is about the values we believe in, the value creation we live on and the friends we depend on, said the Minister in his statement to the Stortinget on 20 May. As a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I welcome the offensive attitude of this government towards Norwegian participation in European research cooperation. As Minister Vidar Helgesen said in the presentation, the EU Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, and the EU Programme for Education, Youth and Sport, Erasmus+ are part of an overall strategy to strengthen European competitiveness. If we are to develop the knowledge-based nation of Norway and ensure more legs to stand next to the oil, we need to participate in those arenas where the best further develop their knowledge and competence. That is why I am very pleased that this government is significantly increasing our contribution to these projects. But let's add 23 billion. In research cooperation in the period 2014-2020, we also need to raise the ambitions for what we will have left for this, quite strongly. In the previous Framework Programme, the 7th Framework Programme of the EU, Norway collected 6.4 billion. kr, and our government is clear that the objectives now need to be increased. That's why it's interesting when the University of Bergen follows the government's signals. On the website on the height we can read that during the period 2009–2012 the UIB picked up 49 pst. of the external resources of the Research Council, while the EU only accounted for 5 pst. Now the UIB, and more with them, gripped to change this. I hope that the UIB and the other universities, colleges and research institutes get a good start and succeed better in the new programme. The same applies to industry and business. If we are to develop world-class educational and research environments, the pace shift of government must be followed up. The State Report on Higher Education 2013 shows a decline in the allocation of the higher education sector from the EU Framework Programme for Research in 2012 to the UIO, UIB, UIT and NTNU. But then it's interesting to see that the Gjøvik College excelled with a doubling of the revenue from the same framework programme from 2011 to 2012. Here, more people have to do like Gjøvik and sharpen their strategies. Today, European cooperation in education and research is as important as cooperation in defence and trade. Here we lay the foundation for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e886	We are in many ways in a break-up period for Europe, and after many years of euro crisis, mass unemployment and reasonably varied management by the institutions of the European Union, it was no surprise that there was a reaction from the voters in the Parliamentary elections. I share the concern that many people have expressed here from the pulpit for that result. Nevertheless, I find reason to nuance the picture somewhat: it is not that the EU is now overcome by extremist forces. In the European Parliament, which has 751 members, 108 come from a strongly EU-critical party. Four of them come from the Danish People's Party, which is much less EU-critical than any party in this Chamber. Denmark is to the extent an interesting example that there is no clear trend, because in Denmark, where the Danish People's Party doubled the uprising and passed from two to four mandates, at the same time Danish voters approve the European Patent Court – a great loss of sovereignty – with overwhelming plurality in referendums. By the way, there's one thing we'll probably get back to in this room at some point. There is also reason to rejoice that 35 years of constant decline in the election process have stopped, and that the election process has actually gone up a little bit at this time. But she's still too low. I also have to point out that the election turnout in our country is still 0 pst. in this context. There are two things I want to point out. The first is about the free trade agreement between the United States and the EU, which is now being negotiated. It's a very important field for Norway to follow. It is perhaps one of the most important things that the European Minister has to follow up in the next few years. It is important for Norwegian interests, and here we have to be able to connect and at least not be disconnected in the cold. The second is the recurring debate on social security exports, which was also discussed by the Minister for European Affairs. There is a debate in many countries in the European Union, but I think there is a debate that is about as exaggerated in all the countries that he is in Norway. It is not the case that there are large sums of money going out to non-residents that should not have them. 78 pst. of social security exports from Norway to old-age pensioners, who are overwhelmingly Norwegian citizens. This number is 90 pst. whether or not one includes the performer. Less than 1 pst. the redundancy benefits go to non-residents abroad. 0.22 pst. of the daily allowances and 3,7 pst. of cash support – which is actually a decrease. The latter is a problem that can be solved simply by doing it as a quite large minority in this room would like, simply dissociating the scheme. Why is it important to say this? Well, if we now go very far in introducing more bureaucracy and delimitation of justice, it can affect labour mobility in Europe, and it must go up – not down.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e903	The government, at the Helgesen State Council, is working for a systematic EU and EEA strategy that leads Norway away from our government, as we celebrate it at the 200th anniversary of the Constitution. The Council of State says that the use of the Constitution § 26 in an increasing number of areas is safe constitutional practice, and that this government, as former governments, remains within the framework of the Constitution. This is, in my view, wrong. Future, supranational rules, for example: financial supervision may become new examples which cannot be dealt with under the Constitution § 26. The EU resistance in Norway is united in a joint 200-year-old recognition that national sovereignty and democracy are two sides of the same coin. Rule of the people, the environment and international solidarity were what brought the EU's opponents to victory – last in 1994. At the same time, it was clearly said that it was open to everyone, except racists, who believe that the Norwegian people are better than other people. It was clear then, and it is clear in all the EU's opposition at the Central Party today. Since 1814, the Norwegian Constitution has asserted the principle of popular sovereignty that political power must be anchored from below. But popular sovereignty is a completely foreign element in the EU, governed by a Commission that practises an economic union with a single currency, and how strong forces work for a political union – the United States of Europe. This naturally creates both dissipation and stronger reactions among people. The EU system is creating an increasing social and political crisis in more and more countries. The ILO, the UN Labour Organisation, established in 1919, is very concerned about the situation in Europe. They see parallels between 1919 and the situation that is now evolving. This is reflected in the elections to the European Parliament, with great tremors, uncertainty and insecurity for the future and foreign fears that give rise to racism. State Council Helgesen represents a clear voice on behalf of the government, with an ideological belief in the Union project, almost independently of the consequences for the people most. This, in my view, is a dangerous attitude. For the Center Party – an Earth-earned, green party like us – reality is more important than theories and ideology. That's why it's going to be hard to hear here that the Council of State is concerned about dark and extreme forces and has mixed feelings about it, but not asking questions about why it is. He says it's going to be demanding for example. the British Government to act in this respect when such a large majority of the population in the elections voted differently from that at the heart of the Union project. I would urge the Norwegian Stortinget to take this debate much more seriously, in order to prevent us from developing movements that are completely alien to Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e922	In the last few days — and to some extent also in today’s debate — many have tried to be election researchers after the results of the sacred elections to the European Parliament became clear. I will not try to do that, but I think we have to say that if the results do not create a new political situation, they can at least lead to a different political situation, not only for the EU, but also for the EEA, on which we build our policies. This may lead to less stability in the long term. It can create less integration. Yes, because with such results as we saw in some countries, it will not be unnatural if several EU countries now need to use more force on internal issues. In several countries, we saw that the government parties went on a serious click. We do not have to go further than to Sweden and Denmark, where the parties of both Prime Ministers did very badly in the election to the European Parliament. Think that the Moderates in Sweden got 13 pst. uprising – a disaster outcome for the Swedish Prime Minister. There may be bad news for the EEA country of Norway if several EU countries now need to use large forces and resources on internal conditions, at least at the expense of common European conditions. It can make it more difficult to grasp our interests because we are so dependent on close cooperation both with EU countries bilaterally and with the EU as such. Fortunately, the currents I have now had did not turn out to be in the election of the European Parliament in Germany, even though there are absolutely aspects to the election that are not good. In Germany, however, the two government parties – Christian Democrats and Social Democrats – received almost 60 p.m. digestion. It is good for Germany, it is good for the EU, and it is good for Norway. In addition to our Nordic neighbouring country, Germany is the main country for Norway. For 15 years, changing Norwegian governments have had a German strategy. As far as I can see, the current government is revising the German strategy. It's very good, and the government wants happiness in that work. Germany is important for Norway, and in two weeks the German Federal President will visit Norway. Let's welcome him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e931	We have seen a change of pace in relations with Europe, and I think that all those who are concerned with business, growth and value creation in Norway should be very pleased with that. We do not miss the fact that Europe and the EU have been, are and will be the most important trading partner we have. We live in a symbiosis with Europe, and whether we are for or against the EU, we should see the value of being early outside. Differentiated employer's fee is a good example of a matter where we might have been out earlier than we were. Differentiated employer’s fee is one of our foremost regional policy instruments, and it helps to stimulate growth and jobs across the country. This is revised every seven years. For some things, which I now record trying to attack the sitting government for, the train actually went in June 2013. However, I must first note that the proposal that the government has put forward, which is to be approved and hopefully to enter into force from 1 July, shows how the differentiated employer fee can be used quite specifically to generate growth in the parts of the country that have worn out. There are 31 new municipalities coming in, and many of them are inland, which I myself belong to. I belong to a part of the country that has really cheered on the changes. But there is a bit of a worm in the beggar, and that is that certain sectors are exempt from the aid. I think it's a very sensible approach from the government that you first get the general system through, and then you go to find out whether you can agree with the EU that the sector exemptions are not applicable or that compensatory measures can be found. It must be wise to ensure that the system that we all know is extremely important for regional development in Norway is maintained. Then we get to take the exceptions that we know have given certain curious results around the country, such as that ski lifts get full employer's fee because they are engaged in transport. I don't quite understand that the opposition here can scream with criticism from the government. The train went while they were even in position, and our government is doing as well as it can to repair the damage it did that you were not early enough out there that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e940	First, I would like to thank you for the statement by the Council of State. It was thorough. We rely on the EU in many fields, not least in combating greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. Until next year, we need to establish an international agreement at the Paris climate summit, and it is clear that it is important for the world that the EU continues to hold and take the leading role necessary to achieve it. In its presentation, the Minister also addresses the EU Climate and Energy Framework to be established in October this year. This is a framework that will, of course, be very crucial for Norway’s climate policy as well. It's important for me to argue that a 40 pst. reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the EU is a minimum. It would be an advantage, even for Norway, if this were to be reinforced, and it is obvious that if this were to be decided in the EU, it would also have to be a minimum of the objectives we are going to set for our work towards 2030. There are many areas of climate action where we need closer cooperation with the EU, not least in order to establish a full scale CO2 capture and storage facility by 2020. When the project in Mongstad was not implemented, we need to work with partners in the EU to set up a competition that can ensure that this technology is put into practice. What's most important now is that technology is put into practice so that we can do this both at home and on a large scale in the years ahead. In the environmental field, much of the policy we are working with in Norway is in many ways initiated by the EU. The work of many Norwegian municipalities has been initiated by the EU. It is important that we now focus on and work hard to implement the policy we agree on – through the EEA Agreement – not least on the Water Directive or pollution in our larger cities. After all, we need to give our cities the framework and opportunities to achieve the objectives of the EU Directive. So finally, something quite different: I am very pleased that the minister spent so much time explaining the situation in Tunisia, and that Norway is using a lot of energy to support democratic development in Tunisia. But I'm a little surprised that there was no mention of the situation in Libya. It is clear that with our history, the role of Norway and NATO in the change of regime and the fall of Gaddafi, it is essential that we as a nation follow up the situation in Libya. It is important for us, and it is important for the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e958	First, I would like to thank you for a good presentation of the Council of State. There has been talk about the importance of working together. Joint work is essential in the face of one of the major challenges we face, and that is the struggle we have to wage for a decent working life. Work life crime is too complex to solve with polarization and slogans. We don't know enough about scale and structure today. But we know that it's not unlikely that we're talking about tax evasion of about 5 pst. GDP. Then there is a threat to the welfare state. We know that criminal actors operate with prices that are so low that it is not possible to carry out the work legally. Then it's a threat to our common working life. We know that it directly affects individuals. The Labour Inspectorate reports that, in its supervision of social dumping, they have had to stop working several times because of the acute danger to life and health. Then it's a threat to individuals. It should tear in our soul when we know that there are people who have it like this at work. That is why I welcome the active attitude of this government towards the crime of working life and social dumping. A new plan for economic crime will be presented in the autumn and labour crime will be part of that work. Our strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate is also essential. There is also no doubt that good dialogue with the trade union movement and an industry-oriented effort is relevant, to mention something. It is also positive that a common platform has been agreed to strengthen the enforcement of the Broadcasting Directive. In line with what we have worked for the EU, we are given the opportunity to continue and further develop our arrangements relating to posted workers. By clarifying the situations in which this covers, which apply in the case of transmission, we prevent the misuse and circumvention of legislation. Fortunately, the enforcement directive does not prevent us from having our own control measures. The Enforcement Directive is good news. Finally, I just want to say that labour and social dumping are a multidisciplinary challenge. But we also have to solve it cross-politically and transnationally. Joint work is the prerequisite for us to be able to face that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e973	The transport industry is one of the most under pressure industries in Norway today. The main reason why more and more drivers in Norway are threatened with their jobs is the EEA Agreement. Therefore, the Transport Workers’ Association decided that Norway should leave the EEA. Poorly regulated imports of labour and the widespread use of cabotage services along Norwegian roads have led to an alarming development of social dumping in the transport sector. As a result, drivers throughout Norway feel that their pay and working conditions are increasingly under pressure. Worst of all, they lose their jobs. A different effect of the EEA Agreement is now felt by the fact that the system of differentiated employer charges is threatened by sectoral exemptions, not least transport. The NHO Nord-Norway has stated that if what is now in place is adopted, two out of three carriers in North Norway will not be able to survive. This will have dramatic consequences, not just for those who lose their jobs, but for business and for communities throughout Northern Norway. When we see this as a whole, we see how dramatic the situation is. Firstly, competition in the transport sector is so small that companies will not be able to cope with such a significant increase in their expenditure. Secondly, the proposed changes in the income system of the county municipalities will take so much money from North Norway that both ferries, boat and bus can come under great pressure. The transport system in North Norway is in the worst case facing a total collapse. All parties have expressed their wish to bet actively on the north. Northern Norway shall be a part of the region with growth and development. When we see this curtain, we realize that the situation of the transport industry in the north cannot be accepted. A well-functioning infrastructure is an essential prerequisite for development. It is therefore necessary to find good solutions to support the transport industry, not just in the north, but in the rest of the districts around the country. Differentiated employer charges are very important, and the transport industry is an important prerequisite for making society function well. Then my closing question is: Has the government realized the seriousness of the situation, and what will it do to remedy the situation we are facing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e988	I come from the same part of the country as the previous speaker, and I fully agree that transport is very important for that part of the country. In Norway, we are so lucky that we have an EEA agreement, which also provides North Norway and Northern Norwegian businesses, which are highly export-oriented, easy access to our main markets – Europe. The debate has sometimes raised questions as to why it is not possible to replace the EEA Agreement with a free trade agreement. The EEA Agreement is far more extensive than the 1972 trade agreement. It therefore opens up much more for exports of goods and services from Norway, and for what concerns me, goods and services from North Norway. The European Commission concludes that the EEA Agreement has served Norway very well. That's why a lot of politicians don't want to turn the clock back to 1972. They'd rather look at the clock that's ticking forward. The advantage of the EEA over a free trade agreement is that it allows Norwegian companies to compete for customers within the same regulatory framework as their European competitors. So it gives Norwegian companies competitive power. It also provides Norwegian enterprises with access to the large public procurement market of our European neighbouring countries. The agreement also gives Norwegian citizens rights in Europe, which a free trade agreement does not. When the representative Svein Roald Hansen so elegantly reminds us of the agreement we developed with our Nordic neighbours, it vividly illustrates the importance of the EEA agreement. This means that the only real alternatives remaining for Norway are either continuing to have an EEA Agreement or full EU membership. The reality without the EEA would have been that for all the areas it includes, for all the goods, services and transactions it includes, we would have to have gone to 31 countries to negotiate. For each sector included in the EEA Agreement, we must have had our own sectoral agreements with 31 countries. These are 31 countries with widely different starting points, 31 negotiations with different climates, different negotiators and different desires. The EEA negotiations are difficult. 31 different processes do not appear to simplify life for Norwegian business. Finally, the representative of the Navarsete, who was both engaged and handsome. National government, the environment and solidarity are, according to the Navarsete, the reasons why the Central Party is opposed to the EU. That description sounds like the arguments of a strong EU-friendly party involved in the EU, and not isolating itself, as the Central Party wants and has done in government. One could get the impression that she was talking about an alliance of anti-European centre parties around Europe. I don't know what list Navarsette leans on, but most of them probably aren't in the immediate vicinity of the Center Party. It is possible to quote from the Central Party's sister party in Sweden, the Center, which, following the termination of the Schengen Agreement by the Central Party, was shocked and thought that only anti-immigrant politicians could express such a thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1005	First, I want to thank the State Council Helgesen for a good production. I am very happy to note that there is now a change of pace in Norwegian European policy. We need that, and Europe needs that too. Both the EU elections and the elections in Ukraine have been mentioned from the pulpit today. In particular, the latter shows that we have a neighbourhood that needs us to show our solidarity and support for an active and good reform policy throughout Europe. In addition to supporting the EU neighbourhood policy, we also need to ensure that Norway is always at an early stage, and that we take advantage of the opportunities we have for participation in expert groups and committees, while using all other available channels to obtain information and also to promote our views. A well-fledged EEA Agreement has itself an important national interest. It was a significant aftermath of the inclusion of legal acts. We have now, on the Norwegian side, got this down, and in this way, we will have the same rules for Norwegian companies as they are for their competitors. This is how our government has strengthened the competitiveness of Norwegian business. However, in addition to incorporating and implementing new EEA legislation, it is very important that the government now gives a high priority to the work that needs to be done in order to find good solutions for our participation in the EU Agency linked to EEA cooperation. Finally, I would like to point out that we have a number of areas in the field of transport and communications where it is of great importance that Norway is present and affects development and, not least, harmonisation of legislation. Unfortunately, Norway has not always been a clear voice in EU transport and communication policy discussions. Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen recently met with Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas. Norway needs to cooperate internationally in order to establish fair competition, clean working conditions and also safe aviation. This meeting was a new meeting, and it was a good meeting. In this way, we can use the EU even better to raise pan-European challenges and also Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1018	The breadth of the debate we have had today shows the importance of the Europeanisation of Norway in almost all areas of society. I'll get into just a few examples of that. First of all, the differentiated employer's fee. It is important because it is a dramatic change we are now facing for important industries, not least the transport sector, because of the sector exceptions. As a country, we need to learn from the process that has taken place in the past, because it is really an example – which many have been involved in – that from the Norwegian side you were not on the alert from day one. The day one was in January 2013. The proposal was then put on the table by the European Commission, and six months later it was adopted. Unfortunately, this process passed across the EU without any briefing or debate in the United Kingdom or any other public debate in Norway, and there was no political dialogue with the Commission. We now have the political dialogue – not on last year’s legislative designs, but on interpretations and on the detailed definitions of the application of the legislation, and not least on the possibilities contained in the State aid legislation other than the regional aid rules. We're coming back to Stortinget with our own proposition in this context. So I want to say that it's important, and it's good, that many people are involved in issues of employment. Norwegian work life is changing, not least because of the Europeanisation. It is a great job relocation, which benefits not least the districts. In this context, the question of social security benefits and social security exports is emerging, and the question of social dumping is also one of concern. These are important issues that we address, and where we are also going to fight unfortunate outcomes. But we should not forget the main thing, namely that this change in working life, this shifting of labour, is fundamental to Norwegian business, and not least to business and local communities in the districts. As far as the Enforcement Directive is concerned, we are in a process of transposing the Directive into national law, and we will then look at the more detailed limitations there. Finally, I would like to mention another important issue, where there is a real broad consensus in the Stortinget – and that is good – namely the question of research and Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+. There are great opportunities for Norway, for all parts of Norway — for business, for authorities, for organisations and for academic life. These are opportunities made possible by EEA cooperation. Here, the government will set ambitious targets and implement measures to achieve, and help Norwegian actors to achieve, such ambitious goals. We're getting closer to what that means.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1031	In several of today’s posts, there has been a drag on the centre party’s slope to the EU. I would like to remind you that it is we in the Center Party and our allies who have the crowd behind us – since 1994. We are faced with what happened in 1994. Maybe more should take it inwards? The pace shift that so many people are celebrating today from the pulpit is, in fact, different from speeding up further adjustment – that one does not ask the difficult questions, that one does not take the difficult meetings, but that a constant search is for solutions where one can go under the radar? Read the 'radar' as three-quarters of the plural in this room, read that a person wants to quietly and calmly adjust the extras to compensate for that membership that he so sorely wants, but never got – and probably won't, if one reads the plurality of the polls today as well. Several have been subject to a differentiated employer's fee. I find reason to remember that in our negotiations – in what was the basis for the negotiations – there was a very clear demand for all sectors to be included. That the EU did not meet us, did not prevent us from being clumsy about negotiating an exception for Norway, just as in the previous round we had to clean up a differentiated employer’s fee after the Right-Registration, which did not do the job then either. It was Åslaug Haga who got cleaned up in 2005 and got a differentiated employer's fee in place. It may seem that we must do the same at the next government change, and I hope that it will come soon. When the government does not intend to negotiate the necessary decisions to protect Norwegian interests here either, it is of course easy to apologize for the train leaving. But the train did not go to negotiate exceptions – one here, either, as in many, many other cases. One must straighten his neck and stand up for Norwegian interests, and not give in to what Brussels had to bring. I mean the requirement of the sitting government must be the same as the red-green government put on itself, easy to negotiate the necessary exceptions. It was also a theme when I met the ESA president just before the election – a trip that I almost felt had been thrown away, because the answer was: But dear friend, this requirement should go right. Perhaps it was of concern to have a discussion about this just before the election that one chose to have such an approach – which I know – but it was never produced as impossible to obtain the good solutions that I had in mind at the time when I was a municipal minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1041	Just a few comments at the end of the debate. When I hear the speeches of the representatives of the Central Party, I remember the words of Konrad Adenauer: “We all live under the same sky, but not all have the same horizon.” This isn't a drag park, because when the Center Party uses expressions like government, we're going to decide for ourselves, etc., I think it's growing up a problem that they owe us to answer. In other contexts, I hear the Central Party say that they are in favour of binding international cooperation. It is not possible to have binding international cooperation without countries being willing to state any of their sovereignty. Then you can always discuss how far to go here and in what areas. But if the principle of popular sovereignty is to be held high, we cannot commit ourselves to the fight against climate change, trafficking and other crime. That's the challenge of the Center Party when they raise these beautiful words. When we listen to Lundtigen, you get the impression that if the majority had tipped the other way, so that we had become a member of the EU, we would not have been able to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Constitution. It's not exactly like that. When the representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås points to the challenges in the transport sector, there are real challenges that we have to deal with. However, reporting out of the EEA does not change anything – the trucks would have come anyway. We still had to import goods and services. And if that's what the Center Party says, it's that a free trade agreement we could just as well deal with. In any case, there would not be fewer trucks by notifying themselves out of the EEA. Together, we must fight against unprofessional carriers, social dumping, etc. – in a common labour market and in a common commercial market. Then we have to cooperate. So a few more words about social security exports. I wonder if there is talk in the Spanish Parliament of Norwegian older people’s exports or Norwegian older people’s exports, when so many older people in Norway buy an apartment in Spain and live there all or part of the year. I hope you don't. But we should think about that when we use the term ‘truggle exports’ – when Poles, Swedes, Danes and Latviers get child welfare for the children who live in their home country, because they themselves work here and child welfare is a right they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1061	Change of pace in European policy, what is it? asked Mr. Navarsete. Yes, she can wonder. I can read, e.g. what Gunnar Martinsen writes in DN: ‘The Solberg Government has travelled to Brussels more than the red-green did in the year.’» [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘All euro-bottoms in the office agree that the sun has turned around.’ And I can read more – a quote from NHO's Enterprise Policy Director, Petter Haa's Brubakk, in the Nation: ‘There has been a change in the pace of European policy, even after only six months. There is a greater degree of openness and attention on EEA issues and more energy on their work in the departments. Business, organisations and businesses are being heard more now.’ We're part of Europe. We want to be part of the internal market. We want safe Norwegian jobs. Then we must be proactive and have this change of pace, this change – be more forward-looking in European policy than we were before. Navarsette asked earlier today if it was such that conservative politicians were annoyed by hearing Jeppe on social issues. No, I've heard Jeppe in the Eastfold dialect too – I think it's just as great. And I think Hartvig Kiran's "translation" of Evert Taubes shows is absolutely magnificent. This is one of the European policies: we are open to other impressions than the narrowest, which we get every day. But what can irritate me is to participate in a debate that goes over time and only now hears that Navarsete – as far as I can understand – admits that her government knew about the sector exemptions and demanded Norwegian special arrangements. Why did they never mention it to the Big One?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1085	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1088	I do not know whether Gunnar Martinsen in DN should be a truth witness to the success of European policy – the EU/EEA policy – but I would like to ask: Is it so that the impact on Norwegian interests is measured in the number of flights to Brussels? I guess it's not like that. It's the content of what you're presenting, and the result of what you're giving at the meeting, which means something. We'll see what you get a little after each pass, for example. in the case of a differentiated employer’s fee. There was nothing in Stortinget. There was no reason for that either. It was normal negotiating animals. It was always clear that the Norwegian negotiations on exemptions started after the EU had taken its decision. It was very clear and very clear from the office. I'm sure you'll be able to confirm that. Then we'll have to take the referendum debate another time. But no one should doubt that the Center Party is an open party, wanting good cooperation between independent states.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1097	Just briefly, as I did not receive an answer to my challenges to the Council of State concerning the EU Acquisitions Directive: The two occasions the government has had to explain to the Storting what this means, and what the space for action for Norway is, as far as I can see, it has allowed itself to go by, both in the context of the revised state budget and in this statement. During this debate, there has probably been a lot to answer to the Council of State. I want to give him a new chance to say something about how we have followed up this work, what the action space for Norway is, and why the government, when it now announces new offers in the field of child protection, does not take advantage of the action space – pending the entry into force of the Directive in 2016 – but only announces a tendering period that is so short that it only applies until the date of entry into force of the Directive. As we understand, there is no retroactive effect on this directive, which means that a much longer tendering period could actually have been chosen. I believe this is an important matter for Stortinget to be told. Now is also the current state council I mentioned in my previous post, here, so it is possible to put your heads together and give the Storting a real answer to: what is the action room, and how do you apply by the government to make maximum use of it? It would have been interesting to get an answer to that, if the Council of State also considered this to be an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1106	I will try to stun the yes-man inside me, as I still believe that this should not be a debate on Norwegian membership of the EU or not, although there are some in this room who are trying to make it into it. I am a little provoked when the representative of the Central Party, Liv Signe Navarsete, suggests that this government is doing what it can to adapt and sort of settle for what it was unable to do in 1994, to get Norway into the EU. That is certainly not what this is all about. I can only see that it is very positive that we have had a revitalised European debate, and that this government has taken hold of this offensively and promotes Norwegian interests. Here I would also like to point out that Norwegian interests are not equivalent to the Central Party's party policy programme. It must be a misunderstanding if someone believes it. It is very much in agreement with the EEA Agreement, with the Schengen cooperation and with the other agreements we have with the European Union. That is how we regulate Norwegian relations with the EU. In addition, I will conclude by commenting on the short debate on social security exports. There's no big problem in practice, but it's left a feeling that this is something that's going on in the sense of justice. It was also one of the points of free movement across borders, that one should have free movement of labour and not the free movement of social-security shoppers across borders. That is why it is indeed an important debate, although it does not have the very great practical consequences. It is a debate that is taking place not only in Norway but also in Denmark, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe, and it is a debate that is important, because it is about the basic principles of European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1117	I have to say, it is somewhat alarming that the representative of Navarsete today has made it clear that, as the Council of State, she knew about the sector exemptions, but saw no reason to make it known to the Storing or the public, and that she first engaged with the EU after the EU had taken the decision. If we are to stand up to Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the European Union, yes, we must talk to the European Union, and then we have to talk to the European Union in time. With regard to the issue of public acquisitions, there is another example of the decision being taken last summer and that we are now discussing the possibilities within the decision that has been taken. There we make a very thorough assessment, because we believe that this is a serious issue. It is important that we can continue the extremely central role of NPISHs in Velferds-Norway, and that is why we are going into the matter carefully to see what opportunities we have to continue their role, including in public tender procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1124	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1140	The aim of the Workers' Party is to enable everyone to participate in society and have the opportunity to live good, meaningful and independent lives. It is important for individuals, but also for us as a society, because we become a richer and more diverse society whenever possible. For the Workers' Party, freedom is a fundamental value. Our whole story has been about creating more freedom for everyone. That is why the fight for increased availability and inclusion was also a high priority of the red-green government, such as the United States and Japan. develop an action plan in this area. The last action plan included:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Universal design is the expression of a social value of equality. By providing universal design for societal development, this creates a better and more equal environment for people with disabilities. Furthermore, it leads to societal qualities that are positive for all citizens and for Norway as a society.’ It's a fantastic formulation that says something about what values we're going to build on: equality, inclusion and accessibility. It's about giving people freedom – the freedom to choose for yourself where to live, the freedom to visit friends and family and the freedom to live independent lives. Many of us take these freedoms for granted, but the truth is that the residential area is one of the central areas of society where people with disabilities are discriminated against and do not have the same opportunities as others. Fortunately, history shows that we've come a long way. In the 1960s, politicians swore to special homes as the central instrument, but fortunately, with the 1972 notification of housing, the idea of self-government was broken. Now you would rather set up the ordinary living environment so that some people are or can become disabled. The concept of ‘standard of living’ was introduced in the 1980s, but it was not until 2001 that we really got a paradigm shift with the NOU ‘From user to citizen’. The cartel of widespread discrimination recommended a number of measures, including: strengthening the provisions on accessibility in the Law on Planning and Building. In 2009, Stortinget finally adopted extensive tightening of the availability requirements. There was a collective municipal committee that wrote in the setting: ‘The Planning and Building Act is the most important law to make anti-discrimination and accessibility laws operational in the areas where society creates disability barriers.’ At that time, all the parties agreed on the requirements for availability, so now the government wants to take us back in time and introduce weaker requirements for availability. That's worrying, because today people in wheelchairs can only use about 10 pst. of the dwellings. 12 years ago, it was 7 pst. Evolution is slow. If we now reduce the availability requirements, this development will be even slower. That is why the proposal is in stark contrast to the objective we have set of a universally designed society by 2025, and it is in stark contrast to the authorities' legal obligations through the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Convention recognises, inter alia: the possibility for disabled people to choose their place of residence. The Norwegian authorities have an obligation to take action to comply with that right, and it is the Council of State Horne who is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Convention. That is why I hope that the Council of State, which has a coordinating responsibility for gender equality policy, today says that it is her job to ensure that disabled people are not excluded from the housing market through reduced availability requirements. While it is important to be able to choose where you want to live, people must also have the freedom to care for the social community with friends and family. Today, almost nine out of ten dwellings are inaccessible. It means that many people do not have the freedom to visit those they want and to care for their social community. Therefore, the requirements for new dwellings must not be weakened; we need more accessible dwellings. There's a lot we don't know about the future. We have no guarantee that we who are healthy today will be there forever, and we don't know which of us one day might need help. Then it's a good investment to build homes that allows us to live at home if one day we get bad. It'll save society a lot of money, because it's expensive and arduous to rebuild the dwelling if one day you get sick or a relative needs it. There are some things we know about the future, and that's that we're getting older and older. The population aged over 80 is tripled in Norway until 2060. It's a great sign that we live in a good society, but it also challenges us to think new. Many older people want to stay at home longer, and then it's a good investment for us to invest in life-cycle housing that makes it possible. More accessible dwellings will give many people a simpler life. The accessibility requirements give us bottom-up benefits, whether we go, sit in a wheelchair, are visually impaired or are in a baby carriage. Universal design is just that – a design for all of us. Both what we know, and what we don't know, speaks for us to have to build accessible dwellings to meet the future. It's a good social economy, it gives us better living quality, and it contributes to security and freedom. State Council Horne gave a speech last week at the National Conference of County Councils. Then the councils talked about universal design. The Council of State said, among other things: the proposal to reduce the requirement for snub circles should not create problems for anyone. My question is, does the Council of State seriously mean when she says that? It should be clear that today’s snub circle requirements are based on wheelchairs to be used both indoors and outdoors, so that disabled persons can use the same facilities in different situations. These kitchen chairs do it, among other things. possible to get out of the house without changing the chair, and it provides opportunities for independent lives for many people. Over 75 pst. by those who use electric wheelchairs, these wheelchairs are fitted with these. With the government's proposal for a 130 cm snub circle, these chairs won't be able to turn around. So the government's proposal will prevent users of the most common type of wheelchair from using the dwellings. That's why I don't think it makes sense when the government says that the universal design principle of housing availability should be firm, because the proposal to reduce the area of the snooping circle involves significant restrictions on the ability of people with reduced mobility to have equal lives. The Labour Party builds its policy on the idea that all people are born free, unique and inviolable. Through our policies, we should contribute to the freedom of individuals. Our policies should reflect and respect diversity, and everyone should have equal opportunities. I am therefore proud to live in a country that has set itself the goal of our society being universally designed in 2025. One of several important measures to achieve this goal is more accessible housing that gives people the freedom to choose where to live, the freedom to visit friends and family, and the security to live in their own homes even if you get sick or need help. This issue is both about gender equality policy and what housing policy we are going to have. Is it a goal of this government that the housing can be used by all of us with the freedom to live good and social life? Councillor Horne is responsible for policy coordination in terms of inclusion and accessibility. So my question to the Council of State is, how does she intend to achieve the goal of a universally designed society and comply with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities while the government says it wants to weaken the requirements for access to housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1178	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate on equality, equal opportunities and social participation. Universal design and accessibility are important for a broad societal participation of disabled people. There should be no doubt as to what this government believes about universal design and accessibility for disabled persons. In the government statement of Sundvolden, we say that we should continue to work for a universally designed society, and that is something I can assure the interpellant that I will do so, and I as the Minister of Coordination have this high on the agenda. Norway has been and is a leading country in this area, and the government has ambitious targets for the future. Norway has been at an early stage in defining a lack of universal design as discrimination in discrimination legislation. As the interpellant is also familiar with, we have now started work on developing a new, universal equality and non-discrimination law. Universal design rules will be maintained in order to ensure effective protection of persons with disabilities against discrimination. There are fundamental changes in the way we communicate. Information and communication technologies open up new opportunities for equality if we take care of them. The government also places emphasis on universal design within ICT and will ensure that digital solutions do not discriminate but provide equal opportunities for all. I am concerned about the possibilities of universal design for individuals, but also for society. These are qualities that are positive for everyone, but especially important for people with disabilities. In the years to come, we will also have a change in population. It becomes, as the interpellant was also about, several older ones, who through a long life have had reduced vision, hearing and movement. At the same time, it can hit every one of us when we know the least, and so we can become dependent on the tools. Many older people want to work, participate in society and have an active life. Most people want to live at home in their own apartment for as long as possible. An important means of facilitating this is universal design. We need jobs, collective means of transport, homes and neighbourhoods that everyone can use. In its interpellant, the interpellant refers in particular to the work now being done in simplifying the construction regulations. As the interpellant is aware, this is a matter which is the responsibility of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. He has also previously informed Stortinget about the work on simplifying the construction regulations. I nevertheless allow myself to give a brief summary of the information previously provided by the State Council Jan Tore Sanner to Stortinget in this matter: The Government has notified simplifications in the Planning and Building Act with regulations and a review of the effect of building regulations on the price and construction activity of the smallest dwellings. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation will now submit proposals during May for new provisions to be consulted, where reduced snooping will be among the proposals. The plan is that these changes can be implemented at the end of the year. However, the State Council of Sanner, in its communication with the Stortinget, underlined the firmness of the principle of universal design and accessibility. He has also expressed his concern that the proposed changes should be developed through knowledge-based processes, including: in cooperation with the construction industry, stakeholder organisations and, in particular, users. Although the State Council of Sanner reports that there will be a proposal for a reduced snub circle for wheelchair users, no final political decision has been taken on this. A knowledge-based process, which also includes cooperation with different parties and a broad consultation, will form the basis for a decision taken at the turn of the year. As Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion with the coordinating responsibility for universal design policy and accessibility for people with disabilities, it is important for me that any simplifications do not create barriers for anyone. The assessments carried out in the process shall be based on facts and thorough analyses. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, in cooperation with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has therefore undertaken various research and investigation projects for this purpose. Data and research results are collected from other countries that may help to elucidate accessibility requirements for people with disabilities. More than 30 years have passed since their own Norwegian attempts to map, among other things. the need for space when using a wheelchair. Now a completely new attempt is being made in this area. This experiment takes place at the Norwegian Research Laboratory for Universal Design at the University of Gjøvik. These tests involve 55 wheelchair users with a representative sample of wheelchair models used in Norway today. The selection of chairs shall be carried out in consultation with experts in Nav. Gjøvik University is doing a very important job in this field. They have also added other work to carry out these tests quickly so that the results can be included in the overall knowledge base for the simplification work. The price and construction activity of the smallest dwellings are key reasons for assessing the cabs for availability in the building technical regulation. Some parts of the construction industry argue that the prices of small dwellings increase significantly when accessibility is required, leading to a decline in demand and under construction activity. I have noticed that there is disagreement among the experts about the price-driven effect requirements on availability and on reasons for reduced construction activity. I therefore assume that this is thoroughly analysed and documented, so that all the positive and negative effects of current simplifications in construction regulations are present in the consultation and decision-making process. The government aims to reduce bureaucracy, eliminate time thieves and simplify legislation, but at the same time we must also be willing to take the cost of setting quality requirements that will have a positive impact on individuals, families and society as a whole when necessary. I look forward to a good debate. It is important that we have universal design on the agenda in Stortinget, that we have a good debate on this. This can affect us at any time, and those who need universal design must have the same rights and opportunities as everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1232	Thank you very much to the Council of State for your answer. I'm looking forward to the rest of the debate. I agree with the Council of State that universal design is important for a broad participation in society, I agree with the Council of State when she says that we need housing that everyone can use, and I agree with the Council of State that everyone should have the same rights and opportunities. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that the final decision has not been taken. I hope this debate will also be included when the government will make its final assessment, and that there will be a broad and good consultation round. So the Council of State says that construction regulations are on the mayor's table. That is true, but the Horne Government Council has a coordinating responsibility for policy in this field and a responsibility for complying with the UN Convention. It also obliges the Council of State. There were many fine words, but unfortunately few concrete measures. We need tools, and I repeat that when the Stortinge dealt with the changes in the Planning and Building Act in 2008, a joint committee stressed that the Planning and Building Act is the most important law to make the Anti-Discrimination and Accessibility Act operational in the areas where society creates barriers to the disabled. I think the Council of State should notice that, because it is precisely this law with regulations Right and the Progress Party is now taking the order to weaken. Then I hear that the Council of State repeats the message we have heard before, that the principle of universal design and accessibility is firm. But it's becoming a contradiction. The principle and availability are not established if many people who currently use wheelchairs are unable to use the housing and do not have the same choice on the housing market as others. That's like 75 pst. by those using electric wheelchairs will be excluded from the ordinary housing market if the changes to the government enter into force. I could imagine challenging the Council of State on one more thing, that is, what's on the action plan. The Red-Green Government action plan was launched last year and an action plan is an important and good tool. The Council of State replied to a written question at the beginning of April that the government had not decided whether a new action plan was wanted. This uncertainty is alarming, for we know that the previous action plan had a good impact. The evaluation concludes that the broad focus of the action plan in many sectors has produced good results and contributes to achieving the vision of a universally designed society. It is a clear recommendation that the plan of action should be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1247	The interpellant here is the construction regulations that are now being sent out to the hearing. What is important in this debate is that the principle of universal design and the availability of housing should be established. Nevertheless, there is a need to assess whether some of the housing rules can be simplified. I am very pleased that the Minister for Modernisation includes both organisations and users, and that this should be research-based before drawing a conclusion. But I can assure the interpellant that as the Minister of Coordination in this important field, there is a process that I am going to follow closely, and in particular what is now being sent out to the hearing and the hearing opinions we receive, before the final decision is taken. The interpellant was aware that there were very many fine words. I can once again assure the interpellant that universal design is a work that this government sets high. At the same time, it is important that universal design operates in a wide range of fields – also in municipalities and county municipalities, considering their plans to influence the physical environment for universal design. Nevertheless, universal design shall be aimed at promoting equality and equal opportunities by removing barriers. We need to find solutions that are better for all user groups, we need to prevent discrimination, ensure compliance with the laws, and design good solutions. When it comes to developing a universally designed society, – as I said – very many of the remaining challenges lie within the municipal and county areas of responsibility. I would recommend looking at the National Universal Design Development Project in counties and municipalities. It is a report published by the Ministry of the Environment at that time. So there's a question of what kind of plans the government has in the future. At national level, the government is now assessing how we are going to be able to raise universal design further. It is an important department – not just mine – but it takes place in both the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I have the coordinating responsibility. As the interpellant was involved, the existing action plan expired in 2013, but we are now assessing how we can continue to do so through a new action plan or by other appropriate means. What I can assure the interpellant of is that universal design is high on the agenda for me as the Council of State, but also for the entire government. It's a work that we're going to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1260	First of all, thanks to the interpellant who travels a matter of great principle – we agree – and practical significance. The matter is about the right to be included. We should have come so far in Norway today that this human right was a matter of course. Unfortunately, it isn't yet, but there has been reason to believe that the day was within reach – in 2025 – but now I'm starting to fool. Let me take a little bit of a look back. We're not going back any further than 2008, especially on 10 June. It's one of those days in my afterlife as a politician that I'm going to remember forever. In fact, Odelstinget adopted the Act prohibiting discrimination on grounds of disability, usually called the Anti-Discrimination Act. I believe that now, following the government's attack on the universal design of new dwellings, there is reason to recall the real name of the law: the prohibition of discrimination because of disability. I remember it the way it was yesterday. The gallery here was full. After the debate, the red-green labour and social fraction invited to a large celebration with soft cake together with the then Minister, Anniken Huitfeldt, and representatives of the organisations. Because that was really reason to celebrate. In the elevator afterwards I met affected users who cried, and who said: Finally, it is our turn! Then I actually felt that I had been involved in something historic, that I had really contributed to making a difference for people. One of the many important demands that were recognised as completely legitimate that day, of a unanimous increase, was the right to choose housing – for all. Rome was not built in one day; it was all clear. We had, like now, a housing stock that was not designed for people with disabilities at all. Of existing dwellings, there were only 7 pst. qualified for the term ‘universally designed’. We realized that setting requirements for upgrading existing dwellings to universal design was a long canvas to bleach. But for new dwellings, yes, there we could make demands, and it was done. Now, just five years after the Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination on the grounds of disability entered into force, the blue-blue government is attacking this right. When we in the opposition have called for issues from the government, the standard response to lack of enforcement has been that the government has been sitting too short, that changes take time. Then we also have to be allowed to conclude that what is actually being done is what is at the top of the wish list. And one of the things that is at the top of the wish list for this government is to reverse the universal design requirement for new dwellings. I would like to remind you that it is not so terrible long since this has actually been heard. I therefore find it appropriate to remind the Council of State of the following proposals, promoted by the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left during the 2008 Odelstningsbereich: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the universal design deadline for new buildings from 1 July 2009 will be considered as an exact deadline.’ Was there any progress party just standing by in opposition? I would also, as strongly as I can, appeal to the government's cooperation parties in the Great Britain – the Christian People's Party and the Left – to remember what they themselves proposed, and to ensure that the government they have brought to power can not only nullify the requirement of universal design of new dwellings through a regulatory change. The ban on discrimination in the housing market is ensured both by the new Planning and Building Act and by the Anti-Discrimination Act. It is the will of the Greatness that is expressed in these laws. The government should respect that. The Minister of Local Affairs has tried to minimize the changes he has proposed in the building regulations. He has, among other things, shown to Sweden, where you operate with a 130 cm wheelchair snuzzle. However, the disability organisations in Sweden have refuted that this is enough for today’s wheelchairs, as is the case in Norway. Those wheelchairs Nav delivers all of them, most of them, ideally require a 180-cm snub circle. The organisations that are now to be heard have already expressed their views, and they propose a compromise of 150 cm. It should be listened to by the government, especially when the government will reverse the universal design of dwellings on failing conditions. I would like to encourage the Minister of Inclusion, and indeed the Minister of Municipal Affairs, to read the Sintef report on the government's own website. It has the title: not so expensive anyway. On my own account, I'd like to add: it's no shame to turn around in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1284	In June 2008, the Stortinget passed the Act prohibiting discrimination on grounds of disability, or the Discrimination and Availability Act, as we usually call it. It was the red-green government that promoted the bill, which was thoroughly prepared through public investigations and legislative committees. I think all the parties thought it was an important day to promote equality for people with disabilities. The parties agreed on the large lines, but on several points they disagreed on whether the instruments introduced by the law went far enough. Not least then opposition parties, current government parties, were keen proponents, and one of the proposals from, among others. The party of progress was, as the previous speaker said: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the universal design deadline for new buildings from 1 July 2009 will be considered as an exact deadline.’ The parties also had a proposal to set a time limit for the organisation of existing buildings and structures. Today, the debate is somewhat different. Now the government wants to help ease the requirements for universal design of new dwellings. The argument is that there are only a few of the dwellings being built that are inhabited by people with disabilities — why make general demands, which apply to all? Disability organisations are very critical of how the government administers the Discrimination and Accessibility Act. They show that only 10 pst. of our housing stock is adapted to the needs of the disabled. They say that if the law is not followed up for new dwellings, we will not get up this share. Organisations also point out that universal design is necessary in order to provide housing with the standard of living. Visitors with physical impairment also depend on the universal design of the housing stock. The construction industry is a driver for reduced universal design requirements. They believe that the requirements lead to more expensive dwellings and that especially the smallest dwellings, which are the entrance of young people to the housing market, are unnecessarily expensive. This is an argument we have to take into account, but not all the emphasis on, when we're going to balance the interests. The interpellant is raising an important debate that we, on the part of the Central Party, are pleased to be taken up. We are aware that there have been critical voices from both the construction industry and the current government parties that the building regulations under the Central Party's management of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs have made stricter requirements for the organisation of disabled people. Our government councils have followed up the Storting's demands for the implementation of the Discrimination and Availability Act and have been criticised for it. Initially, I pointed out the strong commitment of the Progress Party to strengthen the universal design law by imposing stricter requirements on deadlines for implementation. I was therefore excited about the comments of the Council of State today. It's been six years since the new law was passed. Six years is a long time in politics. I might have thought, however, that political memory was a little better than what the Council of State showed today, in its defense of weaker demands for universal design of dwellings. I do not reject the fact that a less restrictive interpretation of the requirements of the building regulations for universally designed dwellings can be an advantage to many of us, but we are taking a step back in relation to the law Stortinget put so much emphasis on putting in place in June 2008, when the Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination on grounds of disability was passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1304	This issue is about freedom for the individual and about that freedom for everyone, whether we have to change society in order for it to be possible – because it has the Storting realized that we have to. We've given them to the government. That's why I was really startled – it's probably a parliamentary expression, but it doesn't quite describe what I felt – when I heard that the government, as the first government I've heard of, will weaken the quality of the homes, which is a strange program to have, and by it also reduces the already very limited freedom that people need wheelchairs have to choose their homes freely, to go to whom they want, or to receive visits from whomever they want. That's what this is all about. It is not about people with disabilities living their lives in the public sector, in the Nav sector or in the care service. They're supposed to be able to use the whole community and have a private life, just as freely as we are. I thought at first that this was a mistake, that you hadn't really got into it, sail if there were reports on the government's website from before, that show that these horror reports that have come, about how expensive this should be, don't vote, and there have been other reports in addition. But when I hear the Council of State's response here today, where it is clearly a surprise that the aids that are given to most people who need a wheelchair are greater than the requirements that are now being introduced, I wonder: What in the world is there for the kind of coordination that this Minister has done in this area? Have you at all been inside it? I'm interested in hearing about what kind of recording the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has given to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation – it's a little strange to say modernisation in this context, I think, because this is really a step backwards – and what kind of studies the department has done, before it has been able to put its mark on how to continue working on this, when it will mean that most of those who will be able to benefit from such a rule, are nevertheless out of the question? I also want to say that we actually have enough inaccessible dwellings. We probably have inaccessible dwellings in this country -- we have a lot of that, we don't need any more. We've been building it all year. What this requirement is all about is not even universal design in all dwellings. It's about availability. Throughout the developed world – I want to repeat it: throughout the developed world – there are requirements for at least 1.5 meters of snorkeling. After all, Sweden is all alone in having these low-bone requirements, which the organisations report back that they are not working. And why in the world are we going to continue to use things that are useless, that hinder the freedom of individuals, who have waited long enough to have the same freedom as we others have? How long will they have to hear that it's too expensive? I've seen a lot of these calculations about whether you pay or not. I know at least that most of us don't pay off, if we count on it. So it's not like we can sit down and figure out these things. We have to build something that keeps good quality in different areas, and that ensures what we've all agreed on. I assume, almost, that the government is scraping this proposal. It must, if not broken the law and the promises of a total greatness have given in this area. And I'm very surprised that the Left and Christian People's Party is not part of this debate today. I have to say that is alarming and dangerous for the matter. Then there's one more thing that's waiting, and that we have to have in place if we're to ensure availability, and that's the supply of goods and services. An investigation of what I know is in the department. I also know that the calculations crack in all directions. But without that in place, we have not implemented what we have committed ourselves to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1319	Thank you very much for the debate. I'm very pleased that the red-green parties express strong support for today's demands for accessibility and the work of a universally designed society, but I must say I think it's sad that the supporting parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have deployed this government, have not participated in such an important debate. I think it may be even more serious that no representative of the government parties in the Chamber has taken the floor and defended what is the government's proposal, perhaps saying what they really think. It is disappointing that the Minister for Gender Equality and Inclusion is unclear about important rights for people with disabilities. The Council of State points out that the county councils and municipalities have a responsibility – I fully agree with that – but it is therefore a government that adopts laws and regulations, frameworks, for all things. Governments are still saying that an action plan is being assessed. How long should you evaluate that? The evaluation is clear that we need a new action plan. The Council of State says this is high on the agenda. Yes, then I expect action, I expect you not to go back in time and introduce the worst availability requirements we've had. So the Council of State says that this government is concerned with simplifying. Then I ask, who is the Council of State concerned with simplifying everyday life? It's obviously not the people who need accessibility. It's going to be quick for someone to draw up the cost debate. There are many reports that point out that building dwellings with good availability is not much more expensive. Then it's perfectly legitimate that parts of the construction industry argue for their place of stand. But as politicians, we have a responsibility to see the whole picture, to think completely. Then we also have to take with us the costs society will save on building accessible housing – savings for society in terms of reducing the need for housing or the costs we save by not rebuilding the house if we one day experience that we ourselves or others are being damaged and need help. We must also take into account that we must build a society for everyone, where everyone has freedom and security, and it is a value that it is difficult – absolutely impossible – to put a price tag on. Because it's basically about what society we want, and whether there's enough political will to create a society for everyone, where everyone can participate and live a good life. The political will records me on the red-green side. Now it's up to the citizens to prove that they too have the political will.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1334	I would like to thank you for a short but good debate. I just want to mention, too, that with the new universal equality and anti-discrimination law that we are now working on – which the previous government did not take care of – the law will be reinforced for those who need these rights. With the new law, I want to have a big focus on a enforcement device, so that for those who break the law, it has consequences. When it comes to the supply of goods and services, it becomes a natural part to look at this when we create the new law. Freedom for the individual was within the interpellant – yes, it is important for the Progress Party and for this government. Let me make it quite clear: the principle of universal design and the availability of housing must be established, but there is still a need to assess whether some of the rules we have for housing can be simplified. We will also consider changing the requirements for the wheelchair snuzzle in homes from 150 cm to 130 cm, as it is in Sweden. It may not work in Sweden, but at the same time – when several people ask what I do as a Minister of Coordination in this area – I would like to stress that my department is in close contact with the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation in this important work. That's why we've also started the Gjøvik High School in research into this. Since it's been 30 years since we've had a review and have had Norwegian attempts to map, among other things. The need for space when using wheelchairs, I am pleased that the Norwegian research laboratory is now conducting these tests with 55 wheelchair users who have a representative sample of the wheelchair models used in Norway today. The results of this will be an important part of the further work on these regulations. Now these regulations are being sent to the hearing. It will be exciting to see the feedback on this, but I am very happy that as a government we have close and close dialogue with both users and organisations – and not least that this will be a research-based work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1344	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1360	The number of takeovers is increasing every year. From 2008 to 2012, the number of annual care measures increased from 7,877 to 8,995. This is an increase of the entire 14 pst. in five years. For the Progress Party, the biological principle is strong, and a greater effort must be made on prevention. The background of the interpolation is two-part. First, I am concerned that every child is growing up in a safe home. Children are vulnerable and have a special need for protection and care. This should be a requirement for children. By removing current parental consent requirements in order to provide assistance, the child will still have the opportunity to obtain assistance from the protection of children where parents oppose this. Second, I'm busy with the families. Families must not split if they can learn to deal better with their children with some help. I want to make sure that we do everything we can to reduce the need for takeovers. Auxiliary measures without consent are based on a minor but significant adjustment of the applicable law. After the law of the day, child protection services shall provide assistance to the child and the family when the child is particularly in need, due to the circumstances of the home or for other reasons. Auxiliaries at home require the consent of the child’s parents, while some assistance outside the home is exempted from this requirement. Acceptance of care is a measure exempted from parental consent. The consequence of this is that child protection only has one means of ensuring the child’s best, where parents do not cooperate, and that is to move the child. We will give relief measures a strengthened position to prevent such an outcome. The proposal does not imply a change in the right and obligation of child protection to conduct home examinations. Furthermore, relief measures are still to be initiated only when the circumstances of the home or the child’s particular needs so warrant. When aid measures are launched, I believe it is important that sufficient time be given to assess whether the measure has an impact on the family. These measures must aim to address the challenges facing families and also target parents where parents need follow-up. It is very important for the Progress Party to ensure the legal certainty of the family in relation to child protection. Studies, following current legislation, shall not be more extensive than their intended purpose. This provision must be complied with so that families are not monitored for a longer period of time without problems at home being detected by the protection of children. Furthermore, the statutory requirement for a time-limited action plan should be followed and the plan should be made available to the family. Contact with child protection can be seen as a difficult impression, which can be remedied by providing the family with tangible information on measures and length of implementation. The solution we are now presenting gives the child greater opportunity to get relief than the current legislation provides, and the Children’s Ombudsman has given his consent to it. We know that with today's laws, parents who refuse to accept help at home do not always do so because they do not want to cooperate; they do so because they have faith in their own power and resources to be parents themselves, without knowing the consequences of thanking no. A serious consequence of saying no is that the only way out is to take the child out of the family. A number of families with children and parents have approached me with just this as a rug. They didn't know what that meant. The protection of children cannot enter the home without the consent of the parents in order to provide assistance. We want to create a new step that becomes an intermediate solution when not everything is black and white. At the same time, however, child protection must be able to provide good care and help at home, by becoming a co-player. There must also be greater tolerance in order to spend a little longer time giving relief measures, provided that one does not talk about gross violence or abuse, because then the child will have to leave quickly. It's told me that in today's system, it's often that you have a few hours of conversations with your parents, you might observe half a day or one day at home, and within four weeks the child is relocated. As I said, provided that we are not talking about gross violence or abuse, child protection must give greater opportunity to spend a little longer time helping families. We also know through a number of Focal Points documents in the last six months and a number of requests that this is an increasing problem. We also know that the children in question score less when it comes to both school and health status. The children it's about, deserve to get an extra chance, by enabling parents, where possible, to become good caregivers. Will the Council of State contribute to the start of work already in 2014 on a legislative change that will increase the possibility for child protection to provide the necessary assistance, even without parental consent – in line with the Government Platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1388	I would like to thank the inter-pellant Stordalen for the important input into a very important debate. The aim of the work of the Child Welfare Service is to ensure that children and young people living in conditions that could harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner. The aim is to help children and young people to have safe and healthy growth conditions. Auxiliary measures are important in the work of the Child Welfare Service to achieve precisely these objectives. Auxiliary measures shall help the children of the family and prevent any more invasive measures. Helping at home is the most widely used measure in Norwegian child protection. About 80 pst. of the relief measures were implemented at home during 2012. This is also consistent with the starting point of the Child Protection Act. The principle of law is that children should grow up with their biological parents and that assistance under the Child Protection Act should be provided primarily at home. Support measures at home shall always be assessed before more comprehensive action is taken. It is important to pay attention to this precisely in order to be able to prevent more serious situations and more invasive measures, such as: take-over of care. The purpose of implementing family relief measures is to contribute to a positive change between the child and the family. It is important to find measures that strengthen family resources, and in that case both measures aimed at the needs of the child and measures aimed at improving the caring capacity of parents must be taken. The wording of the provisions of the Child Protection Act on relief measures has been amended as from 1 January of this year, so that the purpose of contributing to a positive change in the child or family is to make clear the law. Parents are the most important people in children’s lives. I am concerned that we have to give parents who are struggling, the support they need to be good caregivers for their children. Measures that strengthen interaction and association between children and parents, we know that care failures can be prevented. We also know that the first years of life are of great importance to the development of children. It is therefore important to pay particular attention to children under the age of six. As a general rule, support measures are voluntary. Voluntary measures must always be considered before coercive measures are taken. It is important to build trust between the family and the child protection service. Norwegian child protection legislation and practices are based on the principle of cooperation and voluntary assistance and support for children and young people. As a result, access to relief measures is scarce, but relief measures may be imposed by the county council in some cases. The preparatory work of the Child Protection Act describes the importance of providing assistance in cooperation with the family. The reason for this is that the implementation of relief measures against parents’ will often be difficult. Cooperation between child protection services and parents is considered important for the provision of a function of relief measures. Extensive use of coercive measures can challenge the trust of parents in child protection. Therefore, the starting point for the service of child protection is cooperation on voluntary, appropriate and adapted relief measures. We have recently seen an increase in the use of emergency decisions. I believe that the value of volunteering in determining relief measures must be balanced against the child’s need for safe growth conditions and the right to timely assistance. The best interests of the child shall always be decisive in the selection of measures under the Child Protection Act. The Government Platform shows that the government will have to increase the availability of child protection to provide the necessary assistance, including without consent, where necessary to prevent takeover by care. The most important thing is to help the children who need it. We know that taking care is a very interventional measure. In order to be able more effectively to prevent takeover by care, it may be necessary to be able to impose additional relief measures than at present. This will ensure that adequate and effective assistance measures are established in a timely manner, even if the parents oppose it. The current situation is that few relief measures can be implemented under impositions. Subject matter may, if necessary, require action to be taken to ensure that the child remains in a nursery or other suitable day-care facility. The supervisory authority may also be the subject of supervision. Supervision is carried out by the Child Protection Service in the event of notified or unannounced home surveillance. The purpose is to check that children are not subjected to neglect, abuse or abuse. Where supervision is to be imposed, the conditions for taking over of care must be met. In practice, impositions on relief measures are very low. In 2012, a total of only five decisions were taken in the counties that were required for relief measures. In 2013, the corresponding number was two. Last spring, in the debate on Prop.106 L for 2012–2013, the Stortinget joined in the proposal to investigate whether assistance measures should be more likely to be imposed on parents. The background was important proposals from the Raundalen Committee in NOU 2012: 5, Better protection of children’s development. The sample suggested that the subject matter should be able to impose several types of relief measures on parents for a limited period of time. The committee also proposed to lower the current requirement of proof in order to be able to impose supervision at home and to extend the current access to imposition of compensatory measures. The committee made it clear that imposition of relief measures would help to highlight the seriousness of the case for parents, but could also be motivating for parents with change potential. I can already say that I want to extend today's access to impose relief measures. How these changes are to be avoided, I have to find out more. However, in that investigation, important considerations relating to the best interests of children, the value of volunteering and the challenge of coercion must be balanced against each other. I also want to find out more compensatory measures, such as: residency in visiting homes, relief offers, leisure activities or the use of support contacts shall be possible where this is deemed necessary. I would also like to assess whether they should be able to impose regulatory measures. Today, it is not possible to impose such measures. It is based on the idea that volunteering is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of the measures. Lack of knowledge of the measures and fear of receiving help may be grounds for parents to reject them. The conditions under which such measures should be imposed will also be assessed. In addition, I want to consider the possibility of lowering the conditions for imposing supervision. Today, the county council may impose supervision when the conditions for taking care have been met. This means that supervision can only be imposed when the situation of the child is particularly serious. If the strict conditions of the day are relaxed, supervision as an aid may become more appropriate. In response to the inter-pellant’s questions about legislative change, I would like to conclude by informing you that the work on assessing a change in the law on the imposition of relief measures is already well under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1422	I would like to thank the Council of State for her positive attitude towards this interpellation. I know that the Council of State is concerned with children's legal certainty and at the same time with the legal certainty of their parents. With today's system, help at home is based on volunteering. But then there's no doubt that it's a job to send a signal to those who work in child protection, that you actually have to interact and interact better. Today, we know that some people are hesitating to accept help, because it's for some people that mean something scary. Child protection, as I have said before, needs to be seen more as a co-player and become more a co-worker and a helper. When we see developments in child protection matters, the number of child protection cases is increasing in the event of a break-in of life. Because of the conflict between parents, it should be thought that in many cases it should be possible to sit down and go through what is right and what is wrong for the child to listen to, so that, in the interests of the child, you can make your parents talk better together, so as to avoid unnecessary takeovers. That's the worst possible outcome, and that's what often happens today because you don't accept help. You refuse, and then there will be a conflict that will end up with a takeover. When we know the consequences of such relocations, that seven out of ten children score less precisely in school and in education and health, it is profitable for society to stretch out a hand and enable child protection to get that step, which would result, that could prevent and prevent a number of takeovers. Any such thing we should prevent. That the child grows up in and together with the family is absolutely the best. So I believe in better information. There must also be a signal from us that child protection is more of a co-player; it must be made more harmless. But it's a job we have to do together, everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1431	I fully agree with the interpellant's considerations now in this article. Both as a government councillor and after working as a growth representative for four years with this field, I do not know how many despaired parents I have had on the phone – parents who feel overwhelmed by child protection. I had a taxi driver last Saturday who started to laugh on the phone, because he felt completely overwhelmed by child protection, and all he wanted was to be a good parent to his child. At the same time, I have also had many telephones and visits by desperate children who say, Why didn't you come before? This shows that this is complex. So we can't stop working for the best for both the family and especially for the children who need us as authorities there and ensure that they get a safe, good growth. 80 pst. of all help measures taken at home. So those who work both at the health centre, in kindergartens and in school have their most important task of seeing if there are families or children who need help. Then we have to make sure that we have a good device out in the municipalities, and there are a lot of municipalities now that have started their own family centres, where they work across the board. It's My Life Municipalities, it's model municipalities that are really now working across their fields. I think we'll see the results of getting in early and helping the families early. Because maybe the help the family needs is that parents get help being parents. If we can manage to avoid emergency decisions by helping the family, there's one word that means a lot, and there's trust – trust between those who work in child protection, child protection, and the family that needs help. Once there's a breach of trust there, there'll be conflicts, and you won't be able to help the kids who need help. So it's going to be an important task in the future, because what can we do to strengthen child protection and strengthen trust between families and child protection? I am also concerned that we should have legal certainty. That is why I am very pleased that we have now also launched an evaluation of the county council members. We are going to evaluate the Commission of Experts and we are going to introduce self-declaration for the experts. It also helps to create a trust outside of those inside child protection. A lot of work is now being done in the municipalities, but the most important thing we can do as politicians and authorities is to focus on prevention and early onset, to strengthen health centres and get knowledge of those who are going to work with children, so that they see the children, and that we get a whole trust where child protection can come in and help the family at home when it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1444	It's a demanding theme the interpellant addresses in its interpellation. The proposal will involve greater use of coercion in child protection than at present. As the interpellant says in his interpellation, taking care is very invasive and should only be used as the last resort. At the same time, we meet children who say that they should be given a relief measure earlier, and the question is whether we have a system that captures well enough and offers good enough to these children. It is easy to agree that one should put more help in the past, but when the representative Stordalen indicates that the government platform calls for the insertion of relief measures without parental consent and that this should lead to the child being guaranteed the right to help at home, a number of complex questions arise. For, as the Council of State said, trust is a keyword in child protection. And coercive measures often conflict with that. What measures should be taken if parents say no and lock the door? And how do you think a person who enters a home should be able to contribute to change if his parents don't want the person there? Who will decide whether to impose a coercive measure and how to put it into practice? What are the sanctions? And how does this relate to human rights and the law on privacy? The proposal raises a number of fundamentally difficult questions, which need to be thoroughly investigated. I see the articles of the Council of State as just an answer to that. Although we also see here that the review force is greater than the executive force, I am actually pleased that the Council of States is taking the time to review these demanding issues well. The interpellation says that the number of care measures in the protection of children has increased sharply in the last decade. The question is whether this is the reason for the proposal on the table. Yes, child protection has been strong and would have increased in recent years. From 2008, the number of child protection measures has increased by 20 pst. 83 pst. of the measures are auxiliary measures, while only 17 pst. are care measures. There has been a revolution in the offer. The growth in relief measures is 22 p.m., while care measures have only increased by 14 p.m.. The fact that former child-restraint children have poorer health, less education and less pay than average is correct. However, it has to be taken into account that children and families who are users of child protection services are initially different from the average in the rest of the population. According to Prop. 106 L from last year, children in child protection are characterised by coming from home where their parents have a lot of stress and living conditions challenges. There are mental and somatic diseases, concerns, family conflicts, income problems, drug problems and unemployment. However, it cannot be concluded that the living conditions of children with child protection are due to their having been in the care of child protection. We don't have a comparison of how it would go with these kids if child protection hadn't taken over or taken other measures. What we know from other studies, on the other hand, is that socio-economic conditions such as educational levels and income tend to be inherited. We also know that poor finances lead to poorer health and lower life expectancy than average. Child protection still needs attention and continued efforts. The government has so far only talked about it. Actions presented as bets are funded by re-priorities. We're excited about what's going to be the government's bet on this. The proposal referred to here will require a great deal on the allocation side as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1459	First, thank the representative, Mr Stordalen, for addressing this important issue, and thank you to the Council of State, which is following up in an excellent way. There are difficult balances on the issue that are being raised. Forcing someone to receive help to become better caregivers is not without dilemmas. But let's imagine a small family -- maybe a little immature parents, three kids on the rap, some life challenges and a little modest ability to put children and not themselves first. It begins to hail with worry messages – not violence, not beatings, not kicks, but such masonry-in-maiden stuff, how a tackles children who are stressed, language towards children, behaviour and a little lack of empathy. Let's say that this little family was offered help, but said no, perhaps because child protection felt like something scary, or that one couldn't see the children's and their own needs in everything else that happened in life right then – that is, a family a little on the brink, but not quite there yet, children who sorely need help, but who don't get it. This family would probably have slipped on. Maybe it could have been good, but the probability that child protection had to come in later, with the costs it would have for the children who had to wait, is great. What if child protection could have said that we see that these children need help? We believe that parents can become good caregivers, with some help, and we will demand help because the children have the right to get help from us when the nearest ones do not get it – that is, a change from the parents' right to say no to the children's right to get help. If this family got help, maybe some relief, a course on how to tackle the release phase of a child, a reminder that in all family life, as a general rule, ‘children first, parents afterwards’, this story might have ended well. I've seen it work, I've seen families turn around and get out of the dump, and I've seen children get better. I'm glad that the Council of State is now going to start work on giving those who work with these families the necessary tool to secure the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1468	It is an important matter that we are debating here today. It's a lot of balances, it's a lot of dilemmas, but we have to dry up the discussion. Children’s protection cases often start with concerns messages. Children’s issues often start in schools, kindergartens, health centres, and not least through neighbours. When we know that these things that I mentioned now, i.e. state institutions, municipal institutions and neighbors, feel it's hard to report issues to child protection, then we have a challenge. When we know that a lot of people are struggling out there, and all these institutions are looking at this and still feel difficult, it's no wonder that families are hesitating to get in touch with child protection and hesitating to ask for help. They hesitate to ask for the help they need in cooperation with child protection, because they are afraid to end up on the child protection lists, as it is said. When the Children's Ombudsman believes that this as the representative of Stordalen is a good, important and correct solution for many children, it is important that we take this further into consideration in the discussion. Of course, parents and children should be involved in their own affairs, but they need help. But we – and I mean the municipalities – must also have the opportunity to help the children at home and not least in the community, which is also important for children in the difficult situation they are in. The worst thing you can do is take the kids out of your community and force them to move them when they're in this vulnerable and difficult situation. Some children and families also need follow-up — continuous follow-up, perhaps for a longer time. Then help measures in the home are necessary and good measures, as I see it, and based on the signals you get from the outside. To strengthen the family, that the family has faith in itself: we can master this – maybe it's just what's going on. Then we have to spend all the time and knowledge we have, at the best of our children. Caring can be one of the worst things that can happen to the children and their parents. We must be able to say to ourselves that we have tried to help parents and children at home, perhaps using measures that can be difficult, i.e. making adjustments to dilemmas. We have to take the time to look at this. We have to be able to find solutions to this, and then we have to take the children into account. Anything for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1479	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate. I fully agree with those who believe that there are many things that need to be weighed up against each other, but I hope that we can find good solutions. The best interests of children shall always be heavy, and the child protection law is very clear that children are entitled to timely assistance. It is therefore an interesting proposal that the government has on its platform, and that the interpellant addresses today. Until now, relief measures with some exceptions have been voluntary and some parents have to consent to. In many cases, we know that the parents say no, and that child protection is more or less unhelpful, because the problems in the family are not big enough for them to intervene. Child protection then has no choice but to wait for a deterioration in the family or hope that patient work with the parents leads to consent. On the other hand, parents and families with the right to protection against public intervention sit when this is not necessary. That is why, today, we have a child protection law that only allows enforcement as a last resort after attempts at relief measures. There should still be a high threshold for major intervention in the lives of families without their consent. We know that the best thing for the child is that everyone cooperates well to find solutions. Forced to eat mostly the conflict and can make cooperation even more difficult. Therefore, cooperation and volunteering should remain important in the work of child protection with families. This is also for the benefit of children. The Council of State stated the importance of having trust between child protection and home and family, and I fully agree with that. It is important that the people have confidence in child protection, confidence in making good and well - founded decisions. That is why we also have a law that says that aid should be sought before using the last resort, which is care-taking. This gives parents a chance to improve, which many people do. Unfortunately, many do not, and then it is too long for too many children to wait for parents to cooperate and seek relief. Child protection should act in the best interests of the child, and we must also facilitate the intervention of child protection when they see that this is not for the best of the child and that the parents do not show signs of improvement. I also want to include just a little extra moment. In its response, the Council of State was also concerned with the importance of prevention, and I fully agree with the Council of State, but we must not forget post-protection either. The report from NOVA, to which the interpellant refers, provided gloomy figures for child-restraint children, and I agree that early efforts are important to ensure good development and prevent children from following, for example: parental pattern. At the same time, I would like to stress that in cases where child protection has been involved in measures involving large parts of the child’s growth, research also indicates that follow-up after age 18 can be crucial. In other words, strengthening the protection of minors will be important to help young people who have had a bad start in life, into adult life in a good way. In those cases where this happens, we see that more people take higher education, which provides the basis for creating a good adult life. It's the few of us who are quite ready to stand on our own feet once we've turned 18. Of course, this also applies to children's protection. So into this debate, I also want to bring this: Yes, we're going to be concerned about prevention – it's important – but post-protection is also important when we're discussing a matter like this. I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important discussion. And of course, we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1500	The theme that the interpellant addresses is not simple, but equally very important. Care should be taken as a last resort. We need to have a code that makes it easy to work on the minimum-intervention principle, which in practice means that assistance measures should be tried before taking care where this is considered to be professionally justified, which is, of course, the rule today. The main rule that we are debating today, the Children's Protection Act § 4–4, is that help measures are voluntary and require the consent of parents. The consequences of a lack of consent may lead to a long period of time before the child is given assistance, and care failure must be serious before the child protection service is able to do something. It's a dilemma. When parents refuse to accept help, it is also difficult for the child protection service to get in position. Often a whole depends on good cooperation with parents. Therefore, the impact of measures for children against the will of parents is reduced. Following today’s legislation, the county councils may impose implementation of two types of relief measures: child care stays or other own day care for the child and home supervision. If the child is in particular in need of assistance, child protection has an obligation to offer assistance at home. It is the need for the child that is and should be decisive. By refusing this, the legal position of the children is weakened. The dilemma lies in the fact that a possible imposition of relief measures leads to an exception to the principle of voluntary action, which is otherwise stated. That is why, as the Minister said, volunteering and good cooperation with parents must always be tried first, as the promises are also meant to be. The Raundalen Committee proposes in NOU 2012: 5, Better protection of children’s development, that this be extended to other relief measures, and the NOU has a number of points for better child protection, which need to be addressed and followed up. The fact that students are required to be able to impose several types of relief measures is only one of many measures in the distribution. The Government Platform of the Right and the Advance Party states: ‘The protection of children must be given greater access to the necessary assistance, including without consent, where necessary to prevent the taking-over of children’. It is important to clarify that it is not only the child protection service that should have this image, but that the competence should lie in the cells. The statistics are gloomy for children under public care. The fact that as many as seven out of ten children go bad according to a NOVA report says that we do not get the right help at the right time for the children. Several children also believe that child protection should have helped them before. The Left supports the Raundalen Committee's recommendation that the participants be allowed to impose additional relief measures, but will also specify that all means to establish cooperation and volunteering for relief measures must be tried. It's putting the child first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1524	I met someone in Child Protection who told me that it's about coming late as early as possible, and that's what we're talking about. I would like to thank the inter-pellant, and I would also like to thank the Council of State, for raising the matter, and for working on this. It's incredibly important. I have visited a lot of children's protection in my soul, and it was very clear that child protection had to be strengthened. What a lot of children's protection said, was that they didn't have time and resources to help them for whom it wasn't entirely critical. Parents or young people who sailed realized that they needed help were considered to be in a situation where they could not be prioritised with the scarce resources that were. This is one of the reasons why, when we were in government, we strengthened child protection by 800-900 jobs out there, in order to have the capacity to receive everyone and help all the families in a better way. But there are also a lot of children's protection people who have told me, as I hear more people here have also heard, that they are striving that some families where children absolutely need help say no to voluntary relief measures. That is why SV is also concerned that we are following up what the Raundalen Committee said about this. I'm very aware of all the problems that come with this. There are a lot of co-representatives who have been up and talked about it, so I don't have to repeat it. But it's important that it's the best of the child who has to be the leader of what we do, even when parents don't realize what's best for the child. This means having a child-restraint that needs to be strengthened in terms of skills, including: Having the ability to talk to both adults and children in a way that makes you not feel so threatening, and so threatening, is incredibly important. But the fact that more children need action without necessarily being so serious that they have to be moved out of the home, I also think it is quite obvious. And I want those possibilities to be used. Getting the people who work in child protection, as well as those who work in other parts of society, good knowledge and insight into kids who need help, is important. Because it's like that for a lot of us that we don't believe anything in it until we learn how to see it. So I'm very happy with what's being said about continuing to work on this, and that there are different ways to do it, both with supervision and with different measures. If we're going to get this done, I don't think we're going to get away with the fact that the government has to increase the level of child protection in general, to follow up people who are initially skeptical and perhaps also afraid of child protection, is very demanding. These may also be non-Norwegian families with a different cultural background, where the relationship between parents and children is completely different from what we accept in Norway. I think we just have to dry out, because that's the way it is. And then it's also very easy to spread these sinister prejudices about what child protection really is, that there's someone just coming and taking the kids, and that's not there to help you. So how's it going with the babysitting kids? Many of them have a hard time. And we don't know what's due to the difficult childhood or that some of them haven't received enough help from child protection. It can be due to both. But it's hard to conclude that it's just child protection, and what you do in child protection, that's responsible for this. So I very much agree that we're going to be careful about how we're talking about this. I also think it's obvious that those who need follow-up after they're 18, need to get it, because there aren't many who don't need it. Finally, yes, it is true that many come from disadvantaged families, but having a modest ability to put the child first is not something that exists only in disadvantaged people with poor advice. It is found in the best and perhaps also in the so-called best families.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1544	I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an interesting topic. Child protection has been on the agenda for the last six months. Special NRK with its Focus Documents has shown child protection as a strong and powerful authority. The production in the media may be somewhat unhealthy, but this will always be so as long as child protection is subject to strict obligations and has professional and ethical standards. However, there is no doubt that this manager area has an improvement potential. But what the interpellant today invites to debate is something other than what we usually discuss. One assumes that child protection does not have as much potential for the use of power as it might be produced as. It is true that child protection in a particular case has the opportunity to move a child out of the family, but rarely does it focus on the power of parents because they can refuse as many of the assistance measures from the Child Welfare Service — relief measures that also aim to prevent care-taking. We are all aware of some fundamental principles when it comes to the child protection measure, which many people have argued about: that there should be a decisive emphasis on finding measures that are best for the child, that it has a self-esteem for a child to grow up with biological parents, even if there are some who are missing from the world, and that there should be no greater intervention than is absolutely necessary. In this way, one also respects Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights on the Protection of Privacy. This is a central intention of the Children's Protection Act: to protect the family from unnecessary interference. And that's exactly why one of the help measures has put so much emphasis on parental consent. Of course, it is also about the likelihood of achieving good results by introducing measures. When parents are positive about cooperation with child protection, the likelihood of happiness is much greater. However, the question – as the interpellant raises – about the emphasis on volunteering leads to resources being spent on those who want help rather than those who may need it the most. That parents have a full right to refrain from providing help makes the realization of their promise with relief more difficult. When the family is not set to cooperate, the child protection system has two choices: they can put the case aside, or they can file a case for taking care of them. There is no middle ground. Often the first thing happens because the jump to take care is too big, especially if you haven't tried help first. Then the chance is that children who need help, don't get it, absolutely exist. And what do we do with that? My advice to the Council of State is to breathe and think about it before it follows what I perceive as interpellant's desire to suggest as quickly as possible more coercion in the relief measures. It's like, among other things, The representative Aasrud was in on, too many unanswered questions here to have haste. Is it e.g. the right to extend the means of child protection and to allow privacy to go beyond reducing the chances of taking care? Is it entirely possible to get good results when the family is negative for child protection, but is it required to accept? I'm not sure, but it's probably going to be able to impose relief measures to strengthen the legal position of the children. It may not have the same effect as when parents are positive, but probably it would be better than not to do anything at all. And the relief measures imposed are, of course, a milder intervention than taking care of them. It makes it easier to accept it, even though it is in no way unproblematic. Then the question of extending child protection is the least of two evils, where the option may prove to be even more negative for the child. I am pleased with the signal from the Council of State that this should be subject to thorough assessment. This complex issue excites careful treatment, and there should be any need to act in such a way as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1561	I would like to thank you for a good and constructive debate. There are some issues raised, and rightly so. But when it is somehow devalued by the Workers' Party's Rigmor Aasrud and said that only 14 pst. So we're talking about an increase of 1,100 children or 1,100 families. For the Progress Party and me, there are an incredible number, and it is possible that with such a proposal, with an addition to the law, one could prevent some of these. There are also questions about how to manage to enter a home where you refuse consent, cf. privacy. Here we're talking about a golden middleway. That is what happens today if you refuse, among other things. unconscious, you don't know the consequences. That's often what happens. You have this possibility, you have steps and a middle path, and you actually have tools in the toolbox for the benefit of the child and for the benefit of the parents. That's what your intention is. This is not about wanting to facilitate the entry of child protection. And when are they going to come in? Yes, according to the same assessments as today: when you have had out-of-home measures. It is not the case with this proposal that child protection should only enter a home without further delay. It is based on the same assessments, including: by notice of concern. It can't be anything else. I think it's in everyone's interest to bring down the number of possible, unnecessary takeovers. That's the best part. I prioritise the right of children to grow up with their parents and parents to be able to raise their own children and to be good caregivers. That has to be the starting point for everyone. And then there's no doubt that you're going to spend a good amount of time, but you can show you the power to act for it. Me and the Progress Party will not sit quietly in the boat and see that this number is increasing so enormously, for the sake of children's rights and the ability to be with their parents and parents to raise their children. In fact, I want to give a small tribute to SVs Karin Andersen, who said something so nice that the child protection “must be late as early as possible”. That's what this is about. It's not about giving child protection greater power to exercise power, but about giving an opportunity, a "step-by-step", to provide the best possible help at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1576	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for lifting this debate. It is a debate that we in this Chamber have not had as strong before as in an interpellation. Let it be clear: this is not a simple matter. There are many dilemmas that we have to have with us in the further work. At the same time, the main focus here must be on the best of children and what we can do to avoid taking care of them. Then it's to help the family that needs help. But child protection has an obligation at all times to intervene in the families and help the children if there is a risk of care failure. That duty is always going to be there, and it's going to be there. But there were some changes to the Child Protection Act from 1 January of this year, saying that ‘help measures should be aimed at contributing to a positive change in the child’s or family’. That's what's new in the Children's Protection Act. Today, child protection has no means of imposing a potentially changing relief on the family. Today, they may say that they should be offered kindergartens or other facilities, but not make proposals for relief measures that may change both for the child and the family. That's what we're now going to figure out. I still believe that the most important thing here, as I said in one of my posts, is to have focus on trust, getting in early. I want to look at the role of child protection. Perhaps we need to draw family protection much closer into child protection issues, because they can also have measures that can help the interaction within the family. Many family conflicts have a background to a life - style conflict, and family protection has many good programs that provide parental guidance for each family. So I'm very concerned about the increase we have in emergency decisions. As I have said before, we need all the measures that can help, because this has great consequences for families and especially for the child. I am very happy that we are now in revision also strengthening what is happening to the biological parents. We know that you can take care of the parents who lose their children, it's also good for the children. The representative of Aasrud called for action. Yes, this government has come with fresh funds in 2014 – 10 million. DKK for child-restraint school, 10 million. NOK 6,9 million for the improvement of the supervisory regime. kr now for follow-up of biological parents, 3 million. to reduce the processing time for the members of the assembly. So in addition, we've stopped the conversion of the parents and children centers. So this government is dealing with the child protection field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1591	That being the case, it is no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1607	Violence against children is one of the most serious societal problems we have today, and a problem that needs increased efforts and cooperation across sectors. Most cases of violence and abuse against children occur on the spot and by the people who are going to be the safest child has, often in the hidden, without anyone knowing anything and being able to do anything about it. These children carry great secrets and experiences that can cause them great physical and mental damage that can last a lifetime. As a society, we have a responsibility for these children, responsibility for preventing, revealing and helping when we see that it happens. Nevertheless, we know that this is not something that gets a lot of attention, or that creates the big headlines. Violence against children is a social problem that needs to be lifted on the political agenda, for the sake of children. That's what we want to contribute to this interpellation. But violence and abuse against children cannot be prevented only with efforts in one arena. There is a need for cooperation and a common will across sectors. That's why this interpellation is also a collaboration on our part between the family, health and justice fractions. These three sectors, together with school and kindergarten, are essential for preventing, detecting and helping children who experience violence and abuse. In 2012, a violent measurement was carried out, showing that during the one week of the measurement, more than 900 children were exposed to violence. Jens Grögaard, former head of clinic at the children's department of Ullevål Hospital, made an estimate a few years ago in collaboration with the Forensic Institute. They estimated that between five and ten children die each year from damage caused. In two to five cases, the injuries have been caused by caregivers. These numbers shock us all and show us that it's important that we act quickly to do something for these children. Most children go to kindergarten or school, making these arenas important places to discover children who are victims of violence and abuse. Unfortunately, we see that only a little over 5 pst. the child-restraint reports come from kindergartens. I don't think this is because there is no violence against children going to kindergarten, but maybe because we need to equip kindergarten teachers with knowledge of what to look for, while kindergarten teachers and school teachers also have to take into account that this is actually happening in their kindergarten or school. Many people have said before me: you have to believe it to see it. In that case, there is a need for an increase in competence at all stages. We need to ensure that kindergarten workers and teachers know what to look for, and that it is easy for them to make contact with child protection to discuss their concerns and report if necessary. We must make everyone working with children safe to enter into unpleasant conversations with their parents when they suspect something or are worried about the child's situation. This also applies to health care workers. It is important that doctors and nurses can see the difference in which bruises come from falling into the stairs, and which ones may come out of battle and violence. When the assault is a fact, it's important that we have doctors' acute powers of investigation into children who are being assaulted to ensure evidence that can provide punishment. Doctors who are able to perform such studies are important in order to prevent the child from experiencing a new attack, because health professionals are not familiar with normal aftereffects and what should be noted after an assault or violence. The establishment of children’s homes has been an important step towards providing children with legal certainty and facilitating a more judicial process at children’s premises. Children’s homes have a high level of competence in violence and abuse against children and do an important job in the detection — and follow-up — of children and families. Here are adults who have the competence to talk to children and who dare to believe the worst, so that children feel that it is okay to share experiences and thoughts. The competence of children’s homes must be shared with other bodies, and we must strengthen the offers, so that all children who are subjected to violence and abuse – wherever they live – receive support in the legal process and a good follow-up afterwards, either through children’s homes or by other professionals competent in this regard. It is absolutely essential that child protection has enough resources to deal with matters at an early stage, so that domestic violence and abuse cannot develop and persist over a long period of time – as we unfortunately see is the case in many cases. Of the things that come to the children's houses, seven out of ten are already child-restraint cases. Today, child protection is overworked in many places and has many issues. Therefore, the result may be that the cases remain too long. The role of child protection is to protect children from just violence and abuse. Then, as politicians, we have to make sure that they have what they need to do the task, and give help to all children who need it. Child protection is our safety net to catch up with the families where children are not doing well. In the cases we're talking about today, it's especially important that child protection has its job done and has employees who know what they're looking for, and how to handle it. Child protection workers must be given knowledge and must be equipped to address issues where they fear the worst. In order to stop violence against children, we need to promise and cooperate, both we politicians with different disciplines and those who work with this in the field. This needs to be coordinated in such a way that tasks are followed up and efforts are targeted. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether the government will make an action plan – I know there are many action plans – against violence and abuse against children. This is the question asked and raised in this interview. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1635	You don't believe it until you see it. Innocent children are subjected to violence and abuse — and even death — by persons to provide them with security and protection. It's essentially unbearable to think about. The most basic and most important thing for me as Minister of Children is to protect children. Children must have good and safe lives. Most people in our country do, but both research and more concrete things show that this is not the whole picture. I want to thank the interpellant for lifting this topic. Before I go on, I want to get into some things. A new study by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, shows that the extent of violence in close relationships and rape is high. Although this study was conducted among adults between 18 and 75 years of age, it unfortunately shows that serious physical violence and gross sexual assault start in early childhood. It's important to remember that behind all of these numbers, there are people. As much as 30.2 pst. responds that they have been exposed to abscess, squeezing, shaking or beating by their parents or guardians in childhood. 5 pst. has experienced serious violence. They state that they have been beaten up, kicked and or turned on by their own parents. Every twentieth woman and every hundred men state in this survey that they have been raped by the use of force or threats of injury, before they reach the age of 18. One in ten women and one in thirty men reported sexual contact with a person at least five years of age before age 13. 4 pst. women and 1.5 pst. men had experienced sexual intercourse before the age of 13. It is called sexual intercourse when the sexual contact involved attempted or carried out intrusion into the vagina. Rape and sexual contact before the age of 13 were mainly committed by people known to the children. What these numbers show, and as the interpellant points out, is that we're dealing with a big problem. It's a social problem, and it's also a public health problem. Too many children and young people are subjected to violence and abuse — children who have their childhood destroyed here and now, and not least youth and often adulthood. The fact that as many people experience violence and abuse as children, and often from their own carers, as a society, we cannot allow. We must help those affected, and we must prevent new children from being affected. Sick children become sick adults. For this reason, the government will strengthen its preventive action. Early efforts and cooperation across different activities need to be done. Children, young people and their parents shall meet an accessible service apparatus Pre-school teachers, teachers, health sisters, family protection officers, police officers, permanent staff and child protection shall have sufficient professional discretion to detect and speak to children who are not well-off and who are suffering from bad experiences. They must have the courage to act. Services shall actively work to prevent violence and sexual assault. I want to pay tribute to the previous government, which put forward a strategy to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people, Childhood is not going to be reprisals. The strategy was launched by the Stoltenberg II government just before it went off. The strategy contains 42 measures. The government is now following up the plan, and is working to further develop this field during this ageing period. As the interpellant was involved, this is a work that takes place in several departments. Together with the Minister of Knowledge, the Minister of Justice and Preparedness and the Minister of Health and Care, all of whom have individual responsibilities, I am working to find the best and most effective way to respond to the challenges and actions of the strategy. If it will take shape as an action plan, we have not yet concluded. But what is absolutely certain is that this important work will continue. It is important that we follow up on the measures in a good enough way – that it is not just an action plan because it is an action plan. As I said, there are a number of good measures in the strategy. It is faced with four legs: it must prevent, detect, treat and develop research and competence on children exposed to violence and abuse. Children are more vulnerable than adults. They can be violated in so many areas: online, in the group of friends, by adults they trust in free time, in school, by girlfriends, by siblings – the list is unfortunately long. Like the interpellant, I'm impatient in this area. To me, it's the concrete results that are the most important. Therefore, the Government has put in place the following 2014 intervention points: Adults who are in contact with children in their daily activities must learn to talk to children about difficult themes. Professionals, children themselves and various non-profit organisations have long called for children to learn about violence and sexual abuse at school, and for adults to meet children who carry a bad secret. This is why we strengthen the competence of local staff – across services – in talking to children. The Minister of Health and Health and I together allocate funds of approx. $4.9 million. kr to this increase in competence. Regional centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention have been commissioned to set up a multidisciplinary training programme. When this is done, the county is responsible for managing training of different disciplines in the municipalities. We have also launched a cooperation project between the Foundation Alternative to Violence and Bufdir – which is the Directorate – to enhance the competence and treatment capacity of young violent people and children who are subject to abuse in close relationships. The main emphasis of this work will be added to the family protection service, which is a highly competent low-threshold service. In the 2014 municipal bill, the government has also proposed to strengthen the work on mental health, alcohol and health and school health services by 400 million. kr. In addition, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has launched new guidelines for maternity care. Now all pregnant people will be asked routinely about violence and sexual assault. That way, we're going to reach a large group of the population. The last point I want to mention is an offer to the first born at risk. In the United States and in England, they use a very well documented program called Nurse-Family Partnership. It will now be tested in Norway, and that programme will also offer close, long-term and qualified follow-up by specialised trained health care providers to young mothers and fathers who have come out of control and are struggling with complex problems. Help will be provided as early as possible in pregnancy and duration for several years. In addition, children and young people need up-to-date knowledge of sexuality and body, physical and mental violence and sexual abuse. Only by giving children and young people such knowledge can we help them to understand what is unacceptable behavior. They themselves must be given the opportunity to put words to difficult experiences in order to say from and get help. I would like to stress that it is the responsibility of child protection to ensure that children and young people living with violence receive protection and follow-up. For this reason, municipal child protection has been strengthened over several years, and serious cases should of course be reported to the police and followed up in the judiciary. I have mentioned several measures that are a follow-up to the work of the previous government on the Childhood strategy. This will be an important work that both the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Knowledge and I will work with. I have now met in several meetings with child nurses, pediatricians, pre-school teachers and nurses to talk to them and explain what is so clear in the law, what important tasks they have in seeing those children, and what obligation they have to report from. But when we report, we also have to make sure that those children are seen, that those children get the help and the follow-up that they are entitled to. Violence and abuse against children are a social problem and a public health problem that we must take most seriously. There are innocent children who demand that we adults put this high on the agenda, take it seriously and have good measures to help them. The government will intensify the work of the previous government. The aim is to prevent children and young people from being subjected to violence, sexual assault or other abuses. Home safety and care shall be provided for children and young people. They should be able to feel good in their surroundings, in kindergarten and at school. Safe children also become safe adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1705	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I think it is very good to hear that the government has plans to do something, and that she has also taken an initiative to work across departments. I think that's the right way to go. I am aware that there are already plans for, for example: violence in close relations, and the former Minister for Children took a very important initiative that is now to be taken further, if I understand the Council of State correctly. However, this is such an important theme that I would still like to say that an action plan is needed. Yes, we have an action plan against violence in close relationships, but violence and abuse against children is an area that needs its own focus, which has its own challenges and requires its own solutions and measures. In an action plan, we are promised these measures, allocated responsibility and hopefully also time-consuming implementation. This is important to avoid the responsibility being powdered, and everyone thinks that this is on someone else's table, and not on mine. So here, everyone has to be turned around, and then it's clearly a division of responsibilities that's important. Only to point out some things that I think are important to include in such an action plan, if that is how the government will conclude: In an action plan, action such as this should be taken. enhancing the competence of health professionals, teachers and kindergarten teachers to discover more. We need more qualified doctors to investigate children, to speed up investigations and questioning — and in this context to strengthen children’s homes — to improve the follow-up of families at risk, with training in e.g. what can harm a child, and guidance on how to raise children, and, of course, strengthening child protection with both competences and resources. Again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. However, I would venture to make the claim that there is an action plan we should put in place, with our own focus on children, because there is a need for our own solutions beyond what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1718	There's a lot of things we can do here. There are several plans. It is an action plan for which the Minister of Justice has the coordinating responsibility, on violence in close relations, for which the Minister of Children has very much of the means. We have a strategy that the previous government put forward, with 42 measures that it is very important to follow up. So a week ago we had a collection of all the departments that are affected by this. This is a work we are now going to do – how we can manage to put into practice the important work of following up that strategy. And to whether there will be an action plan: I hear that the interpellant is very clear that that is what he wants, and that is a signal I should, of course, listen to and take with me further. I also want to say that this government takes this very seriously, and so we were three councillors who got that report from NKVTS. We were two state councils who received the report from the Children's Ombudsman, where they have conducted large studies on the deficiencies of children and young people in the health sector, and we are, as I said, four government councils who take this seriously. The most important thing we can do is do those who work out there in the municipalities, in the health centres, in the kindergartens, in the schools, and not least in the hospitals, to be able to see the children who need help. And by thus giving competence and knowledge to those who work there, I think we will also reveal more. For these children, we as adults have an obligation to help and see, and then we're going to do what we can to help them when it's revealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1729	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for traveling an important interpellant, and I share a lot of what the interpellant had in its main post. Several good and thorough action plans with both action and responsibility for follow-up, as requested by Mr Becquerade, were implemented by the previous government. Chosen in close relationships were also very high priority of the previous government, and I have great expectations of the new government and councillor Horne in this field. In May 2013, the Stortinget will ever deal with the first big shot in close relations, and just before the red-green government went off, there was a new action plan against violence in close relations, which is also very important, and which needs to be monitored. I also agree with the Council of State that the child strategy that was put forward was good. It works a lot with us, including in collaboration with the government party, and it's very important to us that he is followed up. But for the Labour Party, we may be on our own action plan, but it is also very important to follow up on what we already have. We must then have a good basis for action. One is required to have a good content, based on reliable measures, so that we help the young and use the money in the right place. The Labour Party also believes that the planned scope study, to which the government cut funds, should have started. We propose this in our draft representative on strengthening children's homes, which we are going to discuss here on 10 June. In order to put in place the right and best responses — both prevention and emergency and treatment — to children and young people who are exposed to violence and abuse, we know that we need more knowledge. I have repeated this several times in debates in Stortinget in the last year, and I think this is also central to being able to make a good plan, as Bekkevold calls for. Unfortunately, this money was removed by the government and their partners. By prioritising more knowledge in this area, we risk taking action against outlawed children who are not quite sure enough, and when we know how important it is for better and broader research in this area, it is regrettable that the funds were cut. I just want to remind you in this debate today, that there was a total accumulation that one year ago asked for more knowledge and better statistics for power-provoking children, and there was a single judicial committee. I hope that now, as the Labour Party, this proposal is re-submitted in the Children's House proposal, we will receive support for it in the Stortinget. So it's very important to mention the children's houses in the debate, as the interpellant and the Council of State do. There is also now a proposal from the Labour Party to make the use of children's homes compulsory for all children under 18 years of age, to strengthen their capacity and, above all, to improve their ability to increase their social pediatric skills. We know this is important, and we also hope to have broad support for this in the Stortinget. I'm going to Bergen tomorrow and visit the children's house there. I have visited several children's houses in the country until now. They do an incredibly important job and have a competence and an offer that all children under the age of 18 in this country must have access to. Finally, I would like to talk a little bit about local action plans. I am very busy getting all the municipalities in this country to establish good local action plans. I believe that by making local politicians aware of the responsibilities of local authorities, we will be able to prevent them much better. When it comes to what Becquently deals with cross-sectoral efforts, it is also very important locally. I would like to refer to Bekkevold's own municipality, Skien, which has established good local action plans against violence in close relations. It makes the sectors cooperate on the action page. It evaluates and compiles the status of prevention for all young people in the municipality of Skien. And we know this is important, because I've met some spokespersons -- I shouldn't say who -- who don't think there's a big problem with power in close relationships in their municipality. It's at best maybe a little naïve approximation. I think I know better today, and I want to mention it in the debate today, that this is something I hope the government will continue to talk about. The former government, and the current government, have developed very good national guides for the municipalities, which should be used. It is in the municipalities that people live and young people are, and through cooperation between kindergarten, school, health care, police, etc. can do a lot more in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1752	We're discussing a dark side of society today, a theme I'd like not to talk about, not to think about, not to know anything about. It intersects in the heart when I open a newspaper and sees a new case of a child who has been abused and killed, a child no one saw, and no one knew that had it cruelly. One of the worst, but also one of the best, exhibitions I've seen is 'If clothes could tell'. One of the posters shows a picture of a little boy with the text: he's good at hiding his feelings, he knows they provoke. He's good at making the body relax, it helps when Dad gets on him. He is good at protecting his head when he is thrown into the floor. I could have added: all of this, all of these abilities, he also takes with him into the world, where others see him – health sisters, kindergarten workers, neighbors. But who thinks that can be true? Who sees because they believe it, and says from behind, so he can get help? In the newspaper a few days ago we could read about a tough lady who worked in kindergarten, and she told her story. She had reported to child protection about several cases and demanded that more people do the same. Siri Helen Søderberg, former teacher, told about his "Christmas cause" to the VG for a while ago: a little boy for whom it fortunately ended well. The reason for that? Well, a young teacher dared to ask the question to the boy who always stood alone in the schoolyard, and who followed up when the answer turned out to be much worse than expected: why are you standing here? Because I'm afraid my dad's gonna kill my big brother. Kindergartens and schools are among those institutions that have a legal obligation to report, but as it was written in an article: Institutions do not report. That's what people do. So as a fellow human being, we have to take the burden of saying that if we're worried. I think it is very good that the interpellant raises this difficult question. It is important that all forces work together to see, help and prevent children from being subjected to violence and abuse. Therefore, it is gratifying that we have recently seen party leaders and state councils raise this issue. All the party leaders from the cooperation parties had a big meeting on violence in close relations for a while back. The Council of State has today told us about all the work done by the government, and the Minister of Health and Justice have commented – and clarified – on the importance of good evidence assurance and rapid court hearings of children. This topic is one of the most important things we can work with as politicians. We have to dry to see, dry to believe, and then we have to work together to prevent children from experiencing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1769	First, I want to thank the interpellant Bekevold for raising a very important theme. I also want to give tribute to the Minister for much of what she has said now, and not least for the way she has said it. She certainly has a real commitment. There is little doubt that there is a need for a specific effort to fight violence and sexual abuse against children. There have been several action plans against violence in recent times, but in this work it has at present been the most focused on adults, while in general the children have been forgotten. Fortunately, we have been better at seeing the children, and today we know more about the damage that children take from living with power and abuse and the one they are witnessing. That knowledge forces us to intensify our efforts in many areas to fight this serious crime. Most abuses and violence against children occur in the home, by someone whom the child knows and trusts. You can ask yourself how safe a child should be when there is no case in his or her own home. The long-term effects of living in such a trauma state are dramatic for the individual child. In addition, it is also economically very costly not to fight against violence and abuse at as early a stage as possible. The extent is large, probably much larger than what we can take over. Single students suggest that a minimum of 5 pst. - maybe as much as 10 pst. – by children, there are many others when you count those who witness the same thing. These figures are uncertain because of the number of people in darkness and lack of openness, and they rise strongly if we also take into account the statistics of children and young people who experience injuries of a less serious nature. We have a great job to do, and this is a fight that we have to fight in many fields. There is no quick fix. A good and timely action plan may well be an important central measure. There is a great need for increased knowledge of power and abuse in several sectors. There is a need for trauma-conscious care for children at all levels — in kindergarten, school, health centres, children’s homes, children’s services and other public services. Health centres may be in a special position when it comes to early prevention. With their high trust, and precisely with the lowthreshold offer, they can and should provide more voluntary services – on family guidance, counselling, support groups, etc. They may also refer to other parts of the auxiliaries. For a long time, the left has indicated the need for a national escalation plan for health centres. We also want strong family protection, because quick help to families like wear is important and can have a good preventive effect. Kindergartens are also an important venue for young children who experience choice and abuse. When we help them grow up, we help the kids. Many parents have problems relating to drugs and mental disorders, which in turn may affect young people. We therefore need several treatment sites for mental health protection and drug use. We need more openness, better information, more community psychologists, etc. The list can be very long. There is no doubt that there is a need for a strong commitment to the fight against violence and child abuse. A separate action plan, which focuses primarily on the choice and abuse of children and young people, can be an important contribution to the work with which we all have a responsibility to close down.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1795	Violence against children is gross crime. I need to say that, because for very many years it was not considered to be. It's kind of been allowed to beat both bitches and kids. We also know that women practice violence against children. We also know how harmful violence is. Of course, everyone understands that violence against children is harmful, but we also know that children who experience being a witness to violence suffer great harm from it – the damage they carry with them their whole lives. That's why the previous government made such a serious effort: we presented several action plans, we strengthened child protection, and we also presented the strategy Childhood does not come in reprisals, as the Council of State pointed out, and I'm very happy that they say they should follow up. Then it's important that we don't cut into the measures that are supposed to teach employees to look at children, with the right glasses on, understand what you see, or to take on what you see and see what you're going to do when you meet children. I have worked my soul in kindergarten without having that competence, so I know a little about what it is like to stand as a little helpless spectator and perhaps not get help from child protection when you ask for it. Recent surveys show the extent of this, and therefore this is one of the most serious societal problems we have in Norway today. We haven't actually gotten rid of this. Violence and assault must be spoken in their heels – not in their heels. One must break the shame, and some of those who can have children are health sisters. That's why I'm glad you're saying that you want to secure it in the future, because we added 180 million. NOK in our last budgets, but what we saw was that it wasn't that easy to see traces of this money in the municipalities. That's why money has to be earmarked if we think they're going to the kids. We have to do that, because maybe that's where some of these kids can go to tell you that they have problems. I would also like to remind you of the Kindest Disturbation! campaign that Redd Barna has. It must be strengthened and supported. It is very important for the cooperation that must be in this area. I would also like to stress that the obligation to notify is beyond the obligation of professional secrecy. We all have to say that. I heard a Secretary of State breaking up with it, in a radio debate not long ago. It must not occur. But it must also be that when you report, the police have to deal with it. The evening post showed yesterday how the police in my home state do not deal with issues related to family violence, as it is called, where children are also involved. Despite the fact that the Storting has unanimously said that this should be a priority for the police, it does not happen, and things remain in place for one and two years. What in the world are these children, who are either subjected to violence, or who live in an environment where there is violence, then? We know that this hurts them. Here, too, the Minister of Justice has a very great responsibility to see what to do when this is not actually prioritised – despite the unanimity on this for many years. The Council of State says that priority needs to be given, and that priority needs to be given to following up. Yes, then, priority must be given to the vital thing: protecting against violence and a childhood that can harm you for the rest of your life. The council says she's impatient, and then she tells me there were four councillors gathered when you received a report, etc. Yes, but I expect that the entire government and all the state councils were gathered when they discussed and put forward, for example. revised national budget. In the revised national budget, we find that they had the opportunity to make a 100-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr for more But where the little ones saved the kids, I don't know. It is at such crossroads that priority is given – not when you receive a report, or when you hold a press conference and say that this is important, etc. It's also important, but it's the money that's available, and there's a need for more money here. It is this area that must be given priority, because it is vital.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1823	There is no doubt that there is an important topic that is being debated here today, and I thank the inter-pellant, Mr Becquerad, for raising a difficult but important issue. There are too many children who experience a very demanding everyday life. It is important that we take seriously. Discussing the issue in the Storting may not mean that much at the moment, but at least it can help focus on an important topic and make more people aware of something we see. I think one of the most important things we have to be able to make good arrangements to prevent children from being subjected to violence is that there is a sufficient range of services in the municipal sector. Good health centres, good recreational clubs, environmental workers in schools and kindergartens allow you to see the young people who need help. It is important that there are services that families with children use, so that it is possible to detect violence against children. In this regard, it might be interesting to hear the council reflect a little around which arenas are the important ones to discover that small kids are being abused. I think kindergartens are the answer. There are a lot of people who are calling for the follow-up to the alarm messages we see. What happens to the alarm message when it is sent to someone? A programme was launched to examine how to follow up the concerns messages, and therefore I think it is very wrong that the funds for that programme have been considerably reduced, because it was an important tool, which could help us to ensure that the incoming concerns are actually taken seriously and followed up. I wish we didn't have to believe in the extent of violence against children. This is why it is important for us to carry out that scope study, so that we get to know something more about what this is all about, and to make it easier to quantify the relief measures. I am pleased that the Council of State confirms that the programme that was about talking to children to expose violence, which was launched in the previous period, is continuing. In this context, there is reason to ask: Once the programme has been continued, but the money support has been cut – what measures within the Council of State portfolio have been removed in order to make room for it? We also had a good debate on the previous issue, which affected the same issue. The Council of State had an interesting list of measures that have now been taken in the field of child protection during her time in the offices. I just have to remind the council that she forgot a very important thing, which unfortunately counts the other way. It is cut down as the government did in actions in the case of single minor asylum seekers; the fact that the municipalities now receive reimbursement of only 80 pst. and not 100 pst. of the costs. This means that it is becoming more difficult for municipal child protection to initiate measures in other areas. We find that very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1842	I would also like to thank the interpellant for an important debate on an important topic. When the interpellant refers to the violence measurement carried out in 2012, where it appears that more than 900 children and young people were exposed to violence, it says something about the extent to which we can hardly believe it. Plans can be good and good, but as the Council of State also has it is simply action and results that are the most important. I am not saying that you should not have any plans, because plans are good, but we must not make so many plans that we cannot implement them. I am pleased that the Council of State refers to the Stoltenberg government's strategy to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people for 2014-2017, which contains a lot of good that should be followed up, as the Council of State also underlines in its contribution. Violence and abuse against children are something that touches all of us. It's important that we keep focus on fighting it. We all remember the Christoffer case – at least I – from my neighboring municipality. Then one heard and read a story about how it can be done because one did not cooperate cross-sectorally and not announced. When, in the last period, we had an exhibition in the tunnel here on the house, I think it did something to many of us. Then you got a picture of how serious it is. They saw small, innocent people who could have been saved if they had cooperated enough across sectors, including in the municipalities. I also want to promise that when the government raises it and wants to work with this cross-ministerial, it says something about raising the focus and seeing the importance of it. It's our job to make sure that the municipalities also have the tool, that they also have to work cross-sectorally. When the representative from the Workers' Party stood on the pulpit, she referred to her home municipality, the Skien in Telemark, where you work like this, and that is done in a number of municipalities, but you have to refer to ‘best practice’. Other municipalities should also see and learn that working together pays off. It pays to work across the board for the best for children and young people. Of course, this applies to the sectors that meet with children and young people, because they just warn, work together and don't have tight shots. Because there is no doubt that for too many years there have been tight shoots between different sectors. You've kind of worked with yours and thought that it's not your own area. I mention the Christoffer thing just because you didn't do it there. Everyone knew something, but nobody said anything. It must not happen again. It is clear that in sectors where there are people, this can be done wrong. We all understand that, but we have to avoid a new Christoffer cause for a long time. Again, thank you to the inter-pellant Becca violence for raising an important debate and topic. I'm absolutely sure we're going to discuss this more in this room in the future. I look forward to cooperating, and I think all parties have an intention to prevent as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1856	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for a very important interpellant and for an important and good debate in the United Kingdom. As a representative of the Judicial Committee, I am pleased that this debate is so central to the family committee too, because too many children are sadly affected. The Christoffer case is mentioned. The Alvdal thing is another. We are today reading a shocking comment on a case in Eidsivating law where two parents are accused of such gross abuse that it hurts. Unfortunately, there are people who are able to do such bad things for children and for their own children. In this case, which is mentioned today, neither school nor child protection was able to intervene at an early stage, and it is unsustainable. It is very important that employees have competence to identify such issues, and we need – as it is said – to gain more knowledge and competence so that you can detect such cases. It is better to say from once too much – and it concerns us all – than once too little. This is why — as many people here have used speaking time — prevention is crucial, and it is absolutely more that we can do. We, who are on the Justice Committee, look at the cases after they have come forward and been revealed, and there is also more we can do. I am pleased with the signals that have come from the government and, most recently today, from the Justice Committee, which others have also talked about, about children's homes and the enormous competence they have, relating to how to reveal how to ensure evidence, how to get the best possible hearing to get a ruling, and that is linked to each other. If you can get more convicted of assault and violence, there are, first of all, more people who are being taken, and in that sense it will be frightening, and you will also make sure that the kids get out of the families. Others have referred to the article in the Evening Post today and in so far as the article that stood yesterday. Yesterday there was one thing about the fact that the number of cases that have been long, or longer than 12 months without a decision, has increased sharply. There is a lot of reason for focusing too much on preparedness. I will not say that preparedness is not important, but it must not be at the expense of the weakest, namely the young. As was pointed out yesterday, it appears in a report following an inspection in Hedmark that a police district on 1 December 2013 had 449 non-prosecution cases that were over 12 months old. About 50 of the cases relate to priority areas such as family violence and morality. So it's the kids who lose in the legal system. We know that violence in close relationships costs society $4.5 billion. kr – 6 br. kr annually. There are three to four times more than the increase in the volume of traffic recorded in the additionalproposal for the current year. It's huge sums, and it should, as many as have been involved, be given even higher priority. I am pleased that the Justice Committee has today unanimously signaled that it wants to do so. The signals from the Minister for Children and Gender Equality are also a high priority. So to another point. In the autumn of 2013, it was found that a family violence case was committed in seven out of ten cases due to the position of the witness. It's alarmingly high numbers. The legal certainty of exposed victims is low. Every police district is today to have a family violence coordinator, but we have seen previous reports — from 2012 — showing that they are being used to a small extent in that work. It also shows that the priorities of the police districts are crucial for success. We can adopt something here, but it has to be followed out. We also see that from police districts to police districts there is a wide variation in the numbers from children’s homes. Children's homes do an enormously important job, but they depend on things coming from the police as soon as possible, on the way in, on the questioning, and on medical examinations to reveal evidence as early as possible. Then there will also be better evidence that can ensure more convictions. It's very good that happens, but we're in a very demanding situation where there's still a lot to deal with. It is still a long time before the hearings are taken within the prescribed period. That is why I am pleased with the focus that comes from the inter-pellant and the Council of State, and I hope that both the Family Committee and the Justice Committee can work together to improve legal certainty for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1873	There's so many kids walking around scared. They're scared all the time. They're saving little kids who fear what was supposed to be the safest arena they could be in, home and caregivers there. We have to take that seriously. Then I hear the representative Stordalen say that plans are one thing, but we want action. That is precisely the point of an action plan. That is why I am still insisting that we should have an action plan that focuses on children. Own solutions are required here, where own answers are required. There are so many saved children, and they deserve us to do everything we can for them. Children deserve the best they can. That is why I am pleased that so many took part in this debate – that most were here and expressed much of the same will. I hope, as I said, that this will not just be words, but that it will lead to action. An action plan does not stand in the way of it, rather on the contrary. That is the point of an action plan. I would like to thank the Council of State for the answers she has given and for the focus she has on this area. I know that in the last period – when she was on the Family and Culture Committee – she also focused on this, and that she is taking it into her current work. I'm also very happy that you think cross-sectorally, because we have to do that in a case like this. This is about health, justice, family, school and kindergarten. Therefore, we need to have measures that allow us to look across these sectors. I think we'll have more opportunities to discuss this. At least the Christian People's Party will follow closely what the government delivers, and we are very impatient to get to something that makes us see all these little rescuers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1886	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I'm going to clarify a few things, because I hear that the critics are very concerned that the government is cutting in the funds for the scope study and training to talk to children. We had a few weeks to put our mark on the budget of the Stoltenberg II government. What was important to me was to take direct and concrete action for what we already have a lot of knowledge about. It's important to find out here that I haven't forgotten that both the Progress Party and the Right were very clear that we wanted such a scope study. At the same time, there are some ethical dilemmas. We know that the report we received from NKTVS this winter has done studies on adults. It shows that this was an assault that was done when they were young children. At the same time, there are some dilemmas. If you are going to study and talk to children today, you must have the consent of the councillor. That is why I have asked the directorate to investigate the regulatory restrictions on data collection directly from minors. If we're going to get such an extensive study to ask the kids, we're going to have to look at how we're going to get that information from the kids. I can assure you that this is a work to be continued. We've been thinking that you don't believe it until you see it. Maybe it's that way that you don't think anyone's assaulted. It's so important that you have to believe it before you see it. We have been wondering if action plans should be drawn up. There are many action plans, there are fine strategies and many concrete follow-up points that we agree across the board that we need to implement. I've been to both the Justice Committee and the Family Committee, and now I have a lot of this responsibility. I know where the shoe prints. That's why it's important to get us out of this hall to those who work on this for the day to day. There are health centres, those who work in kindergartens and in schools, babysitting and babysitting who meet the families and maybe don't think what they see. Therefore, it is important to provide these competences, so that they can be notified, for everyone has an obligation to notify when they see children who are exposed to violence and abuse. Then we need help to help these children. This is why we have strengthened the school's role in the prevention of violence, as skills targets for primary and secondary education. The parental guidance is a new grant scheme in the municipalities of 2014. There is treatment under the control of family protection, help for children who are exposed to violence and young people who commit violence. We also want to follow up on several measures proposed by the Stoltenberg II Government in that strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1903	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1917	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and five lines of response by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Arild Grande, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur on the matter, the representative of Jorid Holstad Nordmelan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1926	On 26 April 2013, the government of Stoltenberg II promoted the historical book law. It was adopted by the Stortinget and sanctioned on 21 June 2013 but has not entered into force. The starting point for this case is Prop. 33 L for 2013–2014, where the government therefore proposes that this book law be repealed. There were many good reasons why we saw the need for a separate book law to ensure a level playing field and predictability for the book industry and our authors. The main objectives of literature policy have been quality, breadth and availability. Facilitate that a variety of authors can write good literature covering a variety of themes and genres and that literature is well available to readers throughout the country was the overall objective of having a book law. First, the book law safeguarded the authors’ interests — through fixed prices, ensuring that publishers can invest in debutants and writers without perhaps the very great bestselling potential and through arrangements such as literature subscriptions. Furthermore, normal contracts ensured a good deal of work for the debutants in particular. We also safeguarded readers’ interests by ensuring a real choice between a variety of titles and high quality books. Then it's important that you have access across the country. In particular, students were a group that would benefit from the Book Act. We also safeguarded the interests of small and medium-sized players by creating a level playing field. It also included actors who until then were outside the book agreement, representing approximately. 16 pst. of the total turnover of books. It carried out work to ensure a good transition and progress for eBooks. The book industry and Norwegian authors operate in a very demanding market. The Committee has also been involved. A joint committee writes: ‘The Committee believes that it is essential for the provision of Norwegian literature and language in the future that book industry actors are able to make a good transition to a situation where digital production and distribution will be more dominant than is the case today. This requires a dynamic in the industry of adaptability, economic sustainability and innovation.’» This is precisely what demands predictability and a level playing field. On the one hand, the majority believe that there is more competition to enable the industry and its authors to take new steps. However, the result of more competition and unforeseeableness in Norway and the Norwegian industry may be that Norwegian authors and Norwegian bookshops are becoming tougher in the face of the international, increasingly tougher competition. Then we have registered that the Book Dealers Association and the Publishing Association agreed on the content of a new book agreement on 20 March this year. It is good that the industry thus merges and ensures the possibility of a certain predictability. However, we still believe that a book law would be better suited to ensure predictability and a level playing field – and not least that it covers all actors. We're not alone in saying that. A number of European countries have gone in the same direction. Just in order to ensure important considerations such as language, literature, and to have a book industry that can strengthen itself in the face of international actors, a book law has been adopted. In the debate, we will come back to challenges to the Council of State in terms of what she will do if the book agreement meets obstacles to ESA review.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1953	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1956	Freedom is a very central concept of cultural policy to the Right. Those who today – as the representative of Grande was also involved – are outside the existing book agreement, have chosen to do so on a voluntary basis. It is close to 20 p.m., and there are all kinds of publishers – small publishers, large publishers, individual enterprises – but they have opted for different reasons to be outside the current agreement. How does Grande think they'll get better by being forced into a book law?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1961	Yes, although there may be many small and individual actors, there is a large part of the book industry, which I was in my post. About 16 pst. the total turnover has occurred in part of the industry which has been outside the contract. Then we have also registered that some of these actors would now actually want the government to want to go for book law. They saw weaknesses in the book agreement, but they would have liked to have been covered by what might be called equal conditions of competition, as we stated in the book law. Both those who are within the book agreement today, and those who are outside, I think that if you had a law, you would have been far more predictable than what we see getting with an agreement. The challenge is: what happens if there are more, more and more, actors who choose to withdraw from the agreement? Then this whole system will be watered out, and it could represent a major challenge for the industry as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1970	I understand from the representative that a new law – and not least laws – is gratifying for the most part here. The book law is so important that it is introduced for the Norwegian literature, because then you can publish narrow literature. Then I have some questions for the representative: what is the definition of narrow literature? What is it that he wants to ensure in this regard – whether he can just say something about it? And what about this book law that makes it so amazing, and what other industries does he think he should have a fixed price scheme like the book industry, when it's so liberating? There were two concrete questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1975	Well, now the replicator himself is an avid poet, I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1980	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1985	I'm not going to venture into whether it comes below the limit of narrow literature, but at least not everyone has the privilege of getting their poems printed in the big papers. Neither are all debutants and all the little writers who have the privilege of being dared to bet on them. But the good arrangements we have proposed in the Book Act, which are, in themselves, also guaranteed in a book agreement, are part of and contribute to more publishers who dare to invest in what may not turn out to be the big kiosks or the best sellers, but which can be defined as narrow literature. In the landscape that the book industry operates today, with ever tougher international competition, I think there would have been much better framework conditions, a level playing field and not least predictability for both authors and industry if you had a law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1990	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e1994	Now, when we are going to repeal the 2013 Book Act before it came into force, it is an important and proper step in the continuation of a freer and more consumer-friendly book market. There is a broad consensus that we want to pursue a literature policy to facilitate the breadth, diversity and quality of Norwegian literature. The two main actors are the author and the reader. There are several challenges for the industry, and there may be two particular challenges that stand out. One is that we are a small market through the small language area we form, and the other is that the industry is in the middle of a technological development that we hardly know the scope of. This industry is a very clear example of consumer policy where two different considerations need to be taken into account at the same time — on the one hand, taking into account price and availability and, on the other hand, literature policy priorities in a small language area. Finding this balance sheet is a continuous work better done through sectoral agreements than through regulatory regulation. The weighting is between the two extremes of book law on the one hand and free price and free competition on the other. So far, this weighting has taken place through a voluntary industry agreement. This is the one that now, after a renegotiation, continues with some adjustments, and it is because the book law is being repealed. We had in some areas hoped that the parties would meet consumers more. This is the size of the rebates, and it would also have been desirable with a more independent industry council. This is an industry that is now exempted from the Competition Act and where there is quite a large vertical integration at the same time. It requires an industry council that follows closely and that can help to eliminate the possible typhoon and oatmeal feeling sometimes. Furthermore, there is reason to mention the subscription schemes. Through them, a number of bookstores undertake to take at least one copy of fictional books registered with the Council of Culture’s purchasing system. However, in recent years the number of bookshops with subscriptions has decreased. It is hoped that the parties to the book agreement will ensure that the number of bookstores with subscriptions increases, and that the books will also be made visible in bookstores. A better subscription system will help to give readers a wider range and greater freedom of choice when looking for their bookshop. In this way the bookstores can be involved and show that they take their cultural obligations seriously. There is one way in which the industry can contribute to the maintenance and development of a wide range of literature offerings to Norwegian readers. Now, when we repeal the book law, and the voluntary agreement system continues through the new industry agreement, it is worth noting that the new contract period is two years, as opposed to the previous four-year contract period. It is hoped that the industry will note that shorter contractual periods open up to more frequent negotiations and that the industry will see the need to keep the consumer in focus at all times. The vertical integration of the industry makes it an extra big responsibility for publishers and bookstores to ensure that everything is transparent and clear at all times. The voluntary agreement now concluded opens up more competition than a book law would have done, but there is still reason to be concerned about the high price level of books in Norway. An industry agreement of the current nature requires exemptions from the Competition Act, and it is also important that it is clear to everyone that it is precisely what it is — an exception. Exemptions shall not be granted easily and exemptions must be managed wisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2007	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2010	In particular, it is a right-wing representative who often talks about a lot of competition, saying that he prefers an industry agreement rather than a law that ensures real competition between the players, and that includes everyone – that the industry itself should join together and make an agreement. It's kind of weird, but I'm recording it. Eidem Løvaas himself confirms in his article that there will be shorter contractual periods. It thus becomes more unpredictable for the industry. The industry notes that this requires ongoing negotiations on the conditions. Does the representative not see that the industry and Norwegian authors facing a tough international competition could be exposed to a weakening of competition conditions with these framework conditions, in relation to the international market, in relation to what a law would contribute to?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2017	I think the representative Grande and I are looking at competition a little differently. I have noticed – several times – that he indicates that a book law would give equal competition. That's where we essentially disagree. A book law is the same for all — there is no dynamism in terms of the ability to compete — while an industry agreement is an agreement negotiated between the parties. There is an agreement that can be entered into for renegotiations, and there is an agreement between the industry – which part of the industry does – can choose to stand outside. So you operate in a freer market, and you experience a more real competition than you would do with a book law. I think – if I'm going to be allowed to speculate a little – that the representative Grande thinks we're making a unit of the Norwegian market that's going to stand up to foreign competition. On that altar, we sacrifice domestic competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2024	I ask the representative to note that such an agreement is in principle contrary to the conditions of competition and that an exception is necessary in order to continue such an agreement. It's going to be interesting to see what the ESA process will lead to – if such an agreement keeps water. I totally disagree with Eidem Løvaas that there are more equal conditions when parts of the industry come together and make an agreement, while other parts of the industry are outside. These are not equal conditions of competition. This is achieved when the conditions apply to everyone and everyone has the same starting point in terms of what to compete for – not least the Norwegian industry and the Norwegian authors’ ability to compete on the international market. My question is then: What does the representative think must happen if the agreement falls into contact with ESA? Is it free price that is the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2033	We'll get back to it when ESA comes up with its answer, but it's implicit that you're allowed to continue as you've done before. I want to come back to the concept of competition. If you have a free price, you have free competition. If you have an agreement, the parties have come to it. It's a middle ground. Then you have the other extreme, which is a book law. The reason why a law does not need a derogation from the competition regulation is that then there is no longer competition, then the whole concept of competition falls away. Of course, if you wanted a free-price system, you wouldn't have to have any exceptions to the Competition Act, because then you're within the scope of the Competition Act. Here we emphasise consumers’ interest in price and accessibility for consumers’ interest in a wide and diverse range of literature. We've found out that the best way to do this is to do both: competition and literature policy. It's an industry agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2040	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2043	What's important to us in the Storting? What is it important for the Storting to give signals about? Yes, we want more readers. We also want more people who read in Norwegian. We want more people in the book industry to renew themselves and join the new platforms – that they are developing in line with society. There are major changes in technological developments. There have been profound consequences for the housing composition worldwide — including in Norway. It's been fast. What is the solution? Is the solution a book deal? Is the solution a book law, which many think is rewarding? Is the solution to further develop the book industry a free price, especially when we know that e-books have to be expected to take a higher market share both in Norway and abroad, and not least do we see competition from the English-speaking e-books? This is nothing new. This has been predicted. This development we see going faster and faster for every day. Therefore, it is important that the industry is ‘on’ and develops good reading board solutions, as we see that EBOK.NO is ready. Simple systems for the purchase of books on networks will also lead to faster changes in user habits — and thus changes in the form of distribution, competitive conditions and conceptual developments in these products. It is important for the future of Norwegian literature and language that book industries and actors are able to make good transitions to a situation where digital production and distribution will be more dominant than today – we cannot track it in particular. From my own point of view, the industry is very slow or, as we call it in Stortinget, conservative in terms of that development. This requires a dynamic industry characterised by change, economic sustainability and innovation. Then it is not certain that there is a law, a stable framework, security and “that has been” we need – no, then we need a dynamic that allows this to develop. The provision of literature in Norway is of high literary quality. There's no doubt about it. There's no country in the world where you read more books than what we do here in Norway. That means we have a good literature policy. We have good writers. We have a book business that has worked well until today. The Norwegian language community is small, with good quality, breadth and diversity. It can be maintained if the market is in place. The competition with the English books is strong. We want to facilitate the breadth, diversity and quality of Norwegian literature and accessibility for all throughout Norway. The argument for introducing a book law is that we should ensure narrow literature. I ask a lot of people, what is narrow literature? Is it the books that are sold little, or are they the authors that don't sell so well? This is a discussion. For me, it is important that more people read, that we spread literature across the country – not whether it is narrow or wide, but that people are interested in reading it. Once you have granted a derogation from the Competition Act, you have gone a long way – you ask me. This should be reviewed in two years' time. This will take account of developments in the book industry. One will take into account the developments we see around us, and not least the developments in the literary market in the Norwegian language. The little publishers are exciting. They evolve, and they sell a lot of books. They must also have the opportunity to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2062	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2065	It may seem that the representative Thomsen has perceived it so that the book law is only about caring for narrow literature. But one important reason for having a book law is that we should also take care of the Norwegian language. What measures does the representative Thomsen see for himself to take in the Norwegian language, now that we are not going to have a book law?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2070	I do not think that the book law is the saluting thing that we should have a good Norwegian language in the literature. I think the most important thing for the literature is that you have good authors, who sell books, who write well in Norwegian, and who get the opportunity to develop within those areas. I also think that we need a new discussion about literature. It's about VAT on paperbooks and e-books. We see the competition from abroad, from English books – as I was inside my post. That's where the big competition is. It is not possible to prevent a book law when you have different price levels, when you have an industry that is not involved in developing the electronic market, and when the youth now only automatically downloads English books on their Pads. I think that's the biggest competition for Norwegian literature.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2078	It was a little difficult to get hold of the thread that Thomsen now answered. He says that the most important thing to preserve the Norwegian language is to have good authors. What tools does Thomsen see for good Norwegian authors?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2083	Yeah, I guess I was into it. I'm sorry if the representative lost the thread, but I thought it was important that they also sell a lot of good books, i.e. sell books, that they make money. That's when the authors are developed. When you do not participate in and develop the electronic market, and it is clear that they will have the opportunity to sell their books in Norwegian as well, instead of the fact that the youth is now downloading in English, there will be a limited sale of Norwegian books. If the representative lost the thread one more time, I can repeat it: it is important to be involved in the development, that one can also participate in the electronic market, that several Norwegian books be sold, both on paper and electronically, i.e. e-books. In this way, I think you can join in and strengthen the Norwegian language.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2090	I got with me as a thread, one might say, in the post that the representative was not blessed by a book law. But in what way is a more blissful deal, an industry agreement, with fixed prices and agreed discounts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2095	My salutation is limited enough when you see that there is now a new agreement in the industry. The industry has been satisfied with it before. They got a book law, and now it is back to an agreement. For my part, I think that the free price and market forces could have steered this in a good way. A little further on what I said to Rigmor Aasrud that this has now become an international market: we have to try to get focus on the Norwegian market, and we do so by giving Norwegian authors the opportunity to sell many more books on several platforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2102	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2105	The placing on the market of books is a market, but the regulation of this market is more than an industrial policy. It's literature policy, it's cultural policy, it's Norwegian language management, and it's Norwegian identity management. Authors should have good working conditions, and the Christian People's Party wants readers to have a wide range of high-quality offers. I believe that the book law was not suitable enough to do this. Nor was it suitable enough to stimulate the development of the industry or to provide innovation and healthy competition. But at the same time – and that is important – is not the free price to go. There is also no majority for here on the Stortinget. The fixed price policy is a key element of Norwegian literature policy. The question then is how we most appropriately safeguard the fixed price policy and regulate it in the future. The book industry and the entire literature field are in a comprehensive transformation, and an industry agreement will, to a greater extent than Bookleaf – book law – ensure a dynamic that makes the transition take place in line with the challenges of time. That is why it is right to draw the book law, in the view of the Christian People's Party, and it is good that an agreement is in place. The agreement shall be renegotiated every two years. It is the parties in the industry who negotiate an agreement. At the same time, the parties know that there are some expectations from the authorities about what such an agreement should contain in order to exempt it from the competition law. Of course, it is the parties themselves who are primarily going to define an agreement, but I expect that there will be good dialogue between the industry and the government on this. It is perfectly legitimate – yes, I expect it to – that the government has an active literature policy and contributes to making some well-founded demands on the industry. For example, we have to. could expect industry to develop good Norwegian concepts for the digital circulation of books and to make them available in a consumer-friendly manner. The development of the e-book market is one of the things that it would be natural to consider when assessing a new agreement in two years' time. The Christian People's Party position is and has been that neither free price nor fixed price through book law is a good solution. We want a fixed-price regime through an industry agreement, and that's why we're happy that this is in place right now. A book law, as the red-greens added, is, according to the Christian People's Party's view of static. The market and conditions are changing rapidly, and it is important that developments are not frozen by a law, as the previous government suggested. Over time, the literature industry has received support and special arrangements to help make it viable. In many areas, these schemes have been successful. Many good books are published in Norwegian. As well as all the Norwegians read books regularly, and it has over time developed a large and comprehensive network of dealers. Strong industry actors such as author associations, the Publishing Association and the Book Dealers Association have helped to increase the readership. With an active and offensive literature policy in the future, I am sure that we can strengthen Norwegian literature and Norwegian authorship – even without a book law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2127	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2130	As a member of the Culture Committee, sports expressions can quickly be made available and book laws can quickly become Book Leaves. But I go to my question, which is more focused on that if the book agreement now falls into ESA, and the free price is not applicable to the Christian People's Party, what is the last option?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2135	Of course, we're also closely monitoring what's going on with such an industry agreement in ESA. That's a little hypothetical for now, but it's clear that we have a new situation. We don't want a free price, we want a fixed price, and that has been our whole starting point. We believe, however, that it is not guaranteed solely by a book law, and it is simply about that it is a very static way to solve it. The industry agreement, as we have had for several years now, and which is now renegotiated, has just been such a dynamic agreement where the industry cannot evolve through a law, but through an agreement. That's the dynamics the Christian People's Party wants to be there still, without talking about giving up the fixed price. But if it turns out that this doesn't go through in ESA, well, then we have a new situation. The Christian People's Party will decide on that then.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2140	Not many weeks ago, the Committee visited ESA, in which case the person who was there on behalf of ESA expressed that the book agreement would be one of the matters they would follow on their own initiative with great interest. So my question to the Christian People's Party is, have you figured out an alternative B if the book agreement falls with ESA?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2146	First of all, I think that once you've made a new industry agreement now, you've also taken into account the demands of ESA. We've had a business deal before. A new industry agreement has now been concluded. I think that the considerations that need to be taken into account in relation to the EEA Regulations are also taken into account here. I just want to answer what I did to the previous question, that if it turns out that this falls into ESA, we have a new situation. For us who are engaged in literature policy, concerned that we should have a wide range, and concerned that the fixed price should last, well, then we have to sit down and look at this again. It is the Christian People's Party willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2153	I noticed that the representative Bekkewold argued for why an agreement is better than a law that a law – he used words such as that the situation would be ‘freeze’ or that it is ‘static’, while an agreement is more ‘dynamic’. Then I was a little curious because the content of the laws that was submitted was at the central points of confusion similar to the frames we had in an agreement, but the laws were perhaps more general. Then I began to wonder: Is there a general position from the Christian People's Party that law can often freeze a situation and something that one should not prefer, or is there something specific, and in the case of what, by the proposal of law that might seem less dynamic, freeze things, than an agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2160	I believe this on a general basis by requiring a law to be repealed and re-examined – one must propose a change in the law. It'll take time. It's a static way to solve this. An industry agreement has a somewhat looser and more dynamic character, where it can also be converted quite quickly to the new developments and new demands that are also being made on this market. That's why we've been skeptical about organizing this through law. But we've seen that the industry agreement has been a good solution, and this industry itself has taken responsibility for it. I'm pretty sure that's the way we can solve this in the future. But I would say, as I said in my two previous lines, that if ESA won't accept this, then we have a new situation. The Christian People's Party shall then sit down and be constructive in that respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2169	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2172	An active literature policy regulating the circulation of books is an important reason for us to note that in Norway we have a better literature policy goal achievement than in many other countries, for example. Sweden and Denmark. This includes, inter alia: evidenced by the external investigation into literature and language policy instruments in Norway, carried out by Oslo Economics in 2011. The investigation shows that more titles are published in this country and more books are sold per capita than in our neighbouring country. The continued regulation of the circulation of books, together with other important literature and language policy instruments, is important to contribute to the achievement of cultural policy objectives in the future. But such a regulation should cover everyone, we believe in the Center Party. In an interaction with VAT exemptions for paperbooks, purchasing systems for literature and scholarship and remuneration schemes, special fixed prices for new books are important in order to maintain the book’s position in Norway in the future. Unlike the continuation of the book contract scheme, a book law would contain essentially mandatory provisions which would include all Norwegian publishers and dealers of books in the Norwegian book market – turnover of both fictional literature, case law, professional literature for the professional market and higher education textbooks regardless of their publication format. At the centre of the Book Act was the statutory obligation for providers of books to set binding resale prices – fixed prices – for new books. The basic wall of the Book Act is a fixed price arrangement. The fixed price scheme ensures that Norwegian books cost the same everywhere. This ensures an important predictability at all levels of turnover. The fixed price is a prerequisite for ensuring the cultural policy obligations of publishers and accountants and equal access to the breadth and quality of all parts of the country. It's about giving people a literary breadth – the opportunity for Norwegian authors and a good diversity. As others have mentioned, many countries in Europe have gone their way from book agreements to book laws to ensure exactly the same. Of course, when we go to countries so high on the statistics on book publishing and reading, it's because of the quality that we as readers are offered, but to the maximum extent also the availability of width and quality through the retail stage. In Norway, we have many district bookstores. All 88 pst. of the population living in a municipality with at least one bookshop. In large parts of the country, bookshops are included as an important cultural arena. The bookstore likes to play a role in selling books. They arrange author visits, establish reading circles, and some even travel to teams and associations to present new books. The reader survey conducted by Ipsos MMI in February 2012 shows that 74 pst. of the population bought a book from the bookstore. In a month, 73 is pst. of the population of a bookstore. Norwegian bookstore mediates and sells a huge amount of space despite access to e-books. But if many people like the bookstore, there are many bookstores who already see themselves having to deal with other trades alongside selling books. There is a danger that bookstores will disappear if book sales are reduced to a little bit of a bee. The centre party is concerned that the bookstores should make the most of the money in being a specialist, and believes that a bookstore would be an important framework in this way. We also see that access to books is changing with technological developments, but still believes that bookshops have an important role to play around the country. The representative of Aasrud referred to the preservation of the Norwegian language. Fagliterature is, if possible, even more exposed than the fictional literature in this way. As a educational politician, I am aware that the pressure from English literature in Norwegian education is great. If we forget fixed-price schemes that ensure the production of scientific literature in Norwegian, basic values and principles for learning and quality are put into play in education. The market for higher education textbooks is characterised by the fact that it covers many subjects. In addition, we also have a diversity of many narrow subjects with few students. The fixed price of the trade books would ensure that each trade can have a good offer of specific technical literature in Norwegian. It is therefore sad that the government has chosen to refuse a book law that would cover everyone in the industry, for the benefit of a continued book agreement, which does not include everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2204	The SV will vote against cancelling the book promise here today. We believe that introducing a book law was an important step forward for Norwegian cultural policy, and something that could provide the necessary framework for literature policy in the years to come. Many of the major European cultural nations, Germany and France among them, have book laws as a framework for their literature policy. Norway had started to have the same thing in the demanding years we're going into this area. When an area is very important, it is very often so that we also do well to have a law as a framework for policies around it. Literature policy is fundamental to any country. It tells a lot about who we are, and is among the things that are supposed to ensure that we take care of the people's ability to read and access literature, but also to build up our memory, our common cultural heritage. Book law and having a good literature policy are also important to ensure a wide range of literature in Norway. There was a debate about narrow and wide literature here before. I think it's a good move, but at least I think it's important to be a few that even the authors who sell the most today were born as 'wide authors'. Herbjørg Wassmo, Per Petterson and Lars Saabye Christensen were not born as superselling writers – they were. They started out as most authors, who sold so-called narrow literature, who didn't sell so well. Having a literature policy that ensures that one can publish many titles – even by authors who don't know if superstars will be, is a good investment in making some are superstars and reaching out to many. We can ensure that policy by means of a book law. So I would say that I am very happy that we have now reached an agreement that I think is very good. We have continued a system that we have lived well with in Norway for many years – I did not think we should sub-communicate it. I have read that the Council of State is well pleased with the agreement that has been concluded, and I suggest that it be passed on in the current form. And then we'll see what's going on with the ESA bag. I still have to link some comments to the different parties' devices, because I asked the representative Thomsen about what he meant was blissful. Then I thought he as a representative of the Progress Party should have replied that he was not so very happy with the agreement, for his view is of course, as the Progress Party's view, that we should have a free price – a free market. I thought that the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left should reflect, please, on why Right and the Progress Party prefers an agreement over a law. I believe that the representative Bekkewold was involved himself: because it is easier to do something with him faster. It is clear that if a person really wants to have a free price on books, it is better to have an agreement that has the possibility to abolish easier than a law with which there is a heavier process to do – not because the agreement itself is less detailed or more dynamic, no, on the contrary, the law would have been more superior and more a framework law, but because it is faster to change. That's why my most important banishment to the Christian People's Party and the Left – two party claiming to be a cultural party, which is concerned that we should have a literature policy that is not based on the free price, and which stands for many of the same principles that SV and other parties on the left do – is to think carefully about whether it's really wise that you do it here today. In particular, I think it might be necessary if this proved to be a difficult ESA case. Now I see that the parties have left the hall, so they can think about the TV screens in their offices. If we were not to be able to approve the agreement in ESA, it could be a real problem that one has to decide on more quickly than we know. It's a shame today that the book promise we had a short period of time is not standing. It was fun as long as it lasted, but she's going to come back at a later time. It will be quick as long as it lasts after the 2017 elections. In that case, we will have to live with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2228	The book law was fun as long as it lasted, said the representative Solhjell. Now we probably never saw it in practice, and it's being pulled here today. We have a reality with a book law like one extreme, an industry agreement in the middle, and a free price like the other extreme. That's where I think Solhjell and I agree. Now it turns out that with today's system, which we know quite well because we've had an industry agreement for quite a long time, there are a lot of actors who choose to stand outside, so they choose to operate freely in the market. It is up to one in five in today’s market that is outside the industry agreement – small publishers, large publishers and also book dealers. I have asked about this earlier today as well, but have not received any good answer from anyone else, so I hope Solhell can give me the good answer: in what way will the companies that today choose to operate freely in the market because they can, get better by being forced into a bookmaking system?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2235	That it was fun as long as it lasted, was probably an exaggeration, I might agree. So to the question, I think that one of the improvements that we would have had in my view with a law was that she would have been mandatory for all the actors. The most important improvement would have been for anyone who is happy in literature in Norway, for then one would have a system in which literature policy would achieve its objectives and scope of action to all, and ensure that the glare of which there has been very broad agreement would apply to all publishers and thus to all titles. And then I think it's probably wrong to draw an image where you have a book permit here and an appointment in the middle. Appointments and book laws are very similar to each other in content, but there are a little different structures. That is why I tried to say that I am positive that after all, we have an agreement that will be passed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2242	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2245	Reading enriches us. It gives us good experiences, insight and knowledge. Literature is both a life's nerve in a knowledge nation and a vital part of our cultural heritage. That is why literature policy is important. The Government will pursue a literature policy to take care of Norwegian language and literature. Good emergence of new authorship and good access to literature for the reader is the main goal. Fixed book prices provide the publishers and authors with predictable financial frameworks. This allows you to bet on literature in every song, where both reputable authors and debutants come together. This gives us a diversity in literature and a well-functioning book market. Books are culture, but books are also goods to be traded in a commercial market. It is therefore important for the government that the framework conditions respect cultural policy considerations, while balancing the elements of competition policy well. I have noticed that a joint committee supports the government's literature policy objectives, but there are shared opinions on how to achieve them. It is our opinion that a voluntary book agreement between the book industry actors provides better framework conditions than the mandatory provisions of the book law. We believe that strong, free actors on the outside of a book deal and associations will strengthen competition and innovation. The government will carry out a freedom reform in cultural life. It means more private capital, the spread of power and less regulation and fewer leaders of cultural life actors and institutions. This results in greater diversity among cultural actors and greater competition. That's why we want to repeal the book law. Increased competition will lower prices for consumers and more innovative distribution solutions. The government has joined the Book Dealers Association and the Publishing Association's new book agreement. The new agreement is based on the current agreement, i.e. fixed price arrangements. It concerns the literature of discretion, prose and scientific literature in all formats, literature subscription schemes and mutual supply and supply obligations. The agreement also takes into account that we live in a digital time. It is a political objective to increase the rate of development of e-books. The agreement better facilitates the development of the e-book market. A more dynamic pricing means that the e-book no longer has a fixed price if a pocketbook is launched. The agreement also better facilitates innovative distribution solutions such as stream services. In addition, there has been a tightening of which versions of a title may be given a separate fixed-price period. On the basis of this Agreement, a draft derogation regulation will be consulted, so that a new regulation will be in place in good time before the expiry of the existing regulation on 31 December of this year. We live in the midst of a digital revolution, and it is still difficult to predict how the e-book market will develop and influence and challenge established forms of distribution and publication. We believe it is right to follow this carefully and make a new assessment in a relatively short time. As a consequence, the new exemption regulation will apply for two years, i.e. it expires on 31 December 2016. I am sure that the new book agreement will help to maintain and promote Norwegian literature for the benefit of readers, whether they prefer paper or reading boards. I registered that there were a few questions about the EEA and some concerns that this new agreement should not be able to pass through the EEA system. Then I would like to say that I feel that this is a hypothetical problem – the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has commissioned some investigations along with the Bookstores Association and the Publishing Association. There have been three independent investigations that everyone says this is not a problem. I also want to add that I feel the problem as hypothetical today, because as far as I know, no one has complained about this matter to ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2287	I would like to address what the Council of State said at the end of the day, that there is a hypothetical problem, that this cannot have any EEA relevance, and she points out that three investigations have been carried out. Then is my question to the Council of State: are there investigations by the government, or are you based solely on investigations made by others? And can the Council of States now guarantee that this is not an EEA issue? It must be quite important, because when the government stands behind an exception regulation, it will not be the government that gets into trouble if the regulation does not pass the ESA, it will be the ones who have entered into the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2294	It is on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries that these investigations have been carried out, as well as the Book Dealers' Association and the Publishing Association are behind them. So there are three independent investigations that we've got, and everyone says this isn't problematic. Then I want to add that one of course can never guarantee it. I stress that as of today’s date it is not like this – at least I am aware – that there is any case, or that someone has brought this case before ESA today. With that background, I think it's a hypothetical problem. Of course, we will follow this matter carefully, but we have no information today that would indicate that this should be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2301	My question concerns literature policy and e-books, not direct book law – but still. As is well known, the removal of VAT on e-books does not appear in the government statement, but a few days later, the party’s cultural policy spokesperson came out and said it was still desirable. He said to Nr.no: ‘We want to treat VAT on paper, audio and e-books in a non-discriminatory manner. We all prefer to cut VAT completely." I wonder: Is it relevant for the Council of State to consider cutting or removing VAT on e-books?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2313	There is a question that the government has not taken a decision on. We have also not taken a position on the VAT problem of newspapers. We're going to have ample opportunity to get back to that. There we have just said, in our declaration, that we must have a low VAT rate. There is something that I will come back to at a later stage. In the case of books, we haven't taken a decision on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2322	Several, including the Council of State, have pointed out that Norway is part of a very demanding international market. Many countries have chosen to meet this challenge by trying to create a better and more predictable framework for the industry in their country. Several of the major cultural nations in Europe have done so. It was also the ambition of the book law. The fact that the government has agreed to draw up the book law, and that in addition to having only two-year agreements, you will have to contact ESA repeatedly to get this approved. How does the Council of State contribute to more predictability and clear framework conditions for the industry by acting in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2331	Firstly, I am very pleased that we have a common understanding of literature policy objectives. But we do have a different view of how best to take care of them. The government’s position in principle is that a voluntary book agreement between the book industry’s players actually provides a better framework for the book composition than the mandatory provisions of the book law would provide. Then it is also true that we believe that a book agreement provides a better opportunity to change the course, if it turns out that the literature policy objectives are not achieved by means of that device in the book agreement. I think that is also the basis that we have now said that we want that agreement for two years. And then we'll see the evolution, not least how it evolves in terms of, as I also said in my post, that we are in the midst of a digital revolution, and there are many challenges that will meet us in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2338	Yes, that's absolutely right, and it's clear that with only two-year terms, there will be repeated rounds of negotiations with ESA. And then we have some extremes. I heard the Council say that there are only hypothetical issues – if ESA says that an agreement is not approved. But this is going to happen every two years. If that were to happen, then we have one of the extremes represented by Ib Thomsen of the Progress Party; he says that then the alternative is the free price. And then we might have the second extreme, with Geir Jørgen Bekkevold from the Christian People's Party, who says that one of the most important principles here is fixed price. If that should happen once in the future, I think at least it's important for the industry to get a signal on this. Will the Council of State then move towards a free price, or will the Council of State move towards trying to find a framework that ensures a fixed price?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2347	When the government has now chosen to propose that we have a two-year agreement, it is not necessarily because you need to start from scratch to negotiate a new agreement. It is also possible to extend the contract. It could be in the interest of all parties. The reason why we've chosen two years was, as I said, that we're in the middle of a digital revolution, which means that the distribution solutions change – and they can change dramatically. The book as a product may change, and the Norwegian book market must also deal with a global market in a completely new way. That is what is the basis for us choosing to have this agreement for only two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2354	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2370	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that there is no opportunity for a line change. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2379	This matter is reflected in a number of issues we are dealing with here at Stortinget, issues arising from the need to harmonise laws and regulations across borders. These are issues that don't get so much attention, or much debate, but they are of great importance to those involved. A Joint Committee agrees that the term of protection of copyright is a central and important right for artists. Therefore, when it came to securing this right in this case, it was not difficult to reach an agreement in the Committee. The proposition follows up and harmonises the Norwegian rules with the rules of the rest of Europe, but also with other groups of artists. Here we ensure that authors and women of audio recordings and music with text expand their term of protection in line with what has previously been done for other artists. It is right and fair, and ultimately also crucial, in an increasingly international sharing of artistic expressions across national borders and platforms. There is little doubt that copyright is being challenged through the opportunities for sharing that are constantly emerging through new digital media and opportunities. I am therefore pleased that the department is now carrying out an overall review of the copyright law. There is also a difficult balance to be struck between copyright and the protection of artists on the one hand and the possibility of dissemination and use on the other. In addition to the good and robust protection of copyright through the law, it is therefore important that organisations that manage rights through contractual licensing schemes provide for flexibility in regulatory management. It must be easy for consumers who want to pay copyright holders for copyrighted material they find on the Internet. Just as piracy has been decimated because it has become easy to buy music and movies legally through the big players, we need simpler and more user-friendly solutions for several types of protected material that are already available online. Work on updating the copyright law is challenging, but it is both correct and important. That debate will take place when it comes. Today, we are ensuring the protection of rights and the harmonisation of the rules in the Nordic countries and Europe. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2392	I am pleased that a Joint Committee supports the Government's proposals for amendments to the copyright law implementing amendments to the EU protection time directive. The proposal will strengthen the rights of sound recording and musical works with text. This is done by extending the term of protection of sound recording rights and harmonising the calculation of the term of protection of musical works with text. The protection period is the term of the period during which works and works are protected under the copyright law. In the EEA area, the rules on this have been harmonised by the EU Safeguards Directive. The proposal by the government is a consequence of amendments to the terms of protection, which Norway is obliged to implement by means of the EEA Agreement. The legislative proposal consists of the following main elements: First, the term of protection of the rights of performers and producers to sound recordings is changed from 50 to 70 years. The proposal will strengthen the musicians' right to get income from their work. This ensures, inter alia: that musicians can obtain income from their early production throughout their lifetime. Secondly, new rules are introduced to give performers the right to an additional remuneration for the extended term of protection. This remuneration shall be paid to those who have transferred the rights to a sound recording in return for a one-off remuneration. The proposal also allows this group of performers to take part in the revenues generated by the change in the term of protection. Each year during the extended period of protection, the manufacturer shall switch off 20 pst. of its revenue from the individual sound recording. This amount shall be distributed among the performers who have contributed to the sound recording. Thirdly, new rules are introduced allowing performers to terminate the contract with the manufacturer if this leaves sufficient use to be made of the fixation. The ability of the performer to earn money on the sound recording requires the manufacturer to exploit the transferred rights. In those cases where during the extended term of protection the manufacturer does not offer the sound recording on the market, the proposal opens up the possibility for the performer to have his rights restored. This will allow the performer to exploit the sound recording itself. Last but not least, the fourth amendment to the calculation of the term of protection for musical works with text is proposed. These are works that many people have contributed to as a composer and a text writer. Today the term of protection for text and music is calculated separately. After the proposal, the term of protection will be 70 years from the end of the year of death to the longest-lived by the composer and the author. As the rapporteur explained, a comprehensive revision of the copyright law is currently under way. The law shall be reviewed and made more easily available to all users of the law. Both language use and law building shall be reviewed. Legislative changes shall also be considered in the light of developments since the last major revision in 2005. This implies – as the Committee also recalls – that work should take account of the opportunities and challenges offered by new digital solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2411	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2425	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2439	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2454	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2460	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2901	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of the Prime Minister’s Office for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU on important EU and EEA matters held at the Storting meeting on 20 May 2014 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2904	In Case No: 3–5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2930	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote and shall therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2943	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e2957	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e3145	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e3155	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e3162	In the case of cases No. 8–10, are the second legal proceedings. The President proposes that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no comments in any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-27.ana.ud2345e3167	Case No. 11 was recorded. The report was discussed before case No. 1 today. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
