ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e26	Really good new year! Welcome back to a hopefully nice spring session. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For the province of Hordaland: Astrid Aarhus Byrknes For Telemark County: Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen For Troms County: Kristian Støback Wilhelmsen Two permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, from 7 January to 10 January to take part in an information course at the Defence College of the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative, Gunvor Eldegard, from 7 January until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of Akershu County Are Health and for Sogn and Fjordane County Jenny Ellaug Følling are called to meet during the leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e78	Are Health and Jenny Ellaugh Følling are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e94	Since we are dealing with the first case in the new year, I would also like to take the opportunity to wish both the Minister of Finance, the President and colleagues a good new year. I think we're going to get a lot of interesting rounds in this hall this year that's coming. We were in the harvest through a comprehensive budgetary procedure. There were many subsequent debates, both in this room and in the public space, and the inheritance fee was a topic that went on. Whenever I choose to travel this interpellation, it is because it was completely impossible to get a response from the Minister of Finance on whether it was the government's intention to apply tax tightening to a number of individual companies when the inheritance tax is removed and added to the principle of continuity in connection with inheritance and gift. At least the Minister of Finance did not mention it in one single word during his financial speech. On the contrary, she said, ‘Changes in the tax system shall make saving, investing and working more profitable. If we get to this, we will succeed in creating increased growth in the future. This is precisely why, in the proposal for an additional proposal, we have priority reliefs that contribute to growth.’ I am absolutely sure that there are some farmers and owners of individual companies around Norway and wonder what in the world she meant by that. Major parts of the government parties' election campaign were built on a story of concern about increasing two-wayness in the Norwegian economy and the need to strengthen the mainland economy and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises. So it is essentially quite remarkable that the response to the government’s supplementary proposal was an increase in oil money use — which increases oil dependence, does not reduce it — combined with several measures that directly attack important industries outside the oil sector. The fisheries – the whitefish package we have been talking about – relate to the competitive businesses, which face uncertain times, and which have tightened the rules of permitation with them, such as the greetings of the government, and that is the case with a large number of individual enterprises. We were mildly surprised by this from the Labour Party. But it seems that it came quite surprising to part of the representatives of the government parties as well. For example, the representative of Gunnar Gundersen said: to the nations following the submission of the supplementary proposal: ‘What surprises me is that the industry has not pointed out earlier how complicated this is, in the past. That is a lesson from this process.’ So the industry was going to realize that this would come, and tell them that it was going to look a little bit lucky. Then it's tempting and quite close to quoting another right-wing politician. As late as November 7th, fiscal spokesman of the Right, the representative Svein Flätten, spoke to the Bondebladet: ‘It would be entirely wrong if we first removed the inheritance fee and left it with rules that removed the benefit of the inheritance fee. I am absolutely convinced that this will not happen." It may well be that farmers and other self-employed owners of individual enterprises thought just like the representative Fleet, that given the rhetoric of the government parties and the stated objective of tax cuts to those who create values, it would be completely beyond the government's ability to make such a proposal. So it probably didn't occur to them that it could happen, and they didn't initiate any major mobilization against it in advance. Now there has not been much time for the process and debate on the matter. There's probably more than the representative, Gundersen, who's learned something from it. But it is actually the government that is responsible for having an overview of the consequences of its own proposals. After having retreated on a good deal of electoral promises, there is a guarantee of zero tolls with the Advance Party in government, additional hospital billions or reduced equity requirements, it is essentially easy to understand the government's zeal after being able to deliver at least one central election vow. But here it seems that it has gone so fast that you haven't quite got what the proposal is actually going to mean for people -- what it's going to mean for these farmers, for these individual businesses. Either that or with open eyes and without any prior notice, a proposal involving tax returns for a number of individual enterprises has been addressed. I actually don't know what's bad. As a result of the civil budgetary agreement and the negotiations in Stortinget, the government is going to review the impact on farmers – for agriculture. That's absolutely necessary. Although there will be some exceptions to the principle of continuity in the agricultural sector, the loss of the ability to write down the values of machinery, livestock, etc. would appear to be a serious problem. In practice, operating buildings will only be able to write up to 75 pst. of the value. The inheritance tax has in fact been a very small burden for those who take over the farm, while the possibility of depreciation has been very favourable for young farmers who take over. The peasants themselves have calculated that the changes for their part can amount to about 1 billion. kr per year. I have registered and got with me that the Minister of Finance believes that that figure is too high. It's possible, but it's a number that it's very difficult for us as big-time politicians to assess, because the Ministry of Finance itself has no answer to how much effect it's going to have. I expect that it is because this is something the Minister of Finance does not have an overview of. To the Nations on 13 November, she said at least that the Ministry of Finance does not have sufficient information to assess to what extent the example calculations referred to by the League are representative. If she's jerked off to get a better overview now, it would have been nice if she gave us figures on it today, but that we're talking about a significant tax return for an industry that initially has problems with recruitment, is quite obvious. The favourable depreciation rules have been there to ensure food production and to ensure activity throughout the country. The changes should not have happened without any process or advance notice, and we have voted against them, but once it has been done, it is good that the government should review the consequences for Norwegian farmers in retrospect. Of course, we voted in favour of the proposal for that review. But it makes it all the more difficult to understand why the government has shown no interest whatsoever in seeing how the transition to the principle of continuity turns out for other types of individual entities. This is not something that will only affect farmers. It is through inheritance and gift transfer that the business activities and property subject to a profit tax on sale are of the greatest importance to the principle of continuity. One thing is that this will affect everyone who inherits a secondary dwelling. That, I mean, is not the most serious thing. The serious thing is that this concerns a large number of individual enterprises, even outside the agricultural sector. These may include taxi owners, individual undertakings owning excavators, etc., etc. According to the Confederation of Enterprises, the removal of the inheritance tax is subject to tax consequences for 220,000 individual enterprises. "If the proposal remains standing, we risk that many family businesses will end up," said CEO Lars Erik Sletner of the Business Federation. They asked the government in the fall to turn around. The government didn't. In the financial debate, repeated attempts were made by red-green representatives to find out whether these were consequences overseen by the Minister of Finance. It has been speculated whether this has been an accident at work, and whether, if it was an accident at work, she will be willing to review the consequences for this group as well. We never got an answer to that. The only thing the Minister of Finance spoke about was the work of lowering the overall tax burden. It may be interesting in itself to hear the finance minister's thoughts about taxes and taxes in general, but that was not the general level of taxation we asked about then, and that is not what I am asking about today. I ask whether it has been the intention of the Council of State to increase the tax burden on potentially 220 000 individual companies when the inheritance tax was abolished and whether she will take the initiative to review how the new tax rules apply to this group as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e150	Let me also take the opportunity to wish Stortinget a really good new year. I look forward to many and exciting debates this year. On a proposal from the Government of Prop. 1 LS Appendix 1 for 2013–2014 The Storting has decided to remove the inheritance tax and to introduce a continuity principle for the determination of tax values for assets acquired by inheritance and gift. Continuity means that the heir or recipient takes over the tax values and positions of the predecessor. Once the inheritance fee has been removed, a fee that many have long wanted to get rid of will disappear. The removal of the inheritance fee facilitates the liquidity burden of generation change in family businesses and the transfer of family property to the next generation. Removing the inheritance tax would make it easier for taxpayers because they no longer have to deal with a comprehensive regulatory framework. At the same time, the administrative costs of the Tax Administration are reduced. In the proposition, the government has described the effects of introducing the continuity principle for determining the tax input value of operating assets and other assets after the removal of the inheritance tax. The effects described are that the continuity principle can result in a greater tax burden on the inheritance or the recipient of the gift because the recipient cannot write down the input value of assets at market value. Depending on the evolution of the market value of operating assets in relation to the tax base, this may result in lower depreciation deductions on continuing operations or a higher taxable gain on sale. That would be the case if the assets had a lower tax base than market value. Continuity may also result in higher depreciation deductions and a lower taxable gain if the market value of operating assets is less than tax base. This is an advantage that you didn't have with the previous principle of discontinuity. When an operating asset has fallen in value more than the tax depreciation, discontinuity led to the loss of the right to deduct from this decrease. With continuity, the tax base may be continued and continued to be depreciated by the recipient, irrespective of the decrease in value of the operating assets. If depreciation rates correctly reflect impairment of operating assets, there shall in principle be no difference between tax and market value. When the market value is higher than the tax value, this is likely to indicate that the depreciation rates are too high and that donors or heirs have received excessive deductions from income through the depreciation rules. I do not think it reasonable or reasonable that an additional benefit should be given in terms of the adjustment of the depreciation basis to the market value of inheritance and gift. The effects of introducing continuity are complex and often bring benefits and disadvantages. Continuity also means that, as a general rule, heirs take over the predecessor's tax positions for income or deduction. This applies, for example: the positive gain account for income management. A positive gain account represents a tax credit for the taxpayer by allowing taxation of gains to be allocated over several years. So far, the rule has been that a positive gain account should be paid in the event of death. That is, the tax credit ceases to exist. Continuity, on the other hand, gives the advantage that the heirs can continue the tax credit contained in the plan of the gain and loss account and other tax positions for income management. With continuity, the heirs also acquire tax positions for deduction. This may, for example: if the deceased person or the deceased person does not have income to cover the deficit, the carryable loss on the hand of the heirs would fall away under the previous rules. Continuity opens up the possibility that the carryable deficit and other tax positions entailing deductions from income may continue to be exploited by the heirs in the further operation of the activities of taxpayers or be exploited against other taxable income which the heirs may have. The impact on traders of the introduction of the principle of continuity is therefore rather complex and partly nuanced. Someone will come out worse, while others will profit from it. It has not been an objective of the changes to increase the tax burden on beneficiaries of inheritance and gift. When removing the inheritance tax, it has been my intention to maintain the coherence of the tax system. The goal has been to have rules that are neutral and that give non-discrimination. I believe we have achieved that. Continuity means that the same tax results are obtained if operating assets are sold before or after inheritance or gift. Heirs or recipients of gifts do not come out better than the predecessor, but they do not get worse. This reduces the possibility and need for tax planning in the case of generational shifts. When the inheritance fee is removed, a write-up allowance could result in double depreciation allowances for the same investment when heirs and heirs are seen together. At that time, there would also be no gain tax on capitalisation of inheritances or the ownership time of donors. I therefore believe that a right to write down the tax value of inheritance and gift would be a mere inheritance subsidy from the state. Moreover, without continuity of inheritance and gift, it would be easy to circumvent the profit tax for the holder of individual enterprises. In this case, profit-taxation could be avoided by a gift that results in a write-up of the tax base at market value, with subsequent sales by the recipient of the gift without taxation of the increase in value. It is an important principle in the Tax Act that different forms of organisation should be treated equally. In the case of shares in limited liability companies and shares in unit-linked companies, there has been a principle of continuity in inheritance and gift since 2005. When e.g. shares in family-owned companies are transferred at a generation change, the new owners must take over the predecessor's entry value and protection basis without any possibility of rewriting those values at market value. The introduction of continuity also for self-employed persons in the event of the removal of the inheritance tax therefore gives greater non-discrimination for the transfer of activities in individual enterprises and for the transfer of shares and units in companies. Exemptions from the continuity have been made for certain assets that are or could be sold tax-free under separate exemption rules in the Tax Act. This includes housing, recreational housing and general farm and forestry. The exemption is justified on the grounds that it is reasonable and logical for the recipient to take over the position that the predecessor had to sell free of tax. Of all commercial activities, only agricultural properties have such a deduction from taxes on profits. For all other assets in industry, gain is taxable and loss deductible on sale. This tax settlement is a fundamental feature of our business taxation. It ensures that capitalisation on commercial assets is taxed and tax credits in excess of depreciation is returned to taxation. Furthermore, it provides for a decrease in the value of assets to be deducted through a loss. As long as we have had the inheritance tax, there has been a tax settlement through the fact that the beneficiary is subject to inheritance tax for the value established as a new tax input. When such tax settlement from 2014 will no longer take place as a result of the removal of the inheritance tax, there would be a material breach of a central principle for our tax system if a person had a right to write down tax values by inheritance and gift. I believe that the introduction of continuity in the removal of the inheritance fee ensures that the context of the tax system is well taken into account. The write-up option can be seen as a compensation for the disadvantage represented by the inheritance fee. When the inheritance fee disappears, it is reasonable and logical that the write-up allowance also lapses. As part of the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government will review the tax rules for farmers in the light of the changes related to the inheritance tax. The removal of the inheritance fee is in itself an advantage for the farmers, as for other beneficiaries of inheritance and gifts. The abolition of the inheritance tax is in isolation a lower tax burden, and farmers in particular can have easier generational shifts. At the same time, the principle of continuity can be of greater benefit to farmers. However, the results for farmers must be seen in the context of the fact that we initially have many favourable tax rules for agriculture. Some of these favourable rules are of less importance when the inheritance tax is abolished. I think this illustrates that there are many special and complex tax rules for the agricultural sector. I am not against supporting agriculture through the tax system, but I am in favour of simple and transparent tax rules for this sector. I therefore believe that a review of these rules will be useful. I will come back to this in the revised national budget. However, I will not initiate a review of the impact of the principle of continuity on non-agricultural activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e194	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the answer, and that was quite elucidating towards the end. It's okay enough to get an explanation of what the principle of continuity is, and what has been the current legislation, but I think most people who follow this case are quite clear. I think most people have also found out what is the reason for removing the inheritance fee. But what I've been busy about is getting an answer as to whether it was the Minister of Finance's intention to hit individuals' businesses this way. Now she says it wasn't the intention, but that's the consequence. And if this was meant all the way – and that's how it can happen when I hear the Minister of Finance talking now – it's okay to get it clear. What it is then very close to asking yourself is why you never found it too good to tell the farmers, to the owners of these individuals before the election. I am quite sure that they would have thought that it was relevant information. The Minister of Finance also refers to the fact that, in the event of an impairment, the transition to continuity can be an advantage. Of course it's like that, there's a symmetry in this. But we don't know how many companies there would be in the case, how this would cancel out with the corporate structure we have. That is why I am asking whether the Minister of Finance could be willing to go through the impact for individual enterprises outside the agricultural sector. Now she's negatively answering that, that she's not going to do that. I think that's a pity, because it would be relevant information to have. I also ask myself, after hearing the Minister of Finance's answer, what is the point of the review to be done for the agricultural sector, for the farmers, because it seems to the greatest extent that the Minister of Finance has already concluded. There's been a discussion about numbers. We have discussed the calculations of the Landerlag, which the Minister of Finance probably believes is too high. But we have a figure that we've talked less about, and it's the corporate association's estimate that the conversion to the principle of continuity will have consequences for 220,000 individual enterprises of different kinds. Does the Minister of Finance have any opinion on that number? Does it seem to be a reasonable estimate, in accordance with the overview of the Minister for Finance himself? When I'm busy getting an answer to this, it's because I'm trying to understand why the Minister of Finance is so unwilling to look at the consequences for these companies. Is it because she believes that the Company is wrong, that this is not going to affect family businesses in the way that the Company fears? Or does the Minister of Finance simply mean that these small businesses are not so very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e211	I think it's important that the Storting uses the opportunity to discuss the principle of continuity, perhaps primarily because it's demanding and complicated and difficult to get an overview of, and I think it's important that we have a round on it. But what is even more important is to look at the context of the overall tax system. Although I said that I am not going to review the very principle of continuity, that does not mean that we are not going to review all the tax rules. What is the situation is that, in the context of the current year's government budget, we gave tax reliefs of between 7 and 8 billion. kr. Individual enterprises, businesses in general and ordinary households benefit in a wide variety of ways. The fact that we have now succeeded in removing the inheritance fee is considered positive. For the vast majority of those who receive inheritance, there has been a significant challenge to pay ‘death taxes’, which many have chosen to call it. What we're constantly working on is going through all the other parts of the tax system. We have announced a review of the depreciation rules, and it looks at the work now being done by the Scheel Committee, which has an important job of looking at both corporate taxes and the opportunities to harmonise them with countries around us. In this context, of course, we also look at personal taxation. We are reviewing various charges, including the car charge system. The sum of all these changes, and the fact that the government has already begun to work with new reliefs in the tax on wealth, will be in favour of both Norwegian businesses in a demanding competitive situation and of individual households. The sum of this is good, but on the way there, we also have to maintain some principles in the tax system. That's also why this government, unlike the previous one, chose to reduce both corporate taxes and personal taxes to 27 pst, because we thought it would be a violation of the harmony of the tax system if you just reduced corporate taxes. I was a little surprised that the Labour Party in the government chose to make a proposal of that kind. We followed up to maintain the continuity of the system and intend to assess this kind of question further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e226	I thank you for the interpellation, which is of particular importance to many of those who are engaged in industry in this country – especially individual enterprises, and not least in agriculture and forestry. It is with some wonder that I have heard this debate so far – in particular the main speech to the Minister of Finance. To the extent that we have not previously heard the «maiden economists» in the Ministry of Finance of the United Kingdom, I think we clearly heard them under the Prime Minister's main posts. I cannot – professionally speaking – disagree with some of the finance minister’s description of the principle of continuity and the effects it may have, but the sad thing about that statement is that the consequences of the amendments that came when the inheritance tax was removed are very little seen. As the interpellant has also been involved, this has a larger impact field than just agriculture and forestry. I think, with all due respect, that it would be important to carry out the same assessment and review of impacts on activities other than agriculture and forestry. Why wouldn't you? What kind of special consideration is there to avoid an assessment of the consequences of this for many of those who run individual enterprises around the country? Much of the same vulnerability we see, both in terms of getting into the industry by inheritance or gift or whatever it might be, and standing in the industry, most of the same applies to these. So I think it's sad that you don't want to do such a review as the interpellant actually asks for. With regard to those who are engaged in agriculture and forestry, the government has clearly signaled the need to have predictable framework conditions, to create optimism in the industry, and to facilitate new recruitment. This has been a mantra from several state councils, but in particular from the Minister of Agriculture. What we're experiencing now, with this, is actually going in the opposite direction. You can do some discussions around the question of what is appropriate, and what creates the best possible administrative tax system, but I would think that for a Right Party government, it would be particularly important to look at the overall economic impact of the traders. A new actor in agriculture, e.g. So a dairy farmer who starts after a generation change, with these proposals, would come out with a tax tightening – as calculated by the Bondelag, and I have no reason to doubt it; I have no other number that would give us other signals – totaling over NOK 200,000 in the first three years. The interesting thing when people, voters and we in the Grand Duchy are going to assess how the inheritance tax is going to turn out, and assess regime changes in tax policy, must be: What is the total burden? At the same time, we know that many of these new actors who go into agriculture – and want to go into it – have not exactly been met with predictability and optimism regarding the other framework conditions under which they will work. This applies to the customs regime, where we have had a significant debate in the last few months, but also to the notifications that have been made on budget support, and not least to the measures taken in relation to the trade budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, where they were largely implemented only by cutbacks. That is why this is only part of a policy that does not help to create more optimism and does not help to facilitate new recruitment. It is a policy that actually helps to make it easier to get out of the industry, because it is suggested that leaving the industry – either by gift or through a pre-empted inheritance change – will reduce the inheritance tax, and then the great burden lies on those who remain in the industry and take over. That is why I think it is wise to carry out a review of agriculture, but I think that this work should be expanded considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e245	It is good that the inheritance fee has been removed in its entirety with effect from 1 January of this year. The right went to the elections, among others. to remove the inheritance tax, and we are very pleased that it is removed in its entirety already in this first state budget. The removal of the inheritance tax is important for several reasons. Interpellant questions whether we are engaged in business in Norway. I can guarantee that the Right is concerned with the framework conditions for business, and the removal of the inheritance fee is part of this. It will facilitate generational shifts in family-run enterprises. I want to use an example from the 2009 election campaign. A ventilation company called Covent, which I myself and several other politicians from other parties visited in this election campaign, is – or was – a family-owned company with about 100 employees in a municipality with under 3,000 inhabitants. This municipality is otherwise a large municipality of agriculture, which means that these industrial workplaces come relatively well into this municipality. This company, Covent, was sold to Spanish owners a few years ago, mainly because of the inheritance tax and the property tax, which made the generation change difficult for these two families that owned this company. The company now lives well with Spanish owners, but this company is probably representative of a large number of medium-sized family-owned Norwegian companies. Hopefully, we avoid that the kind of families have to sell their businesses now that we have removed the inheritance tax in its entirety and are working to reduce the property tax. We want a strong Norwegian private ownership, and the removal of the inheritance fee contributes to this. The removal is also important in order to retain family property within the family, especially in families with low income when the inheritance tax existed and would take over properties with high market value. The removal of the inheritance tax is also essential in order to avoid tax adaptation and the corresponding red tape that this entails on the public side. So there are many good reasons to remove the inheritance fee. As the Council of State has explained, the removal of the inheritance tax and the introduction of the so-called continuity principle for economic operators mean that it will bring benefits to some and disadvantages to others. In isolation, a tax increase of 200 to 300 million is estimated. For some groups, but the big picture — and that’s what’s important to take into account — is tax relief of up to 2 billion. kr per year for a number of enterprises and individuals. Devices for compensating for the consequences of the inheritance tax should not initially be necessary after the fee has been removed. In that case, it would be a purely tax subsidy, which the Minister of Finance was also involved in. The Minister of Finance has made it clear in his statement that the government will not review parts of the business other than agriculture. And as far as agriculture is concerned, it is appropriate to mention that agriculture, even with the removal of the inheritance tax on 1 January 2014, retains some special advantages that other industries do not have. Agriculture has had more favourable rules for inheritance tax and the determination of tax input value for property than any other industry. The government proposes more favourable rules for agricultural property than for any other industry in the future, but it is true that the rules will not be as favourable as before. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have committed ourselves to a review of the impact of the change on agriculture, and there are several good reasons for this. Other types of company may adapt to change in a way that is different from that of the farmers; the farmers may, among other things, be able to adapt to change. not be organised in a limited liability company. The special feature of agricultural property is that this is also at home for the sole proprietor – you live and work on the farm – and it also makes it a special feature. We are prepared by the Right to await the review of the impact on agriculture of the closure of the inheritance tax with effect from 1 January 2014, and we look forward to the results which, under the budget agreement and the signals given by the Minister of Finance today, will come into the revised national budget this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e266	It is actually quite affordable that the Workers' Party now focuses so heavily on the level of taxation in Norway and has become so concerned about business. That's what we're going to take with us. Indeed, the actual situation is that significant tax reliefs have been implemented for 2014, including: by removing the inheritance fee for all, with effect from 1 January of this year. It is positive and simplifies the individual taxpayer, while at the same time reducing the administrative costs of the tax haven. However, what is a little difficult to understand is that the Workers' Party appears to be so committed to defending tax adjustments in a tax regime, even when this charge is removed. The State as a co-heir has contributed to adaptations to eliminate some negative consequences of the inheritance tax. In the absence of this charge, the basis for these adjustments will also be removed, making the system much simpler and more transparent. The reason for recording the entry value of assets has been the inheritance tax. Now, this possibility lapses as a consequence of the removal of the fee. This is simple for most people – the introduction of the principle of continuity can give some negative results, but it is mainly beneficial for all generations, and of course also for industry. By inheriting the predecessor's tax position for income or deduction, there will be equal treatment of different forms of organisation in industry. Owners are treated equally regardless of whether the business is organised in an individual or a limited liability company. This ensures fiscal non-discrimination for all taxpayers. Removal of the inheritance tax is one of several measures to reduce the overall level of taxation in Norway. General tax reliefs, for both industry and personal taxpayers, are an essential element of the financial framework for 2014. It is absolutely necessary to stimulate investment and continued growth in the mainland economy. Relievement of more than 7 billion. is a confirmation of both the will and the ability to implement a new policy. Both individuals and business owners have been quite united in their claim that the inheritance fee be removed because it has resulted in unfair results. Now it is a reality. From 1 January this year it is a reality: it is gone. Now these expectations have been met by the Right Party Government. It does not end there, for the government will, of course, work on further measures, which will have a positive impact on the vast majority of taxpayers. The impact on agriculture has been much discussed. It is a reality that agriculture has been and remains in a special position with regard to different tax systems that appear to be very favourable. This has been decided by the Stortinget to provide a further review. The complexity and scope of the different schemes are sought for a more thorough and deeper review of them. However, with regard to the general effects of the removal of the inheritance tax and the introduction of the principle of continuity, this is already mentioned in the supplementary budget of the State budget for 2014. Some estimates of proceeds — the tax proceeds — have also been provided as a consequence of the changes that are being made. Thus, there should be no further review, but on the contrary, for both personal taxpayers and business owners in general, to enjoy the fact that the total tax burden is falling.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e289	It is always refreshing to start a new year with a tax debate – actually an extension of the debate on the budget we adopted before Christmas. I want from the Christian People's Party to refer to that decision that a unanimous magnificence has taken around the very question that the interpellant raises. That's what it says. ‘The government asks the tax legislation for farmers to be reviewed in the light of the changes related to the inheritance tax, and to return to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget for 2014.’ It's a review we, from the Christian People's Party, look forward to getting. Of course, most people will be happy that the inheritance fee disappears. I think it was a bit polite when the representative, Marthinsen, expressed the idea of applying tax austerity. It's a rhetoric I haven't always heard from that edge, to say it like that. But it's interesting in this setting to listen to just the rhetoric. As far as farmers are concerned, which has been a particular theme on this issue, it is, as many have said, a favourable tax regime. Of course, writing the same values twice at a generation change is a very positive rule. You can look at this question from different angles, and I understand that a finance department is looking at this from what would be a 100 pst. logically perfect and spot-free tax system. There should then not be so many exceptions – preferably none – and streamline the regulatory framework. Now, however, it's once and for all so that the system has its exceptions. It has, and it will, in fact, still have, because one also wants to achieve political objectives other than just to have the simplest possible tax system. This has not least been important in terms of policy objectives for the industry that has been particularly focused here, namely the agricultural industry. For the individual, it's not going to get away from the fact that it's going to be the final sum that counts. Although it may be logical to argue for changes — the principle of continuity should be introduced and the principle of discontinuity should be abolished — it is not possible to avoid the fact that for each trader the final sum is the one that counts. I understand those who ask themselves, when we wind up the inheritance tax, is it reasonable that it implies a tax tightening for me? I understand that question, and that is also the background that we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, were concerned with getting the verbal proposal to which a unanimous magnification has joined, adopted. For farmers, of course, this also has a connection with the fact that the valuation of their commercial property has generally been very low. So it was all the more advantageous to be able to write the same values twice. The inheritance tax has not often been the important issue in this context. I am concerned about a good system, but we also have to make sure that we do not become so rigid system defenders that we do not see the practical consequences for those who are actually affected by the policies we adopt in this house. That's from the point of view of the review that the ministry and government are going to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e320	You remember a lot of things from last year. One thing I remember is a number of agricultural debates with my honorary co-representative Svein Flötten and the then co-representative Torgeir Träldal. I then said that it would be incredibly demanding for agriculture to carry out the kind of reductions in transfers that the Right and the Advance Party want, and that it would be very demanding for agriculture if we made the changes that the Right and the Advance Party wanted in customs matters. Then the fleet said that I, as Minister of Agriculture, would take it easy, because the Right would provide very favourable tax arrangements for Norwegian agriculture, and a tax package would compensate for all the horror propaganda that I came with. From the people's meeting to the people's meeting, throughout the country, the Right Party and the Advance Party traveled around promising tax reliefs to Norwegian agriculture – not tax incentives. That's why it's wonderful to sit here and listen to the debate. The Minister of Finance is going up to the pulpit, the right is going up to the pulpit and the Progress Party is going up to the pulpit, and everyone is talking about the extremely favourable tax arrangements in agriculture. By 10 July at the latest – in the United Nations – the Progress Party was out and promised that the depreciation rates would be better for agriculture if they gained power. When you hear Siv Jensen speaking here in the hall, you hear exactly the opposite. What's said between the lines is that the depreciation rates are a little bit too good, that's what this example shows, and that we need a review to look at it. This was not said once before the election. It was said that the inheritance fee should be removed, but nothing was said about the back of the medal; it was thought that the general tax rules for this industry were too good. There is a serious breach of the electoral contract that the Progress Party and the Right have entered into. One of the most important aspects of fiscal policy is predictability, and not least for capital-intensive industries predictability is crucial. The tax change claimed by the Minister of Finance does not mean much has caused the number of farm transfers to double over the Christmas season. The country's accounting offices have had a real celebration to get over the farm transfers. They haven't because they're so stupid. They've done that because they can count and see that it's a big tax tightening that's happening. In my home district, the accounting office said it would be about. 300000–400000 kroner in tax aggravation per use if you had waited until next year. It is clear that 300,000–400,000 kroner in tax incentives are a lot for a single family, and especially when you promised the opposite. There's something amazing about the whole discussion about removing the discontinuity principle, this is that you decide first and you have to figure it out afterwards. A general advice from an old government member is to investigate first and then decide. It is a completely new practice in Norwegian policy that we first adopt and then investigate the consequences. We haven't been given an answer to what tax incentives this gives. For the year we're in now, this isn't going to be a tax tightening, but in 2015, 2016 and 2017, when you don't have the ability to rewrite the values, then the tax tightening comes. We have not received an answer to this, nor does the Minister of Finance want to calculate the tax incentives this provides for individual enterprises around the whole of Norway in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and the years ahead. One might wonder why the Minister of Finance does not want to have the best possible facts, and why a new principle has been introduced in the Grand Duchy; that one should first adopt and then investigate. It must be quite strange for the Christian People's Party and the Left to hear this debate, because these parties got – as a kind of straw straw – to have an investigation. That was, like, the solution to the budget package. What the investigation will be used for, when you hear what the Minister of Finance says, is to go through all the highly favourable special schemes for Norwegian agriculture. It's obvious that what you really want is to do more tax-enforcement. There has been no positive attitude to take any action that compensates, some action that stimulates. This also falls into a pattern, now that we have seen the Progress Party carry out the highest diesel tax application of the time, higher than what a batch has ever done in Norway. Had I said in September, in the election campaign in Hedmark, that if you vote on Tor André Johnsen, you will get the time's diesel charge increase, a huge fee jump and a more unpredictable tax policy, then it would have been said that it was scare propaganda. Now it is a reality. It's amazing, and I think it's amazing that the Minister of Finance doesn't want to get the facts out and expand the investigation to the 220 000 individual companies, not just agriculture. The centre party has often been accused of just being concerned about agriculture, but we have said in the whole discussion about inheritance tax and the principle of discontinuity that we need to investigate the consequences for everyone, not just for one industry. This affects the excavator company, the taxi driver, the joiner company – an incredible number of companies – but Siv Jensen and the Progress Party have adopted a tax tightening without knowing the consequences. It's a new practice, and it's going to punish itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e335	I think this is the first time I've been involved in discussing a case in the Stortinget that has been adopted, but we don't know the consequences, and neither does the majority – apparently – want to get a full overview of the consequences. It is clear that everyone wants as simple a tax system as possible. It's a matter of course. But the way there has quite a lot to say. In this way, the interpellant has not received an answer to what she asked for at all. From the new government it's now starting to plot a pattern. It announced tax credits for an additional measure — refurbishment — without immediate follow-up. It created serious problems for the industry. It goes without saying that it happens, but the government still chose to go forward that way. The government cut short in the tool for industrial development in the districts while talking about growth capacity, and thus now introduces large tax cuts that do not have an impact on business, and associated changes in the tax system without apparently having an overview of the impact at all. It is, as the representative for the Battle of Vedum quite rightly said: usually the order is the other way around. You get an overview of the consequences first, you think this is a good idea to do, and then you make a decision. If this case demonstrates something – as I have also said before – it is that the government is good at prioritizing. The government has decided what's most important. Large tax cuts have been given priority to those groups that have largely supported the election campaign to the Right and the Advance Party, and the consequences for tens of thousands of ordinary entrepreneurs and farmers will have to be taken care of later. I don't know if they feel that this way of going forward is particularly reassuring, especially when the majority does not show the will to look at the consequences this has for everyone other than farmers, and perhaps especially when you've heard what the Minister of Finance really means by looking at the effects this has on farmers. I fully agree with the representative from the Central Party that what I heard was a reminder of how good farmers are, and where it was suggested that many of the benefits of the farmers in the tax system are unfair and should be reviewed. So that's the way it goes when you get confused into the belief that the tax level alone is important. When you run a campaign that so monolithically focuses on cutting taxes, without seeing the big whole, and when you look at those degrees, you commit to the mast of election vows to cut taxes, everything else has to fold. Then the unintentioned consequences just come. The costs incurred by farmers and other traders can only be met, because there are some groups on the right and the Progress Party has made a commitment. They're going to get paid, cost what it's going to cost. They get that now, but it has great consequences for ordinary people who do hard and good work in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e345	The matter is well-lit by the interpellant from the Labour Party, so I do not want to go into the case complex except to say that this debate shows that this interpellation was absolutely necessary and useful at the beginning of the year. I thought it was interesting to hear the Minister of Finance's thorough review of the principle of continuity. Now the debate isn't really about it, but it was a useful review and a principled outline of it. The Labour Party is not against the principle of continuity, but, as several representatives have now said, we have adjustments in our tax system that have made other models necessary. This is not a debate on it. It is not a debate on the inheritance tax in general. We also had a proposal for reductions in this area. Nor is it a debate that this government used several billion crowns of oil to finance its tax reliefs. But that's the scheme that was chosen here, that's that you put forward a proposal that had a lot of consequences, that got a little bit of mention. So it had to be press releases and reactions from the industry itself, which set and calculated the consequences, for us in the Finance Committee and the Stortinge to raise questions that these consequences had to be thoroughly investigated. I join the representatives of Vedum and Valen who say that there is a strange situation we are in, that we have a decision on a quite significant change, and then we have to wait and see the consequences. I hope the Minister of Finance can say something about – although I fully understand that the revision will come in a few months – what thoughts she is thinking. I perceive that she says she doesn't want to look at other companies and the consequences for them. I'm critical of that, but I take note that she doesn't want to do it. But what solutions could she imagine for agriculture and the farmers in the situation that is now being heard? It could be interesting to get an indication of that – knowing that the final budget will only be slightly later in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e352	We do not know the consequences of the removal of the inheritance fee, says all the red-green speakers. Of course we do. We know that every year will be close to 2 billion. kr less is charged for inheritance fees by individuals who can then take over houses and cabins, and by people who own shares in companies, who can carry out generational changes. We're talking about 2 billion, which also largely benefits business. This is also a debate on how to deal with depreciation, because that is what we are talking about when we talk about the principle of continuity. How to handle depreciation? Earlier, when you had an inheritance tax, you could write down the value again at the market value for which you took over and get a new depreciation in individual companies – this also applies to farmers, who are also what we are discussing. Depreciation means a tax relief – I am glad that the red-greens today are fighting hard for further tax relief – which would mean that what you had spent once more could be spent once more. When the Storting has now decided that the inheritance tax has been removed, because it is, it is also necessary to discuss which principles should now apply to depreciation. Should you have a principle of continuity? In particular, the Labour Party, by its Finance Minister, has for years rejected any approach from the bourgeois parties in this Chamber to use depreciation to stimulate Norwegian business for more investment and has always pointed out that there should be a correlation between impairment and depreciation – and when you are not sure of that, you will not go into this. Now I see that even the Workers' Party wants to go away from these principles. When you paid the inheritance tax, you had already paid something, because you got this advantage of being able to rewrite it. That's what this is all about. There is also an similarity with all those who have organised their business in other ways, and most of them, through limited liability companies, where, after 2005, there has never been a possibility of having any discontinuity in this regard. So one more theme: Several speakers, including the interpellant, have referred to the Farmer's calculations of what are the losses. That's what you take for good fish, while you reject what comes from the Department and the Statistical Central Bureau. The farmer's calculations are based on a couple of thousand generation shifts in the year, where the average acquisition is to be 12,5 million. So I'm going to spend 25 billion dollars. kr every one year. But the statistics of those recording this say that there are about half of the numbers changing, down to 1000 – 1000 and 1,300 in the last two years, which make up the available statistics, and the values are from 1 billion. kr up to 1.5 billion. kr. I think that before we in this room use this kind of starting point for political discussions, those who bring such a basis into the discussions should, in a completely different way, guarantee quality what it really is we're talking about. Having said that, I also welcome what the Storting has said quite unisonally and unanimously: in the light of the changes that have taken place, you have to go in and look at the importance of this in agriculture, because this with generational shifts is special in agriculture. There is no form of limited liability company – it is the form of the individual company that is located there. So I look forward to it being revised. I don't assume that this review gives either one or the other result. To that I go with a completely open mind and expect the department to take all the necessary considerations to provide a good basis for our judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e365	I would like to start by thanking the representative Marthinen for the interpellation. The centre party is initially not a major beneficiary of the inheritance fee. In our program we have a model with a bottom subtraction. I think it is worth noting when you talk about the importance of removing the inheritance fee. The previous government agreed to a significant increase in the deduction from the inheritance tax, which would mean relief. Tax is not just about how much the tax burden is, but also about how the tax burden is distributed. Whether private individuals or businesses are covered is not irrelevant. This government has shown a pattern where it is the districts affected by their grip. I can mention the network lease and the reduction of the balancing there. The mineral oil levy and the substantial increase in the diesel tax related to it, the CO2 compensation scheme that will affect rural businesses, and the inheritance-related scheme, can be mentioned. The special thing about this case, as I see it as the starting point for the interpellation, is the process that has been around this, and a sincere desire to know more about the consequences of the change that has been made. I cannot understand the opposition of the government to extending the work to be done in relation to the revised budget to individual enterprises. I wonder how the Progress Party would speak if they were in opposition, and the League of Bonds and the Federation brought such clear accusations against a tax change. I don't think they would settle down on it and say that this is well done. There would be a demand for answers. The debate today has also shown that the comments of the Left and Christian People's Party can prove to be of little value. I have understood that the conclusions of this have been drawn. That's what worries me. That might be the disadvantage of driving policies from the trailer. The Minister of Finance gave a formal and theoretical argument for the principle of continuity. I don't think either the farmer or the company owner are familiar with the descriptions given there. In any case, it doesn't answer what consequences this will have for real people in real life. That is what you would like to comment on. There is also no good reason why we should have a review for farmers, but not for other traders who are affected. Then you might say that the Stortinget should have asked when the budget was dealt with, yes, but this is precisely a consequence of the adoption of something first and adding up to a subsequent investigation work. Then such situations will arise. I think it's special that the government says no when it comes to such a clear wish from the opposition. But what may make me most concerned about what we have heard today, and which was a little bit between the lines of the statement that was given about the principle of continuity, is the Minister of Finance's harsh criticism of the depreciation rates that apply today. It shined through quite clearly. The consequences of the challenges in this case are that there is a mismatch between real value decline and tax decline. Correcting this, it will be a tax attack and have tax consequences that go far beyond what is the theme of this debate. It has been prepared for what was said in the election campaign. I was running an election campaign in Rogaland, hopping with the representative Meling. Neither did I hear her mention these challenges. I am absolutely sure that the voters we met in debate together, would have liked to hear about this – and not just about the gloss side of the medal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e387	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate. It has been elucidating in this way that we now know that the Minister of Finance will not go through the consequences for individual enterprises outside the agricultural industry. That's too bad. The representatives of the citizens have been busy talking about how great it is that the inheritance fee is removed. For the most part, we also saw that the inheritance fee had some unfortunate results. That's why we suggested raising the bottom deduction to 1 million. kr in our draft budget for 2014. We did not give priority to removing the inheritance fee for those who inherit the most. It's not that you're doing something about the inheritance fee, we're criticising here today. This is the conversion to the principle of continuity and the consequences it has for farmers and individuals, to which we are critical. Nor is it continuity as a principle in the tax system we are attacking. But this came entirely without any investigations, completely without any prior notice, with consequences for large classes that no one had an overview of. The only thing I've asked for through this interpellation is that the Minister of Finance looks at the consequences for individuals' businesses in the same way that she has committed herself through the budgetary conciliation to do for farmers. These individual enterprises do not have the same depreciation options as the agricultural sector. These are the forms of depreciation that the citizens, through this debate – particularly by the Minister of Finance – have made a strong effort to explain the unfairness of this debate. I still find it strange that the same politicians didn't have any need to communicate exactly this to Norwegian farmers before the election. It is terribly difficult to understand the difference between a farmer who is affected by the transition to continuity, and a taxi owner who is hit by the same thing. After this debate, I still cannot explain it. There is, strictly speaking, no one else here who has been able to do it. It should actually be a quite obvious thing that Stortinget gets proper information about how a conversion like this turns out. We should have got it when the rule change came. When we didn't get it, we should at least be able to get it afterwards. I'm recording that the review we want is not coming. I have trouble understanding the resistance to it. Map to the agent Fleet. If the fleet had heard of it, he would have heard me say that it might well be that the Farmer's number is too high – very well. But we don't know, because the Minister of Finance himself has said that she doesn't have enough information to assess whether the estimates of the Bondelag are representative. We are in this situation because the decision has been made first, and then you take the investigation later. Once again, I would like to thank you for the debate. I expect that this is a question we will come back to in the context of the revised budget, when we get the review of agriculture on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e406	Since the representative Marthinsen was concerned that we should listen to what she actually said, I think I would recommend her and others to listen to what I have actually said. What I have said through this debate is that I see no reason for a new review of the principle of continuity. On the other hand, what I have announced is a review of different aspects of the overall tax system in Norway. I have made changes to the terms of reference of the Scheel Committee with a view to making improvements instead of being neutral in proceeds, which was the ambition of the previous government. We have announced a review of the depreciation rules and rates, precisely because it is important to see it in conjunction with the rest of the tax system. We have announced a review of different aspects of the charging system, but not to increase the overall tax burden in Norway. This government has the ambition to reduce the tax burden. We did the first step in the current year's budget, through a total reduction of 7 billion. kr. It's a relief equal to the total intensity of the red-green government over the last eight years. I find it interesting to note that the former government parties are now signaling the willingness to support the government's proposals for new relief in the future. That's good. It has at least this government as ambition. So I noticed the question from the representative Gahr Støre. Once the government has announced that we will return to the revised budget with a review of the tax rules on agriculture, it will be based on the unanimous decision taken by the Stortinget. I would like to add that the government platform says that we will use «targeted tax changes to strengthen the farmer's financial position». What this debate is really about is an attempt to create the impression that removing the inheritance tax is a problem. No, it's not a problem. On the contrary, it is an advantage for everyone, most people, that a hateful fee is gone. It is this government’s ambition to continue to simplify the tax system, to red tape the tax system and to provide overall relief in tax pressures in Norway. Hans Olav Syversen said it's the final sum that counts. I fully agree with that. What we need to look at is the total impact of the total tax burden and how it affects individual industries, businesses in general and households. It has this government as ambition. Creating the impression that there has now been an increase in tax pressure in Norway is becoming a direct error. This government, with support from Stortinget, has reduced the tax burden in Norway by over 7 billion. kr. That work will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e421	Debates of the European Parliament So 1 is going to be equal to 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-07.ana.ud2264e434	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
