ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e115	The representatives of Jenny Klinge, Mazyar Keshvari, Arild Grande and Heidi Greni, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has requested a permit to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris by Mr Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen on 3 and 4 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Lene Langemyr, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e147	The representative Lene Langemyr is present and will take his seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e161	There has been a high level of media attention recently on the legal pathological activities of the National Institute for Public Health. I am glad that I have been given the opportunity to explain the matter to Stortinget. The issue is whether the Institute of Public Health has had sufficient legal basis for extracting biological material for use in research related to the forensic autopsy of children. I understand that parents who have lost their child respond to what has been achieved in the media. Research is important to find the reason why children die abruptly and unexpectedly. However, it must not happen in a way that increases the burden on those who have lost the most precious they had. The National Institute for Public Health carries out approximately 950 forensic autopsyes per year. Of these, 20–25 are children aged 0–3 years. I would like to stress that there is no doubt about the basis for this business. Outpatient forensics are carried out at the request of the police and the prosecution authority on the basis of the Criminal Procedures Act. The prosecution instructions specify the cases in which forensic autopsy is to be carried out. The purpose of the autopsy is both to demonstrate the cause of death and to determine the time of death. Survivors shall be alerted, if possible, and given the opportunity to comment before the autopsy begins, but they may not reserve their rights against legal autopsy. The Institute for Public Health states that the autopsy is carried out according to internationally recommended procedures. This implies that all organs, including the heart and brain must be taken out for examination. Most of the organs that are removed are then returned. Organs such as the heart and brain must be pre-treated in special fluids before taking small tissue samples which are further examined to determine cause of death. For the brain this can take up to four weeks, while for the heart it takes three to four days. The organs are not returned to the body because the deceased child is given to the parents immediately after autopsy. The reason why this is done is that the survivors are going to be with the child as long as they want to go to the funeral. Once the tissue samples have been taken, the organs are cremated and then placed in an anonymous memory mode. The Institute of Public Health attaches great importance to this being done in a dignified manner. This is the usual routine, also internationally. In addition to the biological material taken as part of the forensic autopsy procedure, the former Forensic Institute has, now the Institute of Public Health, taken small tissue samples for research purposes since 1984. There is a practice and procedure for this extra withdrawal, but not a research protocol according to the requirements of the Health Research Act. This represents about 5 pst in volume. from the tissue samples taken according to the recommended procedure. The tissue samples are routinely stored in the so-called SIDS biobank for research purposes. The biobank was established in 1984 because Norway in the 1980s had a strong increase in creep deaths, also known as SIDS, Sudden Infant Death Syndrome. The results of the research on the biobank material have contributed to a better understanding of the risk factors for creep death and the mechanisms behind acute and unexpected child deaths. On 16 May, the Public Health Institute stopped the practice of extracting biological material beyond what was necessary to meet the needs of the Public Health Authority. All research on already collected material has also stopped. The reason is that the Institute considers that it is uncertain whether they have sufficient legal basis for extracting biological material for use in research. Regional Committees for Medical and Health Research Ethics, REK, confirmed by letter dated 21 May 20l4 that the general biobank is legal. Furthermore, the REK confirms that all on-going research projects using material from the biobank are approved and that all projects have been granted a waiver of consent. Therefore, REK considers that there is no basis for stopping research, but points to the need for the research biobank to establish procedures to provide information on research use, with the possibility that parents can reserve themselves against later use of tissue samples in research. I aim to get to the bottom of this matter. I am therefore pleased that the State Health Authority has established a supervisory case. On 23 May, the State Health Authority sent a letter to the Public Health Institute asking for details. In particular, the Public Health Institute was asked to explain the measures taken to ensure that the research and management of the research biobanks were in line with the Health Research Act when the Public Health Institute assumed responsibility for the Forensic Institute on 1 June 2011. Furthermore, the Public Health Institute is asked to explain which research projects and research biobanks are currently at the Institute and whether the Institute has on-going research projects where research managers are other than the Institute itself. The Health Authority states that the case is currently in the investigation phase, where the focus is now on obtaining information in the supervisory case. The State Health Authority will establish the necessary dialogue with other relevant actors in the case. Research on biological material secured by investigations raises several issues related to the interface between criminal law and health law. There may be a need to look at the rules on the extraction of material for post-mortem research while the deceased is under the authority of the National Attorney and criminal law. In addition to clarifying the legal basis, it is important to look at the information provided to the survivors in the case of forensic autopsy. When a young child dies suddenly and unexpectedly, the child is placed in front of the forensic autopsy in the children’s care unit for the recording and external examination – as part of the medical documentation. This is a very demanding situation, mainly for parents, but also for health professionals. The pediatrician talks to the parents and informs them about what will happen next. This information is the responsibility of the hospitals. In support of this, information material is deployed in all the country’s children’s departments, the so-called ‘Krybbedemortsperm’ – as guidance and for use in conversation with parents. The information can also be found in the brochure ‘When a Young Child Dies: in Mother’s Life, at Birth or in Their First Year of Life’, published by the National Association of Unexpected Child Deaths. Before the forensic autopsy, the Public Health Institute has no direct contact with the deceased. The material developed by the National Association of Unexpected Child Deaths, in cooperation with the Institute for Public Health, does not provide information on the possibility of reserving against research. Only those parents who agree to the death-place study are informed about the institute's research. In southeastern Norway, this is probably about half of the families. The institute's experience is that the parents, after such conversation, want to contribute to research. The Institute of Public Health has already, in dialogue with the National Association of Unexpected Children's Deaths and the Regional Ethics Committee, started to follow up the recommendation of the REK by letter of 21 May. It is recommended to establish procedures for information and to give parents the opportunity to reserve themselves against research on material from their children. The Ministry has also met with the National Association of Unexpected Child Deaths, and I will listen to them in the further work. We have to do everything we can to prevent young children from dying. It is therefore very important to facilitate research on acute and unexpected deaths among children. At the same time, we need to take into account the parents' need for information and that it may be an additional burden for parents that parts of the dead child's body are used for research. The government is working on a proposal for a new law on transplantation and autopsy, which we aim to promote for the Storting in 2014. On the basis of the information provided, dialogue with different actors and the forthcoming Health Authority report, I want to look at whether the current legislation is clear enough as regards the requirements for information to be provided to the survivors on research on biological material taken in connection with a legal autopsy, and the possibility of refusing such research. I will, of course, also ensure that research is carried out in line with the legislation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e197	The President will now propose, under the second paragraph of Section 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, that a comment round be opened limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and, where appropriate, a final statement by the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e202	I would like to thank the Council of States, which followed the call of a number of representatives of big business to make a presentation on this important matter. As a parent, it is not possible to think anything worse than to lose a child. In addition, when parents get the burden of poor information and the experience of not having been heard about the death, it becomes extra serious. The working party has always been a driver of medical research. The fight against crawling death is an example of an area in which we have benefited greatly from research and where there is a need for more research in the future. This is precisely why it is important to focus on the needs of the parents concerned — the survivors who allow researchers to research on tissue samples from their children, so that other parents do not experience what they have done. It's an amazing gift back to the community of those who have lost the girlfriend they had. Then we must treat everyone with respect. Crawl death occurs without notice, often when you think the child is asleep. This can happen when the child sleeps in his bed, in a baby carriage or in the arms of his or her parents. Crawl death often gives no symptoms or warning signals in advance. Research now shows that in countries where parents are advised to sleep on their backs, the number of cases of crib death is reduced. In Norway, after this work was started, infant mortality is significantly reduced, as the Council of State pointed out. I am concerned that this sad case does not contribute to less research. It is therefore essential that the Minister of Health takes the matter seriously. Parents need to be given good and detailed information. I understand that it's difficult and scary, and that this information is to be given in a phase of life when the girlfriend is gone. But the world has changed. People expect and demand information about what happens to their dead children, and some kind of consent must be obtained. As we have now described the matter, both by the Minister of Health and through the media, it has not been good enough in this case. I believe that we, as the people's ombudsmen and women in this room, have a responsibility to say clearly that it is not up to public officials or women to decide what kind of information parents will get in connection with research on tissue samples from their dead children. Nor am I fully assured that there appear to be many in the regional committees for research ethics and other responsible persons who have known about this practice for many years. It should have called some bells earlier. I understand that this has not been done on the grounds of exasperation, and I understand that no harm has been done to anyone. But I believe it is important that we now look at how we can take care of the parents who experience that they have been exposed to something they did not know about, or do not like. Regardless of who turns out to be responsible, I am concerned that the Minister of Health is doing something actively to the survivors. I have no answer to what it should be, there may be different needs in this case. But medical research is, literally, vital, and research depends on trust. Then we also depend on this case being cleared up. That is exactly why I am pleased that the Minister of Health has come to Stortinget with this statement. I assume that he will come back to Stortinget if lawmakers or other, more practical, things have to be decided in Stortinget. Then, of course, Stortinget will set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e219	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for a neat and good orientation on research in young children affected by unexpected deaths. Of course, autopsy is very important to find the reason when children die abruptly and unexpectedly. It is important for parents to know more about the cause of the death. At the same time, it is important that further research on causes of death does not take place in a way that increases the burden on those who have lost a child. The debate on tissue research after the unexpected death of children has shown that clear and precise legislation is important, where parents should be given good information about research and where the research is based on parental consent. Research on creepy death is important. We have Norwegian researchers who have devoted much of their lives to breaking the cricket death puzzle. It is positive that the number of deaths has fallen considerably since the 1980s. The research has just given us more information about reasons and has given us the opportunity to guide newly-baked parents better. I even had a child at the end of the 1980s, when magic was recommended for newborns. My next child, born in 1995, was given a body in the maternity ward with the inscription "this side up" on his stomach. The advice of parents that the children should sleep on their back or side came as a result of research and is probably one of the reasons why the number of cases of crawling death has been reduced. Last week’s newspaper reports gave, in our opinion, a somewhat misleading impression of how the research was – and will be – carried out. It is difficult to imagine that the angle in these reports may have been a burden on parents who have already suffered severe losses, both in the near past and back to the 1980s. We therefore think it useful that the Institute of Public Health was clear and open about how this research is done, that it is not carried out in whole organs, but that small tissue fragments are held back in the research bank and frozen for research purposes. Then the question of the Institute of Public Health and the former Institute of Forensics has moved in border countries in terms of extracting biological material for research without asking parents for permission. We believe, like the representative Micaelsen, that it is important to establish rules for this, and we are pleased that the Council of State will take an explicit look at this issue during the drafting of new law on transplantation and autopsy. We are also pleased that, according to the Council of State report, the State Health Authority has asked the Public Health Institute to explain what measures were taken to ensure that the research and management of the research biobanks were in line with the Health Research Act when the Public Health Institute took over the business. It is particularly important for research to follow the research ethical guidelines and legislation and for informed consent to be an important part of this. If we lose confidence in research, we may also experience a loss of confidence in the results of research. The most important thing we can do for future research is to close any gaps in the law. We believe that parents' ability to oppose post-mortem research and that parents get good information about what biological research actually involves when they experience the loss of a child abruptly and unexpectedly is important. It may be difficult to address such difficult questions in a vulnerable situation, but it is nevertheless wrong for others to make the choice for the relatives. Unfortunately, we're not there to solve the mystery of creep death, although a lot has changed and the numbers have been reduced. This means that the skilled Norwegian researchers at the Swedish Institute of Public Health need a piece of legislation to enable the important work to be done in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e242	First of all, I will give tribute to the Council of State, not only in connection with today's presentation, but also to what has been done in the period between the discovery of this activity related to this research and until this presentation. I guess this is the example of how important information is, that you're actually being informed about what's going on. Now that we've been exposed through the media to a practice that's been going on for decades, which has been a bit like that in the border country between what's legally sound and permissible, and the practice that's actually taken place, it's very clear that the job that's been done and that's been done for a few years now, looking at the legislation relating to research and the debate related to giving consent, being able to reserve itself against some of these things, is very important. Although, at least in the past, one might have wanted to protect parents from having to make some of those decisions, I think it has at least been shown in recent years that just being able to make such a decision, just being able to do it and helping to make research happen, that we should be able to take the steps forward, so that others may not experience the tragedy of parents who have lost a child, actually feel in that situation that you actually want to be with and contribute to others not to experience it – yes, then this is exactly the point of intersection between what we want to know and what we need to know, is very important. I hope that this work is intensified. I think it was right to stop this now, until you found out what's at stake here. I am absolutely convinced that all of those who have been doing research in this field have had one thing in mind, just to be able to move on, to be able to participate and contribute, among other things. to solve the riddle associated with creepy death. But we have to be careful to go beyond these limits. Parents must be allowed to participate and contribute, participate and make these decisions, and then it is important that this legislation is in place. We already have a debate on both the health register and the state council's statement on what can be expected in the future related to transplantation, the surrender of equals. These things are becoming important in the future, and there's one thing I'm absolutely convinced of: Parents, patients and the relatives are actually able to share in making these decisions, to be able to make these decisions, and the worst thing that can happen is that you're later made aware that things you don't want have happened, precisely because you haven't got information. That's the worst thing about this case, and that's what we have to prevent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e251	I would also like to thank you for your distribution. This is a serious matter that touches on something fundamental in us when we later learn that our dead have been used for research purposes without the relatives knowing it. In the media it has been turned up through newspaper lookups, and I also want to point out that in these headlines there are several aspects mixed together. Firstly, an autopsy of dead children, which may even be buried without individual organs, and researching samples from dead children without parental consent. I think it is good that the Council of State made this clear in its statement, that we need to distinguish between the forensic practitioners who are obsessive and work for the judiciary, and researchers who are working for increased knowledge. It is true in Norway that the Stortinget has decided that when children under the age of 18 die suddenly and unexpectedly, the police will investigate even if there is no suspicion of criminal offences. The police order autopsy from the forensic surgeons. Parents can then not refuse or reserve themselves against autopsy, and we then get examined organs, so that we can get answers, understand, learn to prevent and in some cases punish. Autopsy is independent of research project, but autopsy is a possibility for researchers to take samples. The strong criticism in this matter is not that research has taken place, but that parents and relatives are not asked. What's stimulating is that this hasn't happened in hiding. It's happened up in the academy. It has, at least 30 years ago, also happened in understanding with representatives of the relatives. But in 30 years things have changed, fortunately. This practice is not understood in society today. It's not accepted. We have better laws and rights to consent from patients and relatives to medical research, we have greater openness about autopsy and research. That's why it's quite right that the Public Health Institute has now stopped the research, it's quite right that we get a supervisory case, and it's right that the Council of State has intervened as he has. What is needed is that we are clarified in the law that relatives should have the ability to consent or to reserve, because the research depends entirely on solid and good ethics and on having confidence in the population. I think – I have also read it in various articles – that parents who have experienced losing their child want to know and want to contribute to this not happening again, and that they may not oppose research, but they do not accept that it happens without knowing about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e260	I would like to thank the Council of State for the statement we have received here, and also the handling of the matter so far. It is a demanding balance – the border between respect and vulnerability in a difficult situation for individuals on the one hand, and the purpose of the community on the other, as we stand here in some form of conflict between them. I want to look forward. When the Council of State says that he wants to draw up a new bill on transplant and autopsy law, it becomes an important review where we have opportunities to regulate this in a better way than today. At the same time, I would like to point out that practical action here is important – to create the opportunity to organise these activities as well as to contribute to the information work to be done to enable parents to make the right decision in a good way. I would rather talk about active consent than a right of reservation, because the active consent is important in order to create the trust in both the judiciary and the health service that is absolutely necessary. In the new legislative proposal, it is important to point out that this concerns both cells, tissues and organs and that cells and tissues are also used for research purposes. Then I hope that in the future we will not have a new debate about reflecting the transplant law, so that we will be the property of the state when we die. Active consent is important. It turns out that in Norway we say yes when we are asked to contribute for good purposes. 80 pst. of the relatives or individuals agree to donate organs. It's very likely that there will be corresponding numbers in the cases we're talking about here. Just as there are nurses today who are going to do the job of talking to the relatives, they also have to have the capacity to do so here. One has to put in place information procedures and competences among the nurses so that they can do this job. I look forward to a good work on the law and an important discussion in the future related to this, and that we are getting a practice in this area that is similar to what is already being done in a very good way in terms of transplanting and donating organs in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e275	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a good and thorough presentation and for a similar answer to the question I sent to the Council of State on 22 May. I think it seems that the Minister of Health has taken this in a good way. We can hardly imagine a greater tragedy than losing a little child. That's why the way society interacts with the relatives, which is important – that as a society we meet the relatives in a way that doesn't exacerbate the pain. And the media coverage of this case suggests that the handling here has intensified the pain of some of the parents. That is, in my view, a crucial reason why the government and the Storting must act, to make sure that this is not something that repeats itself. We are faced with two important societal considerations, which all speakers here have underlined. One is the incredibly important research that is ongoing — and, fortunately, has been going on for a long time in Norway — to prevent unexpected child deaths. And I want to stress that the efforts of a number of Norwegian researchers in that field are deserving and important. These are people who are burning for extremely important medical research. I have the greatest respect for the scientists. Nevertheless, the consideration of the relatives — the consideration that we as a society and that our health care services do not intensify the pain of a terrible situation for parents — is absolutely crucial. When that happens, we have to make sure that we put in place the measures that can make it not repeat itself. I believe that it is information and consent that are the key words. As many people have experienced, experience is that if there are anyone who wants to contribute to research more on unexpected child death, it's the parents themselves. If what the experience shows is that relatives of people who go away, or people who get seriously ill, have a strong desire to help others not experience the same thing. Therefore, I do not believe that neither information nor consent will make it significantly more difficult to investigate the causes of unexpected child deaths or early deaths, but I am absolutely sure that it will lead to a clearer framework around that research. Therefore, when the Council of State determines that the Health Research Act is not complied with here, it is a serious issue. I'm recording that the Public Health Institute has stopped the business until the legality is clarified, and that's good. But I would like to stress, and I would like to hear the Council of State confirm, that this must be a political issue – not just a balance to today's legislation, but a political discussion about what kind of legislation we want. That's why I'm glad the Council of State has signaled that he will look at it in the law work that is now taking place related to transplantation and autopsy. I would also, like the representative from the Left, stress that there is a difference between active consent and reservation. I want to encourage the Council of States to assume that there is active consent we're here to base on. I expect that the Council of State – not only in its work on the law, but also in direct dialogue with the Institute of Public Health – will ensure that practices change regardless of what kind of legal assessments have now been made, because it seems as an overall political assessment here is that the practice needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e292	I would also like to thank you for the statement we received from the Minister of Health. Losing your child is a cruel experience. Not least in case of creepy death, which many people have been involved in, because it is so unexpected and we have few or no explanations in such a situation. All such deaths are police cases and the child is to be obsessed. Here the parents do not have the opportunity to say no. This is to exclude other causes of death. In these kinds of autopsy, the heart and brain must be removed and examined. Throughout the 1980s, we had a large number of deaths in Norway, and it was important to start research in this area. Norway received an internationally recognised research environment. The number of deaths with this diagnosis has been reduced, but researchers are still working on solving the mystery. Once you have preserved tissue samples, it is in order to be able to see similarities and inequalities in the future when you gain new knowledge in this area. All parents are busy getting answers to their why. That's why it's also very important that this research comes into forms that are regulated, and that parents get to know what's going to happen and happen to their dead children. This must be told with caution, gentleness and not least wisdom. The vast majority of parents who have lost their children will find out why, and with a good explanation, we believe that most will consent to their deceased children being examined. It is we who regulate the law that should ensure that we have a law that can regulate all kinds of research. It should therefore be possible, we think, to facilitate a good and dignified treatment of these parents, while having a framework that enables our researchers to solve more and more health puzzles in this very important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e305	I would like to thank you for the feedback and reflections from Stortinget on this difficult matter. I feel that most, like me, have been most concerned with the question of information for the survivors. And the reactions that have occurred in the media after the forensic autopsy and research on dead children have revealed a clear need for better routines, for information – not only on research, but also on the ordinary autopsy of children and what happens to the organs in retrospect. Last week the Ministry of Health and Welfare met with the National Association of Unexpected Child Death. Their experiences and recordings will be important in the further work. The Institute of Public Health has also had dialogue with the National Association of Unexpected Child Deaths and the Regional Committees to find solutions to how to better inform about research and when the survivors should receive this information. I also want to make sure that the information procedures of the country's children's departments are looked at more closely. I would also like to underline differences in the question of reservation between what is related to autopsy legislation, which comes to the Great Britain for the autumn, and what is going on in research. I also very much agree with many of the representatives who have been up and said that this is an area where people's expectations and people's need for information have changed over the 30 years that have passed. I will also end by quoting a member of the National Association of Unexpected Child Death, who now says: The hardest thing to say is the most important thing for us to hear. – I think that is quite indicative of the need for information in the difficult situation these parents are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e317	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Health on research into unexpected deaths in young children be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e333	I am sorry that I asked for the word manually – it should not be repeated too often! I think that in most countries a case like the one we're about to deal with would have led to the hall being considerably more filled up than that case is here. This shows that the Norwegian state finances are in very good order. This is the financial statements of the State for 2013, which have also been dealt with to the extent in National Audit Office Document 1 and which have been the subject of a robust review within the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I am not going to keep the word around this matter for a long time, but just note that the profits for 2013 amounted to a total of 359,8 billion. kr. It provides a solid basis for also devoting money to the State pension fund, which in turn forms the basis for the welfare of future generations. With that, I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e344	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e371	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of five lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e382	The Svein Fleet representative has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes – no, it is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e385	Nothing more, President, because then I don't have far enough script! The annual notification on the management of the State pension fund abroad is an important notification. It's about the status of managing our common savings. That is why I am pleased that the Committee is united that the purpose and background of the investment strategy in the SPU is to support government saving for financing the expenses of the population, as well as to support long-term considerations in the use of revenue from the state's petroleum activities, which we meet at every budget in this house. It is also a significant strength that the Committee is united that the objective of investments over time is to achieve the highest possible return on capital with a moderate risk and that a framework is set out by the Ministry on how investments can be made through a reference index in order to limit risks. As it appears, the fund will continue its growth, and the need for large withdrawals will not be present. This means that the Fund has a high level of risk-bearing capacity and can maintain investment strategy over time. It is also, then, a joint committee that stresses that the SPU should follow a responsible investment practice, which promotes good corporate governance in the companies in which it is invested, which promotes transparency and which takes into account environmental and social conditions. The ethical guidelines laid down and associated ethical criteria for excluding companies are criteria that have accumulated, and continue to accumulate, major political outreach and that are also in line with recognised international standards. This introduction is the higher vault of the State pension fund's foreign administration, which is also very much agreed through this communication, and it is absolutely central to our common savings assets. Changes and alternatives in the management model have continued to be a topic of discussion in recent years. For example, in 2009, the Communication discussed adjustments to further develop the organisation of the Bank of Norway in line with international practice. The fund is growing all the time. Administrative tasks are growing in line with this, and are constantly setting new requirements for the management of the business and of the central bank. For this reason, a Joint Committee has also concluded this time that the government must continuously assess the necessary changes to the governance structures. The financial results were good in 2013. Of course, they vary slightly over time. I'm not going to go into the numbers. Although the management objective is the highest rate of return to moderate risk, in order to increase the level of well-being from the Fund, management shall take place in combination with emphasising transparency and ethical awareness through good investment practices, including: with a deliberate organisation of how to deal with exclusion from the fund and the sale of shares, which does not represent sustainable business models. The investment portfolio changes over time. The management of property is new, it is resource-intensive and requires more active management, including: For this reason, it is also emphasised by the majority that it is the responsibility of the Bank of Norway to adapt the organisation to the constant changes. The strategy for responsible investment has been a central theme in the examination of this Communication. Initially, I would like to stress that it is the representation of the Bank of Norway that oversees and controls the Bank's operations on behalf of the Stortinget, including the work on responsible investment practices. It has been a primary objective of the government through this Communication to strengthen the work of responsible investment practices. The Strategy Council was asked by the previous government in 2013 to assess how the overall resources and competences of the Ministry, the Ethics Council and the Bank of Norway could best be organised in order to strengthen future responsible investment practices. Proposals for operational and institutional changes were requested. This is an objective which the Stoltenberg II government already set out in its evaluation in 2009, namely increasing interaction between ownership and excluding companies. However, the active substances have been scattered, so that the intentions of 2009 have only partially been implemented. However, there is reason to stress that regardless of organisation, the criteria for which companies are excluded for ethical reasons will be set by political authorities – criteria which are also set out in this Communication to continue and on which there is agreement. When the extension mechanism is transferred through this suspension from the Ministry of Finance to the Bank of Norway, the majority also consider that it would be a reasonable solution for the Ethics Council to be maintained, but that the Council is appointed by the Ministry of Finance after the appointment of the Bank of Norway. In addition, the majority believe that recommendations from the Council should be sent to the Bank of Norway, which decides whether to exclude companies in the portfolio. And extraction decisions shall be justified on the basis of the objective criteria in the ethical guidelines. The delegation of the exclusion decision to the Bank of Norway is justified by the fact that the decisions should be clearly perceived as such, namely ethical grounds for responsible investment practices. When the extraction mechanism is moved, it is important that the recommendations of the Strategy Council on clearer lines of responsibility and better communication between the Ethics Council and the Bank of Norway are followed up and improved. This gives you the best possible chain of instruments, and you are perceived outwardly as unique. A clearer line of responsibility is also established by Norway’s Bank appointing members to the Ethics Council and ensuring a strong professional composition of the Council. The majority of the Committee also considers that this will contribute to a clearer picture of who has the ultimate and full responsibility for decisions, that it is in line with a total government, and that there are no underlying foreign or industrial policy interests. And it is underlined by the majority in the vote that precisely the international perception of SPU in terms of responsible investment practices is crucial for the reputation of the fund internationally. The organisation and the tools chain are then very important, and I believe that this has now been well facilitated by this setting. This does not prevent an ongoing evaluation of the annual notifications on the functioning of the changes in the organisation. The current reference index of the fund has moderate risk as a measure. Overweighting of market segments or countries at the expense of others could restrict the management of the bank and not least limit its return. However, the government estimates that the investment in renewable energy will be increased by increasing the environmental investment mandates by up to 30 to 50 billion. kr but with the same return and risk requirements as the other investments. This type of investment is also suitable for active management. Therefore, the government's work on assessing the effects on returns and risks on precisely this type of investment is important to continue. The majority also emphasises that the State pension fund abroad must not be or become an instrument for risky investment in poorly developed countries. Investments in this type of country can be made more efficiently through other corporate structures, such as Norfund, and through allocations of the ordinary budgets, as the government has also announced that it will contribute. Climate risk has for a long time been an element of the management of the fund. Expected documents from the bank to the companies concerned have been followed up by audits in 2012. Climate change and impacts on global capital markets and on risks, especially for the SPU portfolio, were also a theme of the establishment of the Ethics Guidelines in 2004 and the evaluation in 2009 which looked in particular at the long-term impact on global capital markets. So far, greenhouse gas emissions have not been an independent criterion for exclusion in accordance with the ethical guidelines, nor in the broad evaluation in 2009. However, the size has unanimously asked for the creation of an expert group to assess whether the exclusion of coal and petroleum companies is a more effective strategy than ownership exercise to address these types of issues and contribute to future changes. The group is already set up and will provide advice on criteria, so that this will be part of the basis for the next major SPU notification in spring 2015. And it's typical of these messages that come every year, that they take small steps through a maximum consensus in the Biggest on changes, because this is so important. This is our common savings deposit box. I use the opportunity here towards the end of the post to thank for the cooperation and connection of different parties on different parts of the message. I believe that there is an agreement that has helped us to take steps this time as well to get as much agreement as possible on the organisation of the management and attention to responsible future investment practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e419	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for his cooperation in the matter, for this debate could have looked so profoundly different. Until a few weeks ago, it seemed that the government parties stood firm on their proposal to drop the Ethics Council. We were in danger of losing the independence, openness and professional weight that the Ethics Council has stood for. What has become the international gold standard in responsible investment practices would be replaced by a vaguely described expert selection. Fortunately, it didn't. I am pleased that the talks between the Workers' Party and the government parties led. The broad lines of the management of the pension fund should be characterised by broad consensus. Therefore, the Right Party and the Advance Party must be praised for having listened and for turning in time. I am pleased that we are now – 10 years after the Stortinget set up the Ethics Council – today unanimously goes in to keep it. It also helped to make civil society so clear. In the hearing, in letters of consultation and in numerous meetings, all the organisations have promoted the work of the Ethics Council as solid and thorough, and almost all of us have called on us not to put it down. The fact that the Ethics Council is not shut down today is therefore a victory like many parts. The work of the Ethics Council is constantly being given a good boost. Therefore, the organisation of the Ethics Council – as it is today – is in place: the Ethics Council shall have the same mandate, it shall continue to have its own and independent address, it shall continue to be financed by the Ministry of Finance and shall continue to be appointed by the Ministry of Finance. The challenges pointed to by the Strategy Council have been in the structure and communication with NBIM. The Labour Party therefore expects the extension decision to be moved to the Bank of Norway. I think this will strengthen the whole process of ethics, ownership and responsible investment. This model makes the bank more responsible and makes it easier to use the full range of instruments. At the same time, Stortinget shall follow developments closely. As I said, the change is being made to strengthen the work on ethics, ownership and responsible investment. We therefore look forward to the annual reports on Stortinget and will follow developments in this area in the coming years in particular. In addition to the joy that the Ethics Council was not closed, I am actually a little disappointed. There are several reasons for this. The working party promoted a proposal to withdraw the fund from coal companies before Christmas. For a long time it looked like we had a majority for this. We must now note that this proposal does not have a majority today. Another thing is played out to the Prime Minister at the government's climate seminar in ours, that a new proposal for renewables was right around the corner. The environmental organisations cheered. I thought it seemed exciting. Then the message came, and the disappointment was great when it was about a continuation of the environmental mandates that you reduced in 2009. Misunderstand me correctly; we support the extension of environmental mandates, but an opening to increase the mandate from today's 32 billion. NOK 30-50 billion. kr is hardly a climate lift. But I'm probably most disappointed in what seems to be a lost year. There will be a lost year in coal, because we could already take the first step today and withdraw the fund from coal mining companies, which the Workers' Party proposes. Then we could let the expert group look more closely at the more complicated companies and not least investigate for a decision in a year's time. We don't get a decision today, but I hope there's a majority in Stortinget when the expert group's conclusions are available in a year's time. It will also be a lost year on direct investment in renewables. Because there seems to be a broad consensus in the Storting to consider how the pension fund can increase its direct investment in renewable energy. The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left said in the election campaign that they wanted a new course and more renewable investments. The right at his national meeting just made a similar decision. The Council of State has also expressed its support for this proposal. But it is only SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party that are voting for this today. I believe that our proposal addresses an important element. If the pension fund increases its investment universe, this is not done in one day. The thorough processes that have constantly characterized the step-by-step development of the Fund must be continued. We propose that the mandate of the expert group be extended so that the Stortinget can obtain an assessment of direct investment in renewable energy. The expert group is broadly composed, and I think it has good competence to look at several issues. For the Workers' Party, it is important to work on two fronts: we need to have good debates on which companies the fund should not be in, and we need to have good debates on which companies it should be in. I would therefore urge the Council of State to consider extending the mandate to the expert group. Much has happened through Storting's handling of this message, and I believe that it will be a strength for the work on this also reflected in the mandate of the expert group. Finally, I would also like to comment on the comments on the supervisory and control function. It is a growing fund and, at the same time, it is emerging as a new need for supervisory and control mechanisms. In the future, corruption and government will have to consider how we can strengthen this work. I look forward to an important work on these matters in the coming year. In any case, it will be an exciting year for us to meet, and I look forward to working on the further development of the management of the fund for next year's notice. I will end by including the Workers' Party's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e442	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e445	The case-speaker has been up and running on this matter in an all-important way, and I agree with what has been said from him. It's – as you know – made a little change when it comes to the Ethics Council. It's a change with which the Progress Party is completely comfortable. We believe that the solution that is chosen is also a good solution, even though we were initially some of the first. We have put in place a good solution, and I think it has been a good and constructive collaboration with the Labour Party on the choice of solution when it comes to the Ethics Council. The state pension fund abroad, also called the oil fund, has had a fantastic development in recent years — it has passed 5,000 billion. kr. That's more than 1 million. kr per capita in the country. Growth has come on the basis of two things: of course, it is an annual injection of funds, which in the last few years have been around. 1 billion. kr per day, in addition, has had a significant return, especially on axles, and especially in recent times. This story has shown how important it is to have ice in our stomachs when we get a fall in stock, and when we get turbulence in the financial markets. The last time during the financial crisis looked worse, but one stood by the mandate one had, one stood firm on the lines one had. Of course it did, that the loss quickly came into place and well saw it. Now there is nothing to suggest that we are facing a rapid international financial turmoil, but financial unrest is never easy to see. At least what we know over a long period of time is that, in particular, the stock prices go up and down. Of course, then, it is important that we politicians keep the arm's length distance from the management of the oil fund, and that we stick to the strategies chosen. It also means that the larger the oil fund, the larger the potential temporary losses will be. When we have an oil fund of over 5,000 billion. kr – which grows and is more than 1 million. kr per capita – and with a share-crack at the same time as a possible fall in the bonds, we imagine that both VG and other media can have many war headlines that may not always be as easy to deal with for a politician. Then, of course – as I said – it is important that we politicians keep the arm's length distance from the management of the oil fund, and that we stick to the strategies laid down. It is now also proposed that the management mandate be narrowed, that investment be managed in some areas and that investment be kept out in other areas. There is no secret that the Progress Party is skeptical about going into the way to override which one should invest more in, and excludes too much of what one should not invest in. If one goes along with such political governance, it becomes even more necessary for the managers of the oil fund to achieve good returns over time. It should be the most important thing, that one thing here is to create a good and sustainable return within acceptable risk. Then, of course, there are some areas you shouldn't and should invest in, but exactly that governance we think in the Progress Party that we have to keep to a minimum.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e467	It is a solid year that the Pension Fund, both domestically and abroad, has left behind. On our side, we will praise those who have actively contributed to it. Briefly about the Social Security Fund first: it is a good result – a little below the index against which it is measured, but just as fully a very solid result. We look forward to what may appear to be on the steps of the People's Security Fund, which is to expand the asset class. We look forward to the government assessing and coming back to us. Infrastructure may, for example: be an area. So to the state pension fund abroad: I join the case rapporteur, Svein Flätten. I thank you for your cooperation, and I can generally agree with what he said, which is the unanimous position of the Committee. Then I go over to what it's been a disagreement about. As far as the Ethics Council is concerned, we are pleased with the solution that is now getting a solid majority behind it, namely that the Ethics Council consists of an independent institution, but that the stretch itself is now being added to the Bank of Norway. Then we have to say that we're going to follow closely how that cooperative is going to work. There is no doubt that in the last three to four years there have been too many cases that have been in the government apparatus for too long due to the construction we have had so far. It's been unfortunate, not least over time. We are also ready to see that speed increases somewhat when you go from a recommendation to a decision. So to our own proposals, we would have thought that we would have a majority, I must say, to get a mandate for investment in poor countries. It was the governing parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left agreed on before the elections. It was even in the Sundvolden Declaration, but it's abandoned. Now it's Norfund who's going to deal with that work. We're maintaining our proposal, we're going to see what's going on in the budget. I expect the Council of State to understand that we are going to follow closely how assistance is used into that work, and how percentages, if any, are calculated. But we'll get back to that. As far as the environmental component is concerned, I understand that our proposal does not get a majority – that is to say to set up an investment programme to invest in enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors. It surprises me a little bit, it also doesn't get a majority. But now leave it. I think the government and those who manage this should notice that there is a majority for another pressure on environmental investment. And when it's about a lost year, you can ask who has made sure that year is lost. I think we have a little different opinions about that. But I'm going to think that there's a few investments in coal companies right now, if you have a certain prediction of how the majority of people in this room feel about it. Then I've given that indication. Of course, I'm taking up our suggestions. In conclusion, I would also like to refer to the following, as a unanimous committee says something about it, and I am addressing the Council of State's response to the challenge posed by the Committee. I quote from the comments: ‘The Committee considers that the government considers the need to come back to the Storting on the further development of the governance and control structure in the light of the Bank’s ever-changing tasks’. It is also a clear message from the Committee that we want this to be a priority task the government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e491	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e494	To the harvest I will most likely reap a work that my great-grandfather did when he planted the forest. Thanks to his long-term investment strategy then and not consuming that capital, I can reap values now this autumn. After that, I'm going to bury the area, so that my great-grandchildren – if I have great-grandchildren – may be able to reap it again. There is a long-term perspective in practice. What we're discussing here is the common national heritage. We were so lucky to have a national heritage through oil. We have made decisions that have made it possible for us to manage it in a good way, and we are now turning that legacy into money. Then, hopefully, our great-grandchildren and grandchildren will enjoy that fund – and we also enjoy those resources already. So the choices we're making now are what our descendants will enjoy, hopefully. So the question is, how are we going to manage such a fund? The entire Committee agrees that there should be a moderate risk. We're spreading it over shares, bonds and property, and we're constantly having discussions about different investment objects. Whether we're going to have an active administration or a passive administration is a big debate. What is the cost of active management versus running clean index positions? And just like for me, as the numbers look very positive for when I'm going to chop for the autumn, there's a connection with the dollar rate when the oil fund looks much larger. One of the reasons why it looks much bigger this year than last year is because the dollar price has fallen. So we don't have to be fooled too much, because in RNB we see the opposite, that we get higher bills because the dollar price has gone down. So it looks more positive than it actually is. According to RNB, in 2016 the oil fund will have a value of 6 281 billion. kr – a huge global fund. Sitting and having the responsibility that we have also entails a very great ethical responsibility. That's why I and the Center Party are so happy that there's a total big deal that – in doubt in different parties – has come to the conclusion that you want to continue the Ethics Council and the work that came after the Graver Committee in 2004. In the discussion in 2004, there was also a discussion about whether the Ethics Council should be given its own decision-making powers to withdraw the investments. There's different assessments here in the hall. We in the Center Party have thought that we should strengthen the Ethics Council further. There are five members and eight annual works to look after the world's largest fund, which is under the governance we have. We are proposing today that we should increase the number of employees in the Ethics Council and, through it, have an even greater chance of entering different companies, and also ask the government to exercise its own decision-making powers and not to transfer it to the Bank of Norway. The Bank of Norway has a variety of tasks, and we have been afraid that the ethical work will not be the top priority, because they have so many other considerations to take into account. But the mandate of the Ethics Council is solely to follow the ethical guidelines that we have drawn. That would be strictly political, whether in the Bank of Norway or in the Council of Ethics, and we think it would have been the wisest choice. In addition to being able to leave a lot of capital to our descendants, from which they can reap, I believe that some of the positive work that we can do is if we can say that that capital has been managed in the most ethical way possible. Our assessment is that then the Ethics Council should have been further strengthened. But luckily, it's going on, and then we're going to have new discussions in later rounds. I'm addressing the suggestions that the Senter Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e512	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e515	This year’s debate on the governance of the SPU has focused little on the actual administration in 2013, but more on looking ahead. The recommendations of the Strategy Council have been premiscuous. In the view of the Left, very much of the Strategy Council proposed makes sense: greater openness, stronger reporting, fairer business practices, increased contributions to well-functioning capital markets and fair pricing of all relevant costs. It has also been suggested that we have not supported, mainly the recommendation to integrate the Ethics Council in Norway Bank. It is easy to agree with the intentions of the Strategy Council that it is an objective to make the Ethics Council superfluous through a thorough ethics work in NBIM prior to investment. We're not quite there yet. That is why we in the Left are pleased that this proposal is being scrapped today. We are also pleased that the scheme to provide public foundations for companies to be excluded from the fund is being continued. The left is part of the plurality that today argues that the Ethics Council is appointed by the Ministry of Finance after the appointment of Noregs Bank, and that Norway Bank is given the power to decide whether to exclude companies. As the representative Syversen pointed out, we will also follow that development closely in these areas, and we are open to make adjustments if it turns out that the work on ethics is being weighed down as a result of the changes. We in Left Meiner, like the Christian People's Party and SV, that there is reason to look at the chosen organisation of the SPU, and whether the Stortinge has a supervisory function that ensures parliamentary control of NBIM's operations with sufficient competence and transparency. It's a debate I think we have to take in the coming year. When it applies to the administration of the SPU for 2013, there is a particular case that also illustrates a little bit of this point that we in the Left have been occupied by: 1.8 billion. kr invested in the tax havens Delta Topco, which own the rights to Formula 1 – the investment made in May 2012 under the aegis of quick listing. There was never any of the listing, but still its SPU as owner in Delta Topco, apparently contrary to the investment mandate of SPU § 3-6(c), where the rule is that the board of the company ‘has expressed an intention to apply for trading on a regulated and recognised market place’. The investment raises several questions related to openness and ethics. There is still one question to be answered: Why did the SPU not sell out again from the company when it was clear that it was still not listed on the stock exchange? The hearings of the financial committee did not provide any concrete answers. Written questions from the Signer of the Minister of Finance did not provide direct answers. It makes me unnecessarily concerned as to whether something that was not in line with the direction of the Stortinget has taken place here. For all I know, trouble is profoundly unfair. Similarly, I find it a little satisfying that Stortinget cannot get an answer to such a simple question. I therefore come with a last call to the Minister of Finance to clarify this now: Why did the SPU not sell out, and is it the view of the Minister of Finance that the investment, when it turned out that there was no stock exchange listing, is in line with the investment mandate of the SPU? If I should finally allow myself to look a little ahead, the advice to the left is that we are in favour of lowering the yield target, and therefore the rule of action, to 3 pst. There are two major advantages: a more responsible use of domestic oil money and an easier way for SPU to invest in emerging new markets, where returns are more uncertain. Should it be opened in the future for investments in unlisted axles, something we in the Left p.m. is sceptical, testing should be carried out for the first time together with the new investment mandate for new renewable energy. To the extent that SPU will be able to invest in infrastructure in the future, it should be in the form of long-term investments in green infrastructure. For the left, it is obvious that the goal of returns must not be followed by human rights or the environment. We therefore look forward to the debate the coming year on the financial and climate policy risks involved in the fact that the oil fund is currently heavily invested in oil and coal companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e539	Why are we running politics? What is the most important thing about our political work? We are blessed with a democracy that works well in very many ways – a free society, a free debate, a civil society that premises, a critical press. We have taken national ownership of huge natural resources, which enable us to benefit and create a good society. We have thousands of billions of dollars in wealth around the world. We have all the prerequisites for getting something really big. So why are we doing politics? I'm working on politics because from high school on, I was thinking about the importance of economic differences -- how much it had to say that someone in the schoolyard had so little, while others had so much, how much it had to say for their possibilities later in life, even in egalitarian Norway, how much it had to say for how one was looking at, how children met each other. Differences and injustices in differences were what made me politically conscious. It's the most important thing for me in my political work. The world's resources are completely incomprehensiblely distorted, and Norway, which is a completely microscopic part of the world's population, owns 1.3 pst. of all the world's listed values. It's an entirely abnormal proportion of the world's means of production. The rest of the world is dealing with Norway as one of the world's largest and most powerful owners. In such a perspective, there is nothing more complete naive than the belief that the state pension fund abroad is a kind of neutral piggyback that is not perceived politically by the rest of the world. Clearly it is politics, so clearly ownership is politics, so clearly ownership is politics, so clearly the conditions for ownership are politics, and, of course, the moral, ethical and solidarity barriers we set for our ownership are politics! Nevertheless, most Norwegian politicians insist that SPU, no, it has nothing to do with politics. It is this kind of laissezfaire thinking that gives passivity and lack of interest to the field, that gives us passive politicians, politicians who tell us that ethical guidelines, no, it is not possible to have, that tells us that human rights and the rights of indigenous people, no, we must not interfere with the administration, that says that the climate crisis, what does it have to do with our neutral piggy? The government has given this uninterested politician this kind of non-political policy a face. There is no recognition of ethical responsibility in this message. There is no vision of using ownership for anything positive. There are no reflections around the carbon bubble that threaten the world, which is the most unsafe investment of them all, and which threaten the world's economy. There is no willingness to take the responsibility of such a large owner as Norway should take. On the contrary, the most concrete thing in the government's notice is a desire to lay down the Ethics Council. I would like the bulk of the population not to be held hostage by the government's miserable attitude. On the one hand, it is good that Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, goes on to defeat the issue of the future of the Ethics Council, but at the same time there is no reason to move the decision-making authority to the Bank of Norway. - The goat and oatmeal, President, the goat and the oatmeal! I believe that the Workers' Party has been fooled by the government parties to accept a more relaxed ethical administration than before and even less room for political governance with capital than before, and I hope that we will follow this closely up in the future. Why are we running politics? The government is really saying it outright: they're doing politics to weaken the policy. Many of those who are now ministers of the government, I met as Young Right Politicians 10-15 years ago, and then they talked about setting limits to politics. They're doing that now. Also, Siv Jensen has more faith in the market's ability to solve people's problems than people's own ability to solve problems, and her minions here at Stortinget are willing to draw that point to the extreme, for example. to cope with Norway’s loss of funding for the tobacco industry. Unless it's an honest point of view. I work with politics to re-distribute, to be involved and take responsibility for the future of the earth. The problem is it sounds like a cliché. It should have been a minimum measure of decent political function, but it is rejected by the majority of the population as being remote from reality. But anyway, I'm going to plant coal out of the oil fund, I'm going to strengthen employee rights and indigenous rights, I'm going to have ethical guidelines for government bonds, I'm going to invest more in renewable energy, I'm going to invest more in developing countries, and I'm going to strengthen the Ethics Council and keep power over the extraction mechanism outside the bank itself, so ethics sometimes trumps other considerations. And then the big crowd sits there staring and sitting on the wrong side of the story. I want to raise the SV's proposal and hope for a more progressive growth rate next year, when we deal with this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e562	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President would also like to point out that the representative might have to go through his or her choice of words the next time he or she is going to speak in order to be able to express himself or herself in a slightly more parliamentary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e567	On 31 January of this year, the Ministry of Finance decided, inter alia: excluding Israel Africa Investments and Danya Cebus from the State pension fund abroad. Was it a political act? Yes, of course it was a political act. It was a purely politically motivated decision, and it was a decision that had a clear political objective, namely to signal what Norway thought about the participation of companies in residential construction in eastern Jerusalem. Did the Pension Fund make money on that? – Probably not, it was a restriction of the Pension Fund’s freedom of action on a political basis. Now we have an interesting debate on whether we are going to provide new leadership for the State pension fund abroad based on the effect of coal and possibly oil and tar sands etc. on the climate and the combination of the responsibilities of Norway and the oil fund to contribute to that context, and the responsibility of the oil fund – or the Pension Fund – to make a long-term financial assessment of the impact of investing in an energy form that we agree in other contexts in Norway will have increasing constraints associated with it. Norway is already strongly restricting its investment in the Pension Fund by not investing in a number of potentially lucrative activities such as prostitution, arms trafficking, the tobacco industry, trafficking in human beings, etc., without leading to any debate in this Chamber. The debate is therefore about whether we should impose restrictions on what we claim to be a major problem, namely the climate. In last year's debate on the environment, the Green Party promoted two proposals, one in which we asked the government during 2014 to give the State pension fund abroad a mandate to invest up to 5 pst. in renewable energy infrastructure, and one where the Storting asked the Government to change the investment strategy of the SPU to extract it from coal, tar sands and after each other fossil fuel. This was voted down, but the proposal was based on a thorough investigation from heavy, financial environments such as KLP, Storebrand and also Umoe, Scatec and a broad grasp of environmental organisations, the Church, etc., so this is not extracted from the loose air. Later, there has been one depressing thing and one encouraging thing in this debate. The depressing thing is that we still have an active and in-depth strawman debate on the issue of withdrawing the Pension Fund from coal/fossil and investing the Pension Fund more offensively in renewables. And so the strawman debate is linked to claims that doing this is a problem, because it's about using the Pension Fund politically – as if we don't do it all the time. The reason for this strawman debate is, of course, that at the moment we begin to take real decisions to actively use the oil fund, and impose on the oil fund active leadership in relation to climate, we are much more confronted with our own oil policy, our own investments at home and their implications. That is why it is of course also very encouraging that not only has the SV and the Workers' Party not only promoted similar proposals as the Green Party promoted last autumn, we are today also sitting with eleven different proposals relating to different variants of starting to use the Pension Fund politically. It is sad that the Finance Committee has not managed to get its legs better, so that we could get a collection behind some of these proposals that made them feasible, but I look forward to the fact that during the year that is now coming – which is now lost, like the eight previous years – we will have to implement the measures that have until now been considered almost out of date in the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e580	The government's ambition is that the State pension fund should be the world's best managed fund. This means that in all parts of the administration we are moving towards leading practice internationally. The Fund has developed a good reputation for its structure, governance model, transparency and accountability and scores high on international comparisons. Good and long-term management of the State pension fund requires broad opening up and confidence in the way the fund is managed. It is therefore important to regularly assess and submit plans for further development of the management of the Fund. A guideline for work is that changes made to the investment strategy should be based on thorough professional assessments and analyses. Important changes and choices are presented to the Storting. The Committee’s recommendation to the Communication on the State Pension Fund for 2013 shows that there is a broad interest in the Fund. I'm glad. It helps to ensure a solid connection to the way the fund is managed. I am pleased that the Committee's position shows that there is broad support for the governance framework and the main features of today's State pension fund management strategy. The investment strategy has been stoned, and we must continue to do so. Such an approach provides a basis for good and long-term management. The SPU strategy is characterised by: to make risk premiums over time to disseminate investments to exploit the long-term horizon of the fund’s responsible investment practice cost-effectiveness a moderate element of active management a clear governance structure The Fund has an overall financial objective of achieving the highest possible return within a moderate level of risk. In this way, the return from the Fund may help to finance new policy initiatives. At the same time, we are clear that management is subject to ethical constraints. The fund shall not invest in companies which are in the possession of certain types of production and companies may also be excluded where there is an unacceptable risk of the company being involved in, or responsible for, grossly unethical activities. The Bank of Norway takes environmental and social considerations into account in its management. The properties allow for influence. The Bank has also sold itself out of companies based on an assessment that the company’s business model is not sustainable in the long term. This year’s Communication discusses several themes and sets out several concrete actions that follow up the Health Declaration. We are increasing SPU's investment in renewable energy by almost doubling the framework of the environmental investment mandates. We propose that these mandates now normally amount to between 30 and 50 billion. kr, from today's 20-30 bn. kr. We will invest in sustainable businesses and projects in poor countries through ordinary appropriations for other established schemes. That's what the government will come back to in the state budget. Research and development has long been one of the instruments of the strategy for responsible investment in the Fund. During 2014, we aim to launch a work to highlight climate change risks for the future returns of the Fund. In line with the Storting decision, we have established an expert group to assess whether the exclusion of coal and petroleum companies appears to be a more effective strategy than ownership and influence to address climate issues and contribute to changes in time. The Group shall make its recommendation in November. The notification also discusses returns and risks in oil and gas shares. No changes have been made to the reference index. The main instrument to reduce the country’s oil and gas price risk is the relocation of oil and gas wealth on the base into widely dispersed financial investments. We have been evaluated by the Norwegian Bank's management of the SPU and how continued delegation of management tasks can improve the relationship between the fund's expected return and risk. The Communication sets out a comprehensive analysis of the results of management. Furthermore, advice from the Bank of Norway and a group of internationally recognised experts on how to develop the mandate of the Bank in the future are presented. The government will come back to this question and other advice received in the Communication in spring 2015. A clear division of responsibilities and roles between the owner and the administrator is a prerequisite for sound management over time. I have taken note of the Committee's view that the governance and control structure of the Bank of Norway must be developed in line with the tasks of the Bank and be in line with recognised practices and principles. The Communication also deals with the advice of the Strategy Council. In the message we also warn of several changes that were motivated by a desire to strengthen the work on ethics. Among other things, it was suggested that the work on all instruments in the area of responsible investment should be grouped together at the Bank of Norway. The attitude shows that the committee has committed itself, and that's good. The remarks in the vote show, inter alia, that there is a majority in favour of adjusting the division of labour between the Ministry of Finance, Norway’s Bank and the Etikkrådet. The majority of the Committee considers that extraction decisions should be moved to the Bank of Norway, but that the work of investigating and providing advice should continue to lie within the Ethics Council. I will now ask the Bank of Norway for advice in order to ensure that such a model can be implemented from the next turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e633	I would first like to thank the Council of States, which is now supporting an independent ethics council. The agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties ensuring an independent ethics board is important. But for the Workers' Party, it has not only been the Ethics Council that you have been involved in this process. We also believe that today we could take a first step and have been investigated how the fund can increase its direct investments in renewable energy. That proposal therefore votes in favour of the Progress Party and the Right, despite the fact that the Progress Party in the election campaign together with the Christian People's Party and the Left demanded that a share of the Fund be invested in renewable energy, while the Right in its National Meeting recently agreed that a ‘will set up a new mandate for direct investment in renewable energy under the State Pension Fund – Foreign’. To me, there seems to be broad consensus in this area. My question to the Council of State is therefore – in the light of the play that has taken place and the recent decisions of the Right – whether the Council of State has given some thought to how this can be translated into a decision in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e640	First just a few comments about ethics work. The purpose of this Communication is to strengthen the ethics of and around State pension funds abroad. We thought we presented a good model to further strengthen the work. I take note that the bulk of the population will maintain the Ethics Council. I think that is still a good solution, all the time ethics work is an important part of the premises for how the bank manages the funds. So to the proposal to unravel renewables. It's actually an unnecessary proposal, because the government is warning us in the message that we will come back to that question in the message for next year. We have already assessed the renewable mandate in this year's report, and we announce that we will investigate further, including. how we can do that in view of the active management, quite simply. We have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e647	Let me continue with renewable energy. It is true that the Council of State refers to increasing the scope of the communication we are now discussing. The Council of State further indicates that the possibilities, if any, of continuing in this direction will be explored. My question is political. Does the Council of State and the Government have a policy objective of increasing investment in renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e654	After all, the government has done so through this communication, and we have announced that we will investigate further how we can expand the framework for renewable investment. But at the same time, we have raised the dilemma that there are also consequences for the extension of the active management framework, and I have not registered that the Stortinget has wanted a more extensive use of active management through the treatment of the year's notification. These are the questions we need to ask ourselves in order to find out how we should do it in an appropriate way within the overall framework for the management of the SPU, and which I also register is shared by a broad majority, namely that the fund should be a financial investor. I'm glad that there's a broad majority holding on, because at the moment we start to base other governance criteria, this is no longer a fund that has the primary objective of having a long-term management of people's pension money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e660	The majority of the population have clearly expressed their wish to continue with the Ethics Council when dealing with this notification. It finally became unanimous. Not to go that comparison too far, but here at Stortinget, I think there are more people working on travel bills for the representatives of that department than they are working in the Ethics Council – eight pieces. Could the Minister of Finance confirm that she sees that the bulk of the population want to maintain the Ethics Council, and that she sees that there may be arguments to strengthen their capacity as the fund grows?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e665	The whole purpose of following up the recommendations of the Strategy Council was to strengthen the work of ethics, responsible investment and the long-term sustainability of the Fund’s management. I believe that the government followed up in a good way, and I believe that Stortinget has found a good solution to this problem by maintaining the Ethics Council. We're not measuring our success against the ethical work on the number of excerpts that the Ethics Council addresses, we're measuring it on the operational work done through the operational management of the Bank of Norway. It is at the moment that the companies change behavior, that we have actually succeeded through the administration we do, and I believe that Norway's Bank is doing in an excellent way today, and should do more of it. That is why it was important for us to strengthen the operationally responsible administration of the Bank of Norway, and I am pleased that the Stortinget has joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e670	According to the Storing Message, the total administrative costs were 0,066 pst. the average market value of the fund. In addition to stating that the Ministry is satisfied that management costs have been reduced as part of administrative capital in recent years, and that compared to other funds, costs are low, the collapse message does not use very many column millimetres in cost analysis and assessments. The left-hand side suggests that this can be usefully expanded at the next crossroads. Among other things, it may be interesting to assess whether the management costs are proportional to the higher returns of 0.31 pst. in the case of active management, not least against the additional risk compared to the yield on the reference index. The Minister’s question is whether it has been agreed on this, and that next year’s big news should contain a broader analysis and discussion of the management costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e675	It is important for the government to shed broad light on the activities carried out by the Bank of Norway through the management of the State pension fund abroad. I believe that what we have mentioned in the message gives a quite comprehensive picture of a very effective management, which I believe we have every reason to be very proud of. I also want to remind the representative that low administrative costs are also related to the share that is being set aside for other administrators. In this situation, very much is done by the bank itself in an excellent way. All of these questions are related, and in that case we will have to deal with next year's announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e680	The SV and the Workers' Party have made a proposal asking the government to draw up a strategy for strengthening human rights, with a particular focus on the rights of indigenous peoples and the labour rights enshrined in the ILO core conventions. There are no other parties joining, nor the Right Party and the Advance Party, which are the government parties. Can the Minister of Finance explain the main arguments for strengthening human rights in the management of the State pension fund abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e685	Let me first say that I think it is remarkable how many ideas the previous government party SV has come up with after they came out of government after eight years. They themselves have had the Minister of Finance for four of the eight years, and what I noticed was that Serigstad Valen was called the Laissezfaire Tankegang, so his own Minister of Finance, in that case, ended up as long as SV was in government. I believe that we manage the fund in a good and long-term way with the overall objective, namely that the fund should be a long-term financial investor. Then it's not that you don't take human rights into account and other important ethical issues. There are guidelines drawn up by the Storting as a basis for the ethical work carried out by the Bank every single day. If the Stortinget believes that the basis for ethical management should be extended, I believe it is natural to discuss it, but practice has been to build stones and investigate thoroughly before any new decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e692	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e695	The annual report on the management of the State pension fund, SPU and SPN contains the results and assessments of the management in 2013 and plans for the further development of the fund’s framework and investment strategy in the future. Every year, adjustments and changes are made based on thorough professional evaluations — and political assessments and support in the Stortinget, I will add. For the oil fund, the Bank of Norway is managed on behalf of the Norwegian people. The Bank of Norway depends on the confidence and broad commitment of the people to the administration being exercised in order to have legitimacy. Transparency and control of administration are therefore important, in addition to a policy-specific framework such as: regulates what and where it can be invested, and a clear objective of the highest possible return to moderate risk, so that future generations can also make use of oil wealth. In the debate on the 2010 report on the Pension Fund, I pointed out that at the turn of the year we had about 2,600 billion. kr ‘on book’. At this turn of the year, the value of the fund was about 5,206 billion. kr, i.e. twice as big. Both the Bank of Norway and the Folketrust Fund have good results to point to for 2013, among the best in the fund's 24-year history, according to the report. Also in 2013, the SPU has contributed to the development of our common welfare services through transfers from the fund to the treasury. In 2014, the transfer from SPU to the Treasury is SEK 139 billion. kr, or 10 pst. of the total expenditure on public budgets. In some years to come too, the fund will be a major and growing contributor to the development and operation of our welfare services, before contributions fall. SPN is a significant owner and lender in the Norwegian capital market and also invests in the Nordic market. The Norwegian share portfolio is about 10 pst. of the market value of the Main Oslo Stock Exchange Index and make the fund one of the largest investors on the stock exchange. SPU is currently a major owner in the world stock market, and in many companies the fund is one of the largest owners. It influences the ownership and development of companies in which the fund holds holdings. Over time, a framework for the Fund has been developed in the form of investment strategy, ethical guidelines and a responsible investment strategy, control bodies and a competence in fund management and ethics, allowing SPU to have legitimacy and to be a spearhead in responsible investment. It's conscious political choices that lie behind it. We have developed and improved the ethical guidelines year after year, and we are concerned that fund managers in ownership exercise should express expectations of the companies in which it is invested – on good corporate governance, on preventing child labour and promoting children's rights, on risks related to climate change and water management, and the Workers' Party and SV are now also promoting proposals to add human rights and employee rights, which we hope will be adopted here today. It is important that people continue to close up on the oil fund and its management, that the framework for the fund be continued and developed with the support of the Stortinge, as it is envisaged when changes are made to the strategy for responsible investment and its organisation, inter alia, by: the extension decision is transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Bank of Norway. All parties on the Stortinget have agreed over time that the SPU should not be used as a foreign policy tool for changing governments' policies. It is important to separate the management of SPU from Norwegian foreign policy. It ensures credibility and impact in both roles. The proposal on ethical guidelines also for sovereign debt will involve moving very far into foreign policy and could create difficult legal issues both in terms of national law and international law. The same applies to the clarification of actual facts. It has been a principle starting point since the adoption of the Ethics Guidelines, that measures addressed to States are not a suitable instrument for the Fund. However, one exception has been made, concerning the sovereign debt regime issued by the State of Burma, because of the extent of international action against the country. However, it is in their place to add that we do not get away with the fact that SPU is a Norwegian state fund that is perceived abroad as part of Norwegian policy. When the Storting Committees or the government are out traveling, we notice that the interest in SPU is great. The political focus and control of the State pension fund is therefore a matter that will remain on the fund's agenda in the future, and increasingly. Finally, President Obama will now reduce US greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. from the level in 2005 and it shall be complied with by 2030. The measure will affect the coal-fired power station in the United States and reduce the production of coal. The Minister for the Environment welcomes the action. It should also be done by adopting the Workers' Party's proposal to withdraw SPU from pure coal. Coal is a sunset industry. So it's important that we go in for it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e716	It is good that through the treatment of this Communication, the Storting confirms and continues a cross-political agreement on the broad lines of governance of the State pension fund abroad, namely as a financial instrument with the aim of maximising the return on capital through investments with a moderate risk profile. Norway has large natural resources that, in combination with competence, have given us a weight beyond what we could expect based on a relatively modest population. This may apply primarily in areas such as seafood, maritime activities and not least energy. Over the years, our deposits of oil and gas have also been transformed into a financial asset that is now managed by the State pension fund abroad and with its more than 5000 billion. kr is one of the world's largest investment funds. It's big and it's growing. It grows as well as good governance, and it grows through the further injection of capital from the ongoing activity on Norwegian pedestal. This financial asset also contributes to giving Norway a weight through our global ownership. In addition to this overall strategy on the highest possible return to moderate risk, it is good that we can also contribute to setting good standards for business, management, transparency and ethics. It is stated that the SPU shall follow a responsible investment practice that promotes good corporate governance in the companies in which it is invested, which promotes transparency and which takes account of the environment. The ethical guidelines and associated criteria established should be a good guide. There's a very high-priced commitment to these issues. It shows, among other things: the discussion around the Ethics Council and the mechanisms related to extracts. From the Right's point of view, we believe that the solution chosen related to the Ethics Council and the management of extraction mechanisms has been well solved. The current structure, the extent of which is decided in the Ministry of Finance, has led to a risk that the exclusion of companies can be considered as foreign policy or industrial policy desires. Furthermore, the new solution also ensures that Norway’s Bank has the whole chain of instruments in its dialogue with companies and in its ownership management, including extraction decisions. Bringing together and clarifying the responsibilities of the companies in which we invest is important from the results we want to achieve in stimulating good governance. When this responsibility lies with the Bank of Norway, it also means an expectation that competence will be complemented and built up in line with the expectations of the Stortinge for results. However, it is important to stress that the criteria for which companies excluded for ethical reasons remain to be defined by political authorities. This model retains the Ethics Council. Several of the hearings we have received in the process relating to this matter have highlighted the importance of independence and transparency in the field of ethics. On the right, a good model has been found, where the Ethics Council is appointed by the Ministry of Finance after the appointment of the Norwegian Bank, and where the recommendations of the Ethics Council are sent to the Bank of Norway, which in turn makes any decision on extraction. The transparency requirement shall be respected, inter alia: by making the recommendations of the Ethics Council public. Government pension funds abroad are growing, and that also means that the management tasks associated with the fund are growing. The choice of governance and control structure is something that needs to be developed in line with the tasks of the Bank, and of course also in line with international practice and recognised principles of good business management. The right is confident that the government will assess this in an ongoing manner. As announced in the Sundvolden Declaration, the Communication also takes into account investments in renewable energy and in emerging markets. It is good that the government commits itself to increasing investment in renewable energy by increasing the environmental investment framework by up to 30 to 50 billion. kr, i.e. near the double of today. In addition, work is under way to further increase investment in renewable energy. In the case of investment in less developed countries, these tend to have a stronger risk profile than that of the mandate of the SPU. Other actors, such as Norfund, are more likely to be suitable for that type of involvement, and reference is made to the use of ordinary, increased appropriations for that fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e744	It is a good tradition to ensure a broad majority in the Swedish Government for the management of the State pension fund. It is important for stability and predictability, and I think we have contributed to it here too. I want to commend the case rapporteur for a good cooperation on this communication, which I believe has happened in good traditions to find solutions that could bring together a broad majority. I would also like, since we have representatives here for both SPN and SPU – both abroad and domestic – to praise the work they have done, and to acknowledge that this is a good professional effort. We woke up today to a writer in the evening post saying that this message had been deleted if we had sent it to a university exam. So here we have parliaments against universities, because the message goes through here with a good attitude. I believe that the solution that ensures the Ethics Council is good. The Ethics Council shall remain independent, the organisation of the Secretariat shall be continued and the recommendations shall be made public. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that there is, in principle, no significant difference between the extension decision being in the Department or in the Bank of Norway. Norway is making the decisions. But we believe that this is a good solution, and I would say to my good colleague from SV that I do not agree with the report he has that this will not take care of the independence and ethical attention we want it to be. Then I want to connect a few words also to the control and control function, because that's something we both in Stortinget and in the government will be concerned about – we have a little different roles in that way. As the representative Johansen had in mind, this is a fund that is growing considerably, and we have a great responsibility to ensure that control. I would like to say from this speaker that today we are in favour of the arrangement we now have, but it is worth noting that the government is considering the need to get back to the Stortinge in the process of further developing the governance and control structure in the light of the bank's changed tasks and in line with international practice in this area and recognised principles of good business management and good central bank management. I think that is a wise wording that we will also follow up on the Storting, so that we are present with the attention that these great values require. Norway’s Bank’s representativeness supervises and controls the Bank’s operations, including the work on responsible investments, and I assume that the representation will receive the necessary funds to do that job in a good way when the size and complexity of the fund increases. It is also about the competence of representation. Then it has been mentioned that a total increase now agrees that future global climate change could affect the state pension fund abroad’s future returns. This climate risk has long been an element of the management of the fund, but I believe it is important that it is now determined as it does, and will assume that it will be of great importance also for concrete decisions on investment and on the role of the fund as an expression of how Norway manages its resources. All speakers have said that we do not want this fund to be an instrument in another policy area. We agree on high returns and moderate risks. However, in the field of climate, I believe that the functioning of the market, where we invest, where there is a risk of investment, will become a more important issue for decisions taken. The whole question around coal illustrates that, and I expect that we will have more debates about it. Therefore, I would like to end by saying that I am sorry that we have had a lost year in withdrawing State pension funds abroad from coal companies. I think it's good and good with more knowledge, and the Workers' Party is behind the proposal to get an investigation, but I think it's remarkable that the report makes quite a powerful argument against what this sample is supposed to analyse, in a rather systematic review of why one doesn't think one should withdraw from fossil companies. It's an honest thing, but here's a kind of double communication that it's going to be interesting to see the conclusion of when the expert committee's decision comes. From the Workers' Party's side, I think we will follow up on our proposal to withdraw the State pension fund from abroad, if it's not the case at the time that Norway's Bank's wise administrators have already done so, for reasons of risk and profile. It'll be interesting to see, but at least it's a theme we'll come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e766	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e780	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e789	The Financial Market Communication 2013 is an outrageous communication with great agreement in the Committee on the vast majority of issues. History shows that financial stability is important. History also shows that financial stability can turn around quickly. History also shows that we have to be prepared for it unexpectedly. That is why it is important to have solid and robust players in the financial market, and we do so today. Most things are going very well in Norway. The majority of the Committee – the Committee minus SV – notes that one is very satisfied that Oslo Børs has become the world’s largest and most important financial marketplace for the maritime food sector, the second largest in the world on listed shipping companies and the second largest in Europe on energy. The majority believe that it is positive that foreign companies come to Oslo Exchange to raise capital, and that the competence of the Norwegian capital market for energy, maritime food and shipping attracts foreign operators. In the case of competition in the banking market, the majority in the Committee – the Committee minus SV – indicates that only 5 pst. by customers switching main banks during 2013 and that there is a need for more competition between banks. The majority also recalls that the concentration in the Norwegian banking market is very similar to that in Denmark, Sweden, Ireland, the United Kingdom and Germany. The majority support the government's efforts to increase competition in the banking market. This applies specifically to proposals that make it easier to change banks, for example: bank giro number portability. The majority are committed to providing a good framework for the financial industry. Another plural – the Committee other than the members of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left – indicates that the earlier demand for 15 pst. equity through loans for the purchase of the dwelling specifically frame the first-time start-ups and that an entire generation risked being excluded from the housing market. This majority is therefore well pleased that the Minister of Finance has made it clear to the Financial Supervisory Authority that banks should be able to take care of the future behaviour of the borrowers and that it may be defenceworthy with equity requirements down to 10 pst. for first-time buyers. This majority note that the banks have followed up on this by applying themselves to a more liberal line. A third plural – all except the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV – distance themselves from the idea of introducing a so-called financial tax. This plurality suggests that such a tax will affect both Norwegian companies and Norwegian households. This majority believe that a financial tax can separately affect young people in the start-up phase through higher interest costs. This plurality also indicates that the capital requirement for the financial industry is initially high and that additional requirements may have significant and unintended negative consequences for the activity of the Norwegian economy. A single committee points out that due to its unique economic situation, Norway is able to introduce new capital requirements faster than those resulting from the implementation deadlines of the EU. A plurality in the Committee – all except the members of the Christian People's Party and SV – at the same time believes that it is important that Norway does not impose requirements that differ too much according to the requirements of our neighbouring countries, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, and in a way that can give foreign banks an unfair competitive advantage in Norway. This plurality indicates that banks have increased their capital coverage by slowing down the growth in the calculation base, holding back most of the surplus and raising new capital. This plurality indicates that this has an economic impact and that the prices of bankers have a rise as a result. This plurality suggests that Norway, in cooperation with our neighbouring countries, should become a few on the most possible level playing field for banks operating in the same country, including the calculation of risk weights and capital bases. It is also important that the real soundness and capital situation of banks are transparent and comparable between banks in different countries, so that competition in the equity or forward capital markets does not arise in the financial sector. So even if there are some points in this message that you disagree about, there is a consensus about most of it. The Norwegian financial market works well, and everything indicates that he will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e810	The title of this case is hardly suitable for the very large ovations, but the content is crucial, and so important that we do wrong, it can have fatal consequences far beyond the financial institutions. Tightening a screw too hard, having consequences, slacking you up too much, it can also have consequences. The world is full of examples of this and, in particular, of examples of crises in which one has had too little control over the financial industries. We've also had our japs. For many of us, there is now only a slight reminder of the entry of the stock market tractor into Norwegian car park. For those who were responsible for the Ministry of Finance, however, the memories are probably much stronger. The challenge is that it is difficult to predict crises and not least how they develop. However, what we are going to do today is that the situation in the Norwegian economy is in stark contrast to the situation of many of our trading partners. This has not come about by itself. It hasn't just been like this. The world experienced the largest economic downturn since the 1930s in 2008 and 2009. It was handled very well by the government of Stoltenberg. However, the right-hand side felt that the measures were too late and too small. But no, the story shows that it was exactly the right dosage and at the right time. We got through the crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment rate and, after all, a slight decline in the economy as a whole. What our crises have also shown is that banks are very important to our businesses – not surprisingly, given that the vast majority of enterprises in Norway are small and medium-sized enterprises. They often have no alternative sources of funding other than the local or regional bank. Banks are also important social actors in the local environment where they are. I'm afraid, for example. many festivals and cultural events would not see the light of day without a bank on the team. This is why the Labour Party believes it is important for the government to come back to the Storting appropriately with a case of overall policy development for the banking sector. Important keywords are ownership, social responsibility, the competitive situation, etc. We have been contacted by Norwegian banks prior to the processing of this message. They are all subject to the capital requirements and their design. We can state that there is a broad political consensus on the importance of government focussing on regulation and supervision in order to ensure financial stability. At the same time, Norway should cooperate with our neighbouring countries in order to address the small differences in the competitive conditions of banks operating in the same country. Finally, I wonder if there is a typing error in the setting. A third majority, with the exception of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, refers to ‘the previous requirement of 15 pst. equity in the case of a loan of purchase to a dwelling.’;» I have not registered that the 15 pst requirement has been reduced. We remember what was promised in the election campaign and in the Minister of Finance's letter to the Financial Supervision, but the supervisory response showed us that the banks already show great flexibility. We note that it seems to be actually unanimous in the Storting that the equity requirement exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e825	In the case of the ‘pressure error’ referred to by the representative Hagebakken, there is rather a slightly different interpretation of the applicable requirement and the current one. But I'm sure we can do that in a separate round, if that's what you need. There is a great deal of agreement about the setting, and I think the case rapporteur had a very solid review of the various parties' positions. So some brief remarks from my side. After all, we were one of the parties that, during the financial crisis, actually promoted a separate proposal here in the Grand Duchy on what measures were needed to counter a new financial crisis. It was promoted in December 2010. We stand by the good suggestions we have made there. We also note that it has become a great deal of policy both for the previous and for the present government. Of course, financial institutions and banks play an important role in the economy. They offer payment services, deposit facilities and loans to both households and enterprises. The financial industry provides crucial financial infrastructure to serve both these households and businesses across the country. But it can also go wrong, as the international financial crisis has taught us, and as we did in Norway for some years ago, around 1990. This has shown us that this is not a market that only regulates itself. This is a market that needs regulation. We have been lucky in Norway in the sense that the banking crisis in the 1990s caused us to introduce stricter regulations, thus being better equipped when new crises came. We also have large systemically critical financial groups in Norway. DNB has to be said to be in a special position here. This means that there is a need for significant attention from regulators, so that a bank of that size is also given some demands – of course together with other banks, but we need to focus in particular on the system-critical ones – to ensure that we do not get into a similar situation as we have been in the past. We are pleased that the government is following up. So there's someone who says yes, but there's going to be different conditions of competition, etc. There I would like to commend the Council of State, which has worked hard to ensure that foreign owned branches in Norway also have the same requirements as Norwegians. It's a work we're fully committed to. Finally, a question related to some form of financial tax was raised by the representative of Hagesetter. We have taken a positive view of this, provided that it happens on a broad international basis, but we also note that there are more and more countries going in that direction – Denmark, France, Iceland, Israel, and we know it is on the agenda in Germany. I don't think one should be surprised that it's coming – it's despite all this industry that has unfortunately contributed to one of the biggest financial falls in Europe and the United States in many, many years – and that this industry's responsibilities are being looked at, following up with regulations and issues of separate taxation. That's coming, I don't think it's surprising. We are in favour of it, as I said, but we believe that it must be implemented if there is a broad international consensus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e844	I'd like to settle down with some superlative comments from the Left. A well-functioning market economy has provided policy framework conditions that create fair rules for players and productive incentives, including in order to create a more environmentally friendly pattern of production and consumption. Norway’s Bank must have a broad stabilisation mandate that ensures low inflation over time and that at the same time takes into account possible imbalances in the economy as a result of debt build-up, especially in housing. To ensure the confidence of my left financial markets, they must be as open as possible. Therefore, Norway must be an international driver of openness on measures to limit the role of tax havens in the financial markets and to prevent Norwegian companies where the country is a major owner from operating through tax havens. So some comments and reflections about the message we are now handling. What is written about competition seems reasonable. The measures announced are good. When it comes to the portable account number, it is likely that it makes sense to create the business market first, as companies will often experience that changing the account number leads to a much more urgent and cost-intensive process than is the case with ordinary citizens. When it comes to notifying the legislation on outsourcing of IT services, it is important that this does not become so strict as to make Norwegian banks stricter than other European banks. It will then increase the costs in Norway and thus be negative for Norwegian banking customers. Finally, I want to pick up an area where the left has long had a great commitment, where I have to say I'm very disappointed with the government. The capital requirement relating to loans to small enterprises is payable. As part of the EU regulation on new capital requirements, a rule is introduced to encourage banks to grant credit to small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, the capital requirement for this type of credit and lending is reduced by about 24 pst. The background for this is to screen borrowers who will be particularly able to frame the banks that are subject to stricter equity requirements. Small and medium-sized banks do not have an alternative in the bond and certificate markets in the same way as larger companies. The strange thing is that the Norwegian government has chosen to take a fight with the EU at this point and will apply for a derogation from the so-called SME discount in the EU capital requirement when it is to be implemented in Norway. It seems a bit funny – to put it that way – that a government that says one will be investing in small businesses will have this as a mark-up in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e870	We are discussing this communication with the international financial crisis as a backbone. The situation in our own economy is in stark contrast to the situation elsewhere in the world and in Europe in particular. We have – so far at least – an economy with small economic differences, we have good welfare arrangements, and we have high productivity. All of this is an important part of a fair, growth-intensive and forward-looking economy. The EU, for its part, and many of the EU countries, have met the crisis with severe cuts in public budgets. The consequences of this have been cut in public welfare, dramatically increased unemployment and a worsening of an already poor situation for very many people. An entire generation is lost, it's said by some. There are hundreds of thousands of young people who have not had a job and who are not going to get a job. Thousands of houses are empty while people are missing home. If there's one thing we've learned from the financial crisis, it's that less regulation is not the way to go. That is why I want to bring forward what the chairman of the Syversen had to say: the need to tax the financial sector in an appropriate way. In Norway, the financial sector is largely exempt from VAT. This subsidises the financial sector through the tax system. This is money that could be spent on well-being; it could be spent on investments; it could be spent on taxes – for which the government is concerned. We've got it figured out. The previous government did it. If we want to adopt today a financial tax that taxes the financial industry in line with other industries in Norway, we have the opportunity to do so. I notice that a majority of the committee is concerned with marking the distance from the idea of financial taxation, as if it were contrary to some common sense or natural law, that the financial industry should also pay its taxes – like all other sectors. I think that's a very strange signal to give. The international technical debate on distribution and taxation recommends more taxation in the financial sector and in people with the highest incomes, while the government of Norway chooses to shut itself down in ideology and maintain its own views. It is an unwise strategy for the future. It is also worth remembering that the Stortinget later today makes a decision that makes special funds available for marketing to non-professional customers. So we need to increase the speculatory economy in Norway a few minutes after we've dealt with this message. I also find that a strange signal to give. We need more production, we need more regulation, we need more distribution, but we don't need more texas economy. The fact that the right-hand side learns slower than others when it comes to market shortcomings should not be an excuse for wanting to open up more speculation and more unprofessional management of our money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e885	Norwegian financial institutions are doing well. We had high profits in 2013, and a significant part of the profit has been used to increase the capital adequacy. This helps to increase the ability to carry risks and to ensure that they are well equipped to meet the enhanced capital adequacy requirements. A low interest rate over a long period of time contributes to an increased risk of over-growth in debt and asset prices. Despite too high income growth and a rather low level of interest rates, the growth in household consumption has been moderate, and the savings rate has increased in recent years. At the same time, the debt burden in Norwegian households is high. With high debt and mainly floating rate loans, many Norwegian households are vulnerable to a higher level of interest rates or a weaker trend in the economy. The indebtedness of listed non-financial corporations has fallen slightly since 2012. The further development of corporate debt management will depend on the evolution of the economy in Norway and our trading partners. Competition between banks can make them more efficient, lower prices and more innovation. Norwegian consumers and the economy as a whole serve to ensure healthy competition between banks. I believe that this is conducive to good competition for Norwegian banking customers, but both the authorities and the banking customers must contribute to the functioning of the competition. Recent bank lending margins have received considerable attention. This applies in particular to the housing loan margins. Since 2011, bank lending margins have increased, albeit from a low level. It's now a little bit lower than the margins on corporate loans. Corporate loans are usually more risky than mortgages. Traditionally, there have therefore been higher margins on these. The notified difference in the loan margins may indicate that competition between the banks in the mortgage market could be stronger, but we now see that there are signs that the differences are coming up again. In order for competition to function well, customers must have access to good information on alternative offers and it must be easy to exchange banks. In the financial market communication, I am therefore launching a number of initiatives to contribute to increased competition in the financial market. It must be easy for the consumer to get an overview of prices and conditions. There is already a requirement for the marketing of loans to contain information on nominal and effective interest rates, including charges and other costs, prior to the conclusion of an agreement. We are now also going to review the information requirements with a view to making it more accessible and understandable. The financial portal is not a market place, but it serves as an information centre. I want to ensure that the financial institutions on their own websites link to the financial portal. Finance Norway has already encouraged banks to do so. It should also facilitate easier bank exchange. That is why we will start work on number portability, for example. in order to examine whether technology allows the introduction of solutions that were not on the table last time movement was assessed, in 2007. I will also set up a competitive forum for the financial industry. Credit institutions issuing debt securities with special collateral, so-called OMFs, have become widely available. I have announced that we will look into the link between banks and credit companies, and whether the link affects competition. In the future, we will work on how to follow up the different measures. Many countries, institutions and organisations are working on proposals for new rules. In the EU, changes have been proposed and implemented in a number of other areas, including: on deposit guarantee, bank winding-up arrangements, consumer protection, securities trading, hedge funds, credit rating agency and new European supervisory structure. Many of these questions are complicated. The government is working hard to find good solutions, in particular with regard to the supervisory agency case, which has proved to be a challenge, not least in relation to the EEA legislation. Finally, just a few words about the exercise of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway: the 2001 regulation is final. The monetary policy shall aim at stability in the national and international value of the Norwegian krona and the operational implementation of monetary policy shall accordingly focus on low and stable inflation defined as an annual growth in consumer prices, which is over time close to 2,5 pst. At the same time, monetary policy shall contribute to stabilising the development of production and employment. There seems to be broad confidence in the inflation target. I am also very pleased that the Committee has joined the proposals put forward by the government in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e915	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e918	The Minister of Finance certainly agrees that banks play a crucial role in what we can call social machinery. It's almost like the circulation of blood in our body. Then it is very important that the machinery works well in the large and in the small. The Labour Party believes that a comprehensive review and then a comprehensive policy development for the banking sector should be envisaged. To our great surprise, only the red-green parties support this proposal. Can the Minister of Finance confirm, however, that she sees the importance of such important work, and would prefer to start it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e927	I fully agree with Mr Hagebakken that the financial institutions have a significant role in the Norwegian economy. It is therefore important to keep a close eye on the development of financial undertakings, and it is therefore important to have a consistent and close dialogue with stakeholders. Last night I had a meeting with Finans Norway — which I have regularly — to update on the situation and developments. I believe that, through various communications to the Storting, we provide broad and good analysis and information on developments, not least through a wide range of new regulations imposed on banking and financial institutions over a longer period of time, and of which more will also come. So I believe that this we have constant and constant attention to, and we also address it to the Storting at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e935	It has been focused on competition in banking, so in order to take the popular version, I would like to ask the Council of State: on a scale from 1 to 10 – where 10 is optimal – what does she think is the situation of competition in the banking and financial industry in Norway from the point of view of consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e940	I reflected around it in my main post, precisely because it is important to focus on the competition between the banks. On the one hand, competition works pretty well. There are many actors, both large banks, regional banks and smaller, local banks. But it is precisely because it is important to focus all the time on what instruments we can use to further strengthen competition, that I have also addressed a wide range of instruments through this communication. I should also like to say that in the public debate on, among other things, loan margins, etc. we owe it to be clear that some of the income growth that banks have had is due to many of the absolutely necessary capital requirements imposed on banks over a long period of time, and on which it is important that banks have the capacity to realise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e947	I thank you for your answer. Should I interpret it on the scale of 5? Is there any number the government will recognize in?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e952	I don't think the Minister of Finance is wise to start figuring out how good or how bad competition in the banking market is. I think competition is good, but it can get better. That's why it's important to have a click on this. It is important that, in dialogue with the industry, I also underline the importance of this, and that we implement instruments that are followed up by the actors. I am pleased that there is broad support for many of the measures that I have launched in the communication. The fact that competition authorities are now also going through this is good, because it allows us to get an even better picture of the actual situation, which may provide the basis for further action if it turns out to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e959	That's the time for dice rolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e962	As I mentioned in my contribution, it is incomprehensible to me and the Left that the government has chosen to take a fight with Brussels to prevent Norwegian financial institutions from being able to relax the capital requirements associated with lending to smaller companies. Small and medium-sized enterprises constitute the backbone of Norwegian business and are important contributors to the value creation in Norway and to the maintenance of jobs and settlement throughout the country. It is therefore crucial to ensure a good framework for small and medium-sized enterprises and to follow the NHO economic review report that banks are now streamlining credit practices towards business. This naturally comes enough of the new capital requirements. In the wake of the NHO, this is also a central reason why the Norwegian economy is now slowing down, and the loss of production in the economy is significant. With this hindrance, the question of why the government thinks it makes sense with stricter capital requirements for Norwegian business than the business world meets in Europe otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e971	I think it's important to have a nuanced approach to that issue. I fully agree that it is important for Norwegian business to have access to capital. On the other hand, it is also important that Norwegian financial institutions comply with the capital requirements imposed. Now, through the so-called SIFI banks, we have made even more stringent demands on the so-called systemically important banks than we have made to other banks. It puts a greater financial burden on the big ones than on the small ones. But the issue is important to follow up. I had a dialogue with Finans Norway about this last night. So it's not that this isn't on the government's agenda, but we need to find a good balance between, on the one hand, business needs and, on the other hand, having safe, well-capitalised financial institutions that stand by if we were to have a more negative development in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e978	The last time I asked the Minister of Finance about the possible introduction of an activity tax on the financial sector, the Minister of Finance replied that there were costs that would be pushed over to bank customers. But I think that's too simple. It's e.g. such that the experience from Denmark shows that the interest margins do not appear to have been affected by an increase in the financial activity tax. My question to the Minister of Finance is: if the Minister of Finance still believes that this is how the bill is shifted to consumers, is it not an argument that can be used against all taxes for all parts of the business that in some form have customers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e985	I respect the fact that the representative Serigstad Valen and SV are eager to introduce different financial taxes in Norway. The government has so far concentrated on putting in place all the necessary capital requirements to help regulate Norwegian banks and ensure that they are robust, even in a situation where there may be a more demanding economic situation. So I would like to remind you that for the autumn, in October, we will receive the Scheel Committee's report, which provides a broad review of different tax policy challenges, not least in an international perspective. Then the time will be there to discuss different forms of taxation, both how to adapt to the fact that very many countries around us have reduced their corporate tax, and how to find a more comprehensive balance on it within the Norwegian tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e992	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1008	This proposal for a representative proposes the establishment of a mechanism for the cash payment of the tax value of innovation costs in the health sector, referred to as a «health care scheme». The implementation of the proposal would imply that health innovators who are not in the tax position are given a cash payment equal to the tax value of the deduction they would receive for similar costs, given that one was in that position. It is the Committee's view that we share the assessment of the specific challenges posed by the development and commercialisation of new products in the health sector by the proposers. There is considerable uncertainty, the development of new products takes a long time, and there is a great demand for financing development and commercialisation. Health is a great nourishment. It is large locally, it has a large growth rate, it is high at national and also international level, and it makes large social contributions in addition to purely industrial activities. The Committee is also committed to pointing out that innovation, knowledge and technology are essential areas for meeting tomorrow’s competition in a globalised world. At the same time, it is important for the majority of the Committee to point out that it is important to maintain simple tax rules that treat different sectors in a non-discriminatory manner, so that it is the profitability and not the tax system that determines where capital is to be allocated. The tax system is part of a framework to ensure that we achieve the objective of open and free competition, and tax rules must not contribute to discrimination between the different industries. The comparison between the health anti-fungal scheme and the oil-fungal system, which has been in place for some years, is not fully shared by the majority of the Committee, and that is because the oil industry has very special tax rules. The extraction of petroleum involves the exploitation of a limited, localised natural resource resulting in an exceptional return, and it is important to clarify that the marginal tax rate in the petroleum industry is a total of 78 pst. Health innovation is therefore different from oil extraction in a number of areas, and it is therefore most natural for health innovation to be taxed according to normal rules. Although the majority of the Committee does not support the establishment of a health mosquito scheme, the Committee shares the aim of the proposers that several good ideas in the health sector should move from idea to commercial product, but there are, in the view of the majority of the Committee, other instruments that can be as effective as possible. There is reason to point to the stepping-up of the appropriations for industrial research, including: through the strengthening that has taken place, both in the case of the TaxFUNN and the User-led Innovation Arena. I leave to the Left to argue for its minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1025	The right only needs to make a brief comment in addition to what the rapporteur has already said. We think it is commendable that the Left is concerned about research, development and innovation. That's where we share the focus with you. We are also concerned with research, innovation, product development and value creation, and these areas are, of course, also areas of activity in the government platform. We have several schemes aimed at stimulating knowledge environments and companies for increased research and innovation, and examples of this are research funds from the State budget, which are TaxFUNN, BIA funds and schemes in Innovation Norway. It is clear that a scheme such as that proposed by the Left will be difficult to limit to only research and innovation in the health field. This is also a scheme in which the State will take on a large risk without any guarantee of value creation and industrial development in Norway, even if product development would be successful. There is no parallel to the oil discovery on the Norwegian base, as the case-rapporteur was in the Chamber. The oil finds have to be extracted where they are, namely on a Norwegian base, and generate a cash flow and tax back in a guaranteed way, which is very different from other businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1034	Thanks to the case spokesman for the job he has done – although I disagree with some of the assessments and not least the conclusions. Over the years, Norway has spent billions of Community funds on various industrial innovation and risk capital measures. Nevertheless, Norway comes out unnecessarily bad with a clear, falling trend when we compare ourselves to other countries as to innovation and innovation. Traditionally, Norway has been one of the countries in the rich part of the world with the highest level of innovation and entrepreneurial activity. When we now clearly lose ground on various international statistics and on the research collaboration Global Entrepreneurship Monitor and Innovation Union Scoreboard, there is every reason to take this seriously. The creation of value in a high-cost country that Norway still does not have enough weight on the innovation potential of a nation at any given time. An innovation process can be roughly and generally divided into five phases – not just for health innovation: 1st@item: inlistbox Ideas, product and business development phase 2nd@item: inlistbox Start-up phase 3rd@item: inlistbox Early growth phase 4th@item: inlistbox Expansion phase 5th@item: inlistbox Mature phase The risk of failure and financial loss decreases the longer the process comes in. The highest risk, however, is at the end of phase one and in phase two. The availability of risk capital is minimal in the first two phases. This applies naturally to sufficient capital from private investors, which must necessarily outweigh the risk to the return potential. However, that this is also the rule for most of the public funds, there is every reason to ask big, self-critical questions. State Seed Fund, Investinor, SkattenFUNN and User-driven Innovation Arenas are all well and good, but the hallmark of all schemes is that they do little or no good to health founders or other founders in the first, entirely decisive phases, where the lack of capital is precarious. In the election campaign last year, Left launched a capital reform package to remedy this. The daring director of Abelia, Paul Chaffey, applauded the initiative on his blog and was particularly enthusiastic about two of the measures – a capital fund scheme, where early-stage private investors receive a tax deduction to reduce the risk slightly, following the model of the precisely TaxFUNN scheme. And he was positive to a separate seed fund scheme for TTOs/incubators. As the House is probably aware, part of the budget agreement in the autumn is just the last, which the government will return to in the context of the 2015 government budget, and the Left will, of course, contribute proactively and constructively to making the arrangements as good as possible. A seed fund scheme for TTO/incubators will, of course, also benefit health innovations and will be equally important for those who are entrepreneurs. However, when we propose and argue strongly that health innovation needs and defends special schemes, it has, of course, to do so in conjunction with the thorough and highly capital-intensive development and testing phases they depend on to ensure life and health. Where the risks and uncertainties are great for all entrepreneurs, he is extra great for those who take the aim of developing, scaling up and commercialising medicinal products and medical technology, and a health care scheme, as we propose today, is just a tool to stimulate more health innovation through tax incentives. The fact that the model has taken inspiration from the oil industry is, in the Left's view, primarily symbolic and not an argument against it. In practice, such a scheme would in any case act as an interest-free risk loan from the State to health innovators, without mortgage. So simple. So effective. We're using about 8 billion. kr per year for health research. Very little of this ends up as nourishment — and even less as nourishment in Norway. There is an enormous potential to make health innovation easier: medical, health — of course — but also, hopefully, cost-effective. Everyone in the room will agree on that. The fact that the majority not only disagrees with the proposal of the Left on a health mosquito scheme, but in other words does not discuss or propose other measures that could facilitate access to capital for health innovators is therefore surprisingly passive. Since there are probably few turnarounds during the debate today, I can still promise that the Left will contribute to new opportunities in this way, if not for too long. Then I also have to formally put forward the proposal, so it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1072	The representative Terje Breivik then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1075	Now that I'm taking the floor, it's because I want at least there to be no doubt that the country's largest party is very concerned with technology in both health and care, and we express it best by saying 'innovation' in health and care, because it's about how we can connect technology to human knowledge in the best possible way for both those who need care and those who need the highest health care. I think that Breivik has argued well for innovation in this sector, but if the government, together with the majority of others, will not use tax as an instrument in this context, it is because we want simple tax rules, and there is no reason to compare with the oil sector, which is used as a crown argument here. There are very many good schemes available to the healthcare sector today. I think the rapporteur explained well why the majority has landed where we have landed. We want to look for solutions within the ordinary rules. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that I expect the government to pursue an offensive policy, so that we will have the highest of technology, and that we will find appropriate ways to stimulate it. In the municipal sector, much is about the local economy and that all municipalities have the opportunity to participate in this development. In the health sector, it's also a lot about money, but not just about money. It is also about smart working methods, good structures, etc., which means that we get the most out of the money, so that we can become as modern as possible, for the benefit of both those who get sick – but we must primarily prevent disease – and those who are in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1084	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1098	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1105	Very Card: The decision was taken on the basis of Prop. 112 L for 2011-2012, the Act on a new joint arrangement for the reporting of employment and income data by employers to the tax administration, the Employment and Welfare Act and the Central Statistical Office. This scheme is what was called the ‘A’ scheme, or more precisely the ‘A’ Information Act. The purpose is that employer’s reporting on employment and income data should only be reported to one location and thus avoid double reporting to more than one establishment. In this case, Prop. 48 L for 2013-2014, further simplifications are proposed. The amendments here are essentially of a legislative nature, and the adaptations concern the a-information law, the Equation Act, the Tax Act, the Accounting Act, the Tax Payments Act and the National Social Security Act § 24-2. The information shall be delivered electronically to your Tax Directorate. As can be seen, the Tax Directorate will receive the information and be responsible for the processing of the personnel data, including forwarding it to other relevant departments. All parties, with the exception of the Left, have joined the contents of the proposal in the Financial Committee and the government's comments on the individual provisions of the bill. The majority have emphasised that the proposed schemes will lead to increased efficiency and better resolution in the floors. The information and monitoring associated with these will be of much better quality than in the past. Finally, it is estimated that it will provide significant annual financial savings for employers, at a rate of between 500 and 600 million. NOK when the scheme has been fully implemented. Furthermore, reference is made to the proposition and the size is advised to make a decision by law, as indicated in the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1122	Just briefly: I think back in time, and around Christmastime, when we were about to adopt a budget, we were told that we were adopting something that was out of direction and that was going in the wrong direction – which, of course, I did not fully agree with then. I also believe that the additional proposition at the time gave clear signals that the government would start a simplification work, which is also part of this matter, and which many of us actually enjoy. It may not be the biggest thing, but it saves our business for 500-600 million. kr per year. If we put a lot of these issues on top of each other, the savings and not least the reduction in reporting for business will be significant. A lot of people with me are enjoying the simplification started by the government, and we're still impatient and waiting for a lot of similar things, but we're happy for the development that's started.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1131	We are now dealing with a matter where there is a high degree of agreement, and where a number of measures are good and will provide savings over time. The left supports the main content of the proposal, but it is similar to many of the hearing authorities who oppose the proposal to remove the lower limit for employee registration. We share the points of view that have been expressed in your ears from among others. NHO, Employers' Association of Specter, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, the Confederation of Norway's Kemner- and Kommuneøkonomers, NKK, etc. that the proposal to remove the so-called four-hour rule would result in a completely unnecessary increase in the reporting burden for the smallest enterprises. It is enough to point out that the consequences of the proposal are hardly addressed, and that the NHO hearing hearing hearings show that there has been no mention of the value of reporting this type of work. Therefore, the left does not support the proposed change in § 25-1. I would also like to point out that a number of hearing authorities have stated that the specific reporting deadline according to the Aa registry requirement is considered to be very scarce. The left shares that vision, which also includes: Financial statements by Norway show that the sampling system should be carried out on a permanent basis with monthly reporting. We cannot see that the Ministry of Finance uses negative experience with the trial scheme as an argument for passing on today's scheme. I fully agree with the view of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade that it may seem that the concern for the needs of the budgets has partly overshadowed the main objective of the a-scheme, which is a simplification of employers' reporting on entry and income data. The left is of the opinion that there is no simplification for employers by the time limit of the day is passed. A little overarching reflection at the end: Today we are dealing with two things that we could have done easier for small businesses every day. This is the case, and it is the government’s opposition to implementing the EU Capital Directive in the case of lower capital requirements for credit to small enterprises. The big majority chooses to make everyday life a little harder for these businesses. It has an improperly low light of parodi over itself that the party that all along claims that they are for the little man and the little business and against the big system, now consistently choose the system. The left has the slogan 'People First', and with today's vote, we're serious about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1148	Let me first make it clear that this isn't going to be a long post. I want to commend the sitting government and the bulk of the big business for a great efficiency in terms of a simplification and savings plan – presented today – that the previous government started. Here we are together on the good things. I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for having had a simple and good process, which has ended up in a good setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1157	Let me first tell you that the rose that comes from the representative Hagebakken, the government naturally presses enough to its chest and takes good care of it. The case we are dealing with today is, as it is correctly pointed out, a case that has been dealt with earlier in Stortinget, and it concerns the A-Information Act, which was adopted in June 2012. What we are doing now is simply to adapt the rules of popular protection, and I believe – and the government believes – that it is a significant simplification for small and medium-sized enterprises as well. I myself have been an employer and run a small company, where you had to send employee information, payroll information and tax deduction information to both the Tax Agency, Nav and the SSB. Now that you get this together and just have to send this information one place, is a significant simplification and will make everyday life much easier and much better for businesses. The proposal that is being dealt with shows simply that it simplifies and red tape, both for most people and for businesses. I would like to comment on a small matter that was put forward by the representative Breivik from the left. I understand his concern and his argument about the four-hour rule if you look only at the hearing replies that came in the first round of the hearing. However, it is also possible to look at what is proposed, which sets a lower limit on reporting obligations in terms of amounts, which is harmonised with what is to be reported to tax authorities, which would also be a significant simplification. You have to look at what's in the proposition, and not just what's in the hearings. I am concerned that the job for up to four hours may also have an impact on the right to a daily allowance and the right to sickness benefit. And not least when we're about to implement a new disability benefit scheme, where we're going to be able to use our residual capacity at any time, and where income can vary, it's very sensible to have control and give proper benefits to those people who are going to have short-term benefits and disability benefits. Therefore, it would make sense to remove the four-hour rule and set a lower limit on the amount of money to be able to offer proper and simple arrangements to these people at the right time. Finally, I am very pleased that we have a broad agreement in Stortinget on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1168	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1182	It is a unanimous committee that agrees to the entry into force of the tax agreement between Norway and Cyprus. I only have a small comment in addition to the matter. Members of the Committee have received some enquiries from the Nordics covered by the Agreement who are unsure whether they are able to handle and understand the Agreement correctly, whether they are able to obtain documentation, etc. There's a lot of retired people we're talking about here. It is clear that the government is committed to facilitating a system that is manageable for the individual taxpayer. From the pulpit, I would like to refer to what was also stated in the Sundvolden statement, namely that the government is working on these issues and is considering establishing a service office for the Nordics abroad in cooperation with Nav and Skateetaten. We also want to review the tax at source.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1189	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1208	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1215	Then I am delighted to present proposals for a new law on the management of alternative investment funds. This is based on proposals from a working group set up by the Financial Supervisory Authority on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and implies that managers of a number of collective investment structures that are not currently subject to specific regulation are regulated. This applies to administrators of, inter alia: active equity funds – so-called private equity – and different investment companies. In addition, national fund managers, including special funds, governed by the applicable law under the Swedish Securities Fund Act, will be subject to the new proposed law. The framework for the legislative proposal is assumed to be future EEA obligations equivalent to Directive 2011/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. The aim of the Directive is, inter alia, to: improving the ability to control a group of financial actors with a significant impact on the functioning of markets in Europe. Until now, they have not been subject to pan-European regulation and control. In addition, the aim of the Directive is to facilitate an internal market in the EEA area for the management and marketing of alternative cross-border investment funds and not least to strengthen investor protection. The legislative proposal regulates alternative investment fund managers, the marketing of such funds and depositaries for such funds, but not the alternative investment funds as such. This is a desired regulation, both from the industry itself and from the political side. That being said, it is important to clarify that the comments of the Committee may look somewhat unsound, because it is quite correct to point out that some of the reasons for the financial crisis were a lack of transparency and investor protection and generally high lending. However, despite the fact that the financial crisis has led to a review of regulation in banking and finance, it is probably an oversimplification to point to the fund industry in particular. It wasn't via hedge funds or private equity that some countries took up government debt they didn't have to bear. Many will also remember the housing bubble in the United States, which probably peaked around 2006, caused by complex political regulations intended to promote self-ownership at home. It is said that the road to hell is paved with good intentions, but in the name of the after-clock we can say that it is also the road to a financial crisis. It would be a little unreasonable to blame banks and housing brokers for poor political regulation and greed, which led to the housing bubble, on alternative investment funds. The work of the PE companies on financial «gearing» is also commented on. It's worth noting that this is a very small part of their business. The most important thing is, as also noted in the statement, financial and organisational restructuring: the purchase of companies in the same industry in several countries or regions and their merging to exploit the economies of scale that companies were too small or too old-fashioned to see for themselves. This is a useful and important social function. This leads to the development and improvement of industries. The description of hedge funds is probably also somewhat incomplete as most hedge funds have little to do with liquidity. My point is that it is certainly a lot wrong to say about the administration industry, but that it is not its role during the financial crisis that is most controversial, but the structural problems in the industry, which this legislation is just trying to do something about. In addition, better registration and regulation are required so that potential investors can be protected, not least against unprofessional actors, who are undoubtedly present here as in all other sectors. From what we can read of the input from the industry itself and a broad majority in this Chamber, the legislation is also welcome. I assume that the minority in the committee may present its proposals in the vote. I would like to thank the Committee for its preparatory work and cooperation and recommend the setting up of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1232	The marketing of alternative investment funds to non-commercial clients would mean a significant release for alternative investment fund managers, including international specialised funds. Thus, the government proposes that special funds, which until just a few years ago were prohibited from establishing and marketing in Norway, should now also be offered to non-professional customers. When the prohibition on special funds was lifted, it was a prerequisite that this should only apply to professional actors. This will increase the risk of individuals making high-risk investments. It can have adverse effects both on individuals and on society. I wish that more in the Committee had stressed the LO opinion on this matter, which states: ‘This type of fund was a contributing factor in the wave of speculation that triggered the financial crisis. Excessive speculation triggers mass unemployment crises and therefore there is good reason to minimise this activity.’» We in SV join this criticism, and we are opposed to the government's proposal that alternative investment funds should be offered to non-professional actors. So it is not said that I believe that this decision alone will trigger a new financial crisis in Europe – which could almost come to the fore when you heard the case rapporteur – but I think it is important to limit this type of activity. Even today, it is possible for non-professional customers to make poor investment choices with high and unknown risks. However, it is difficult for me to see that there is a good reason for allowing for several types of high or unknown risk funds. Many of the alternative investment fund funds appear to be directly unsuitable as investment funds for non-professional clients. Our close history shows that the banking and financial industries on several occasions have exploited the information deficits of private customers by exaggerating potential gains and subverting the dangers. Also known, large banks are convicted of this kind of behaviour against small savers. There is every reason to fear that in the future there will be several cases of this kind, and that Stortinget now assumes a responsibility for it. It's unfortunate. Although some restrictions and regulations are proposed, as well as the rapporteur explained, I believe that this will not be very close enough to offset the negative consequences. Encouraging increased speculation will not add added value to society as a whole. I support the proposals for tightening and regulation proposed in this proposition, but at the same time I would like to point out that there is a need for stricter regulation of alternative investment funds than the government here proposes. A ban on the most speculative type of fund is also necessary. The LO has also called for the prohibition of purely speculative funds, preferably at European level as well. Exceptions may be considered where alternative investment funds are available that can contribute positively. The LO also suggests that Norway should work for this internationally. We support that, and therefore I take up the two proposals from SV that are in the setting. This includes a explanation of vote: the proposal we are discussing today is designed in a way that makes it technically difficult to support the constraints and regulations that are, after all, in the case, without supporting that opening to offer alternative investment funds to non-professional actors. Special funds are not something we want in Norway. That is why we have made proposals to ban special funds in Norway. Subsidizedly, we support the Committee's position, with the regulations it involves. I expect that our primary position is thus made visible and understood by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1248	The President interprets the representative Serigstad Valen as referring to the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1251	This bill implies that a number of currently unregulated actors are subject to concession obligations and are subject to supervision by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Alternative investment fund managers are also required to report to the Financial Supervisory Authority on the main markets in which they invest and the instruments in which they invest. Management means portfolio management and risk management for alternative investment funds. Alternative investment funds are defined as a collective investment facility that collects capital from multiple investors with a view to investing capital for the benefit of investors and includes all types of collective investment structures that are not traditional mutual funds. Examples of alternative investment funds are active own funds and different investment companies. In addition, national funds, including special funds, which are governed by the law of the mutual fund law in force, would be to be considered alternative investment funds. According to the bill, the administrators will, inter alia: be required to provide investors with a range of information on the alternative investment funds prior to investment. This will strengthen investor protection. The legislative proposal implements assumed future EEA obligations equivalent to the AIFMD Directive. Although this Directive has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, the legislative proposal will help Norwegian actors to have framework conditions in line with those in the other EEA countries. Each EEA country is free to decide whether to allow alternative investment funds to be marketed to non-professional investors. In line with the work group's proposals and the positive comments of most hearing bodies, the legislative proposal proposes that such marketing should be permitted. The bill sets out clear requirements for enhanced investor protection through several different safeguards when marketing alternative investment funds to non-professional investors. For example, a concession would be required for the AIFM to market the funds to non-professional investors. In addition to strengthening investor protection vis-à-vis consumers, the proposed safeguard measures will also provide a more comprehensive regulatory framework for the marketing and sale of different types of alternative investment funds to non-professional customers, thus closing the gaps in current legislation with regard to the marketing of different types of alternative investment funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1262	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1276	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1293	This interpellation has not become less topical since it was promoted a while ago. It's almost just looking up in any newspaper on any day, you have some kind of lookup that can be related to the area of black economy or black work. In this way today’s first page of Today’s Business can serve as an example. It says that 100 car washrooms have been checked, none of which met the minimum requirements. The statement by the responsible authorities is: ‘This is slavery.’ Then we are also on adjacent issues to the black economy. There is no doubt that, for example: trafficking in human beings is part of this, unfortunately. Black work – or work done without paying taxes – is one, unfortunately, growing problem. Government loses large revenues. White companies lose their jobs. As a result, workers' rights are weakened as the black economy is growing. According to the Tax Administration, it is now estimated that black work amounts to 420 billion. kr – it is a considerable amount – every single year, and through it it is amortised against 150 billion. NOK that should have been included in the treasury as a tax or levy. We can of course discuss the numbers, but I think everyone who is concerned about this topic will agree that there are large amounts. According to a study by Fafo, one in three managers said that there has been more undeclared work in their industry in the last five years. In paint and construction loss companies, almost two out of three now believe that there has been more black work. We have to assume that the Norwegian working life is changing. The level of undeclared work has probably increased since the opening up of labour immigration from new countries in Europe in 2004. These are workers who, to a small extent, organise themselves, who, in part, do not know their rights, and who are thus an easy prey for unprofessional and, in part, criminal actors. In the case of individual industries, Norwegian industry is now alerting. It is the employer’s side that says that the serious actors, with proper and proper pay and working conditions, are in the process of being uncompetitive. This also has a different effect: it is becoming more difficult to train Norwegian skilled workers. Here we see that the numbers go down, because it doesn't seem to be an attractive job when so many jobs are black in the same industry – at least not for those who are busy acting white. The seriousness of this seems to me to be underlined by the Attorney General, Tor-Aksel Busch, who recently asked both the police and the prosecution to investigate several cases in this type of crime. The State Attorney is, among other things, is concerned that a large number of reports from the Labour Inspectorate rarely end up in a conviction. In an interview with the Newspaper, Busch says that the police and prosecution authorities must ‘discover and investigate completed several work-criminal cases’. I am pleased with the initiative – which is now on the steps and where the start-up shot has gone – for more coordinated work between the various public agencies. Hopefully that'll give you results fast. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State will come back to this in its reply. It's an uplifting move, in my opinion. But the political environment can do more to combat growth in black work. I would like to make some suggestions and through it, of course, challenge the Council of State and the Government. In Oslo, we have now decided to introduce a new and tougher line towards enterprises with regard to the use of apprentices. This purchasing power – to call it so – is used by the municipality, which is then to issue tenders to force more apprenticeships and to ensure that more skilled workers are trained. By requiring apprentices, many unprofessional operators are excluded from notifying their interest in a tender. In this way, we can beat several flies in one taste and ensure better recruitment and exclusion of unprofessional operators. There is no doubt that this is possible. Both the EEA Regulations and the Public Acquisition Regulation allow such conditions to be imposed. I would like to specifically challenge the government whether it will consider setting requirements – as the Municipality of Oslo has done – that when public works are offered, there is also a requirement that there should be apprenticeships in the company. Other measures should also be considered. In the interpellation text, this is a tax certificate, which, in my opinion – and as I believe the reports of the Evening Post show – often turns out to be a false insurance, because it has very limited value, but nevertheless is perceived as a stamp of approval by those who obtain it, even if it cannot function in any way, with today's tax code. So, until the issue of the exchange of information on which different public actors sit, which is often, for good reasons, subject to a lack of confidentiality. When the tax rate itself asks if you have received a worse tool than necessary, you also have to ask yourself if the interface is correct. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State whether we should consider whether we can coordinate information somewhat more, so that it can also help to identify suppliers who do not have pure flour in the bag. I notice that several people have pointed to the VAT system. Turning back on the VAT system to prevent undeclared work has been discussed in the past. The construction industry has taken it up. I know that others in business are more skeptical. I would like to hear the Council of State's view on looking at the VAT system and the order in which it is paid, and on who is ultimately responsible for ensuring that VAT is paid, so that no VAT is refunded without even having paid anything for themselves, which unfortunately is the case in some cases today. Is this something that the Council of State has on its agenda? I really don't think there's much disagreement in Norwegian society about the description of what this implies for society. It's an escalating development – I'll say it's almost an epidemic – that we have to help stop. This is the employer's side and the employee's side. NHO Director Kristin Skogen Lund says the following: ‘The threat to Labour Norway undermines the ability of the serious companies to compete and survive.’ I welcome the government's response to what it will do to get a healthier and better working life and to combat the black economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1329	Let me first thank the representative Syversen for focusing on an important societal challenge. I have understood that there is broad political agreement both on the problems we are facing and that action is needed. Let me start by stressing that Norwegian working life is essentially characterised by tidy and serious actors. However, in Norway, as in most other countries, we have challenges with a black economy, with serious economic crime. This is a major societal problem that needs to be tackled. Contributing to growth in the black economy is not only unsolvable to the community by, inter alia: tax and tax relief, the black economy is also very damaging to business, because dishonest business operators compete seriously. In recent years, police, control agencies, industry and trade unions report an increase in the criminalisation of parts of the labour market. In particular, the construction industry is exposed, but also other industries, such as the restaurant industry and the cleaning industry. Labour market crime contains elements of both organised and financial crime. The threat picture involves forms of crime such as: money laundering, corruption, tax evasion, social dumping, crime related to health, the environment and security, identity theft and social security fraud. It is therefore important that different social actors exchange experiences, learn from each other and cooperate in combating labour market crime. Kripos is working on developing an overall common threat assessment with contributions from, among others: the tax administration, the Labour Inspectorate and the Safety and Health Council. This is expected to be completed in the autumn of 2014. This threat assessment will be added to the annual and very useful threat assessment already developed by Ecocrim. A common understanding of the crime scene and the threats will provide a better basis for cooperation between police and control bodies. On 5 May the same institutions organised a conference on labour market crime. In this area, the industry, trade unions and the relevant departments made contributions that reflected the scope and complexity of the subject. What emerged at the conference underlines the need for good and close cooperation between control agencies, police and business. The fight against economic crime is characterised by cross-sectoral issues. Control measures, police and prosecution authorities depend on cooperating with each other and with honest business actors. In addition to providing a common basis for analysis, there is a need for greater coordination of priorities and good practices for cooperation between departments. New forms of cooperation between control centres are now being tested. In the period January 2014 to December 2015, the tax administration, the chemist in Bergen and the Labour Inspectorate will carry out a pilot project to test out a form of work where they are physically co-located and work together on issues against the same actors in the labour market. Experience suggests that actors who are unprofessional in some parts of legislation and legislation should also be examined in more detail about their relationship with other legislative areas. The project includes, inter alia: joint or coordinated control activities are carried out. Such cooperation between the departments could therefore increase the impact of the work of the individual establishment and contribute to the seriousness of the labour market. I assume that the agencies are always doing their utmost to find sensible, smart and cost-effective forms of cooperation. At the same time, I believe that we need to work to ensure that cooperation between the agencies does not go beyond their normal operation, but becomes an integral part of the operation in the respective departments. Since 1992, governments have promoted five action plans against economic crime. The previous action plan was launched on 15 March 2011 and ran out of March this year. The government has not taken a final decision on the promotion of a new action plan, but is working on a proposal for a new action plan on economic crime. I believe that the starting point for any new action plan should be to identify actions relating to several administrative areas and their coordination. Different measures will be considered and important parts will be included in the work on any new action plan. As mentioned above, a number of concrete measures are being considered, including: easier taxation of foreign workers in short-term employment in Norway. Simple and comprehensible legislation will have greater legitimacy and could provide better enforcement. Therefore, work may also affect the scope of tax evasion and non-payment of taxes. One of the intentions behind the change in the division of tasks in the tax administration is to improve the fight against undeclared work. By coordinating control and administrative procedures for several types of taxation, the department also has better opportunities to see these in context. Tax evasion can also be a sign of tax evasion, and therefore it is important that we have a coherent context in this respect. The change of organisation will facilitate the fight against tax fraud and can also contribute to the fight against the black economy. The government has already stepped up its efforts to combat economic crime in 2014 by providing Økokrim nine annual works and the police districts’ eco-team eight years’ work. It is also natural that the government in the follow-up to the Police Analysis also looks at the possibility of making eco-teams in the police more robust and efficient. It shall be assessed, inter alia: whether we should have fewer but bigger and more powerful eco-teams. The government is concerned that we have a good and robust regulatory framework in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, and that the rules are being complied with in practice. Norway is currently reviewing our compliance with the revised Financial Action Task Force recommendations against money laundering and terrorist financing. This is the leading international body for cooperation on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. The evaluation will report on Norway’s implementation of the recommendations, as well as on the effectiveness of Norway’s anti-whitewashing and anti-terrorist funding regime. Norway, together with Spain, is the first country to be evaluated following the new recommendations, and we have to expect that the report – which will be discussed at the FATF plenary meeting in October – will show some weaknesses and improvement points in the Norwegian anti-whitewashing and terrorist funding regime. We will then consider how we should follow up on the shortcomings identified in the report. While measures to combat the black economy are important, it is also important that the measures do not conflict with the legal certainty of taxpayers. Taxation is a major interference in ownership, and a good tax system depends on the trust of taxpayers. Confidentiality is a fundamental legal certainty for taxpayers and it must protect the trustworthiness of taxpayers and the public. It is therefore necessary to exercise caution to include in an important legal certainty guarantee that the disclosure rules apply to taxpayers. The evening item had earlier this year a series of articles focusing in particular on the procurement rules and the tax certification system. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that the tax certificates only provide information on tax suspensions at the time the certificate is issued. The certificate shall contribute to the assignment of suppliers who have settled their tax and tax obligations. The Tax Certificate does not provide any additional information on tax and tax relationships. It is demanding to go further in the work towards the black economy through the extension of the information contained in the tax certificate, including: on the grounds of professional secrecy. Furthermore, the procurement rules and the EEA rules restrict the information that may be taken into account in public acquisitions. I believe it is an important principle in Norwegian law to be innocent until the opposite is proven, and it would be unfortunate if the obligation of confidentiality were eroded, so that innocent operators were excluded from the market based on suspicion of tax evasion. However, those who operate black shall not be allowed to escape. If a suspect undertaking is entrusted with a task, this does not mean that the work of the authorities to control and prosecute that undertaking ceases to exist. In the fight against the black economy, different resource challenges are often identified by the authorities as limiting efforts. I think other types of challenges are so prominent. We cannot therefore exclude that measures of an organisational or structural nature, as well as any legislative changes, may be more important than the provision of more resources. I think the black economy is a threat to the welfare community and is destructive to social morality. It is also destructive to a healthy and serious business. The government will seek to find good measures against the black economy. I am pleased with what I see as a cross-political consensus that this is a problem, and I look forward to cooperating with the parties on the Great Britain on good responses to this societal problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1367	In that description the Minister of Finance gave, I think I can join very, very much – perhaps everything. I'm not so sure if it had been the case for some years back, but who has moved where, I'm not going to bring up here. I rather go into the answers given by the Council of State. This joint work across the boundaries of the union, I think we can all join together to the full. The conference held in May is precisely to contribute to this. And we also look forward to the joint threat assessment to come to the harvest. So the Council of State said that the last action plan against economic crime was completed in May. I expect the measures to continue, but there is no clear message from the new government – that was the plan of the old government – whether it will take on a new action plan. I think it is fine with an action plan, but the most important thing is action that works. I want to challenge the Council of State in two situations, which I did not realize she was responding to. I take note of this with interfaces, privacy and information, but I think it is also important to clarify, for example. in the case of the tax certificate, what it does not respond to. As it is today, I think many people think it gives answers to far more than what it actually does, thus becoming a sleeper cushion. I also want to challenge the Council of State on the question of the requirements of public procurement. We know that the construction industry is particularly vulnerable. For example, I think demands for apprenticeship places would have a very good effect. And that will mean a lot in a market where the public is a big part. Then I didn't hear if the Council would look at the so-called reverse charge obligation in terms of measures to prevent VAT fraud. I am aware that it is a controversial question, but whether there is any indication that this is an assessment, it might be good for the Storting to be familiar with it. Finally, I take seriously the invitation the Council of State gave to a broad cooperation on this. I am absolutely sure that both the Finance Committee and others in this Chamber will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1382	It is quite right, as the representative Syversen also said, that although the duration of the action plan is now running out of time, it does not mean that the government does not focus on what kind of instruments we should take in order to step up efforts against black work and economic crime. Rather, the government is now considering: are we going to take time to present a new action plan, or are we going to spend time operationalising the necessary measures that we think will have an effect? There are some possibilities pointed out by the representative of the Syversen. I'm sure that in the subsequent posts there will also be many different inputs and views on this. I can assure the Storting that I am going to follow closely the debate and take with me the input and views that are being launched from the Parliamentary Chair, so that we can follow them up in an appropriate way and assess the appropriateness of the measures. What I want to assure you at least is that both I and many other government governments have full pressure on this work. Coordination across borders is important – simply because we can make better use of resources, and because the scope for several types of crime in the wake of certain incidents can be revealed. Therefore, it is important that we have broad and cross-sectoral cooperation, and we will continue to put pressure on this. I would like to repeat that I am very pleased that the representative Syversen is raising this debate in Stortinget. I can assure you that we have full pressure on the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1393	Fortunately, Norwegian working life is serious and tidy. Nevertheless, there is a lot of concern, and it is very good that the Seven today is raising this interpellation on labour market crime. And the Council of State promises full pressure, and then we hope it's full pressure in the right direction. Globalisation has led to increasing pressure on the good Norwegian working life model. High levels of labour migration from the east have led to social dumping, with the highest level of positive labour immigration. Unfortunately, we see unprofessional employers in more and more industries. There are also many private individuals who use, for example, black cleaning and construction services, where it is obvious that service providers do not receive tariffs. Unfortunately, we see examples of unacceptable conditions in more and more sectors and with a spread to the public sector as well. So the crime of working life has a wide range. The situation is obviously serious. The development of Norwegian working life in the future is somewhat uncertain, both in terms of unemployment and the weakening of pay and working conditions and social dumping. With the in-depth crisis in the southern European labour markets and the large pay gap we see in relation to countries such as Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Romania, much remains to be done if labour migration challenges are not met. It is likely to increase and at the same time adopt new forms. Social dumping and the crime of working life tend to spread like rings in the water if no strong instruments are put in place. This is about decent working conditions for foreign workers in Norway, but it is so much more about how serious enterprises can be weakened and tempted to become unprofessional when they lose contracts to unprofessional operators, how ordinary Norwegian workers can thus lose their jobs or get more precarious and poor conditions, how labour organisations can gain less influence, lose members and get into a bad circle, and how this can ultimately weaken the Norwegian model of working life and society. The message of the Labour Party is therefore simple: social dumping and labour-life crime must be taken seriously as a social problem. If unfair working conditions are taken into account in the Norwegian labour market, they will affect both the normal worker in Norway and the serious establishments. The work to ensure a well-regulated and decent Norwegian working life must therefore be given even higher priority in the future, unless the Norwegian social model with its unique combination of high trust, smooth living conditions, good distribution and good welfare arrangements can also be undermined. Social dumping and labour crime are often linked to tax evasion and thus contribute to weakening the income used in our welfare systems. It is demanding to bring about social dumping and crime at work. One thing is certain: if we put a hole in the dam against social dumping, these semi-criminals -- yes, they're not just half-criminals all, either -- are the actors digging new holes in the dam. It is therefore very important that the government actively monitor the fight against social dumping and promote new initiatives and instruments in the future. We must never rest, and we in the opposition will be partners, but at the same time guards for that to be done enough. And as the representative Syversen was in, we have to do the right things, have measures that work. We would like to engage in dialogue on what it can be – we cannot find all the solutions here today. There are some recipes that already exist. The Stoltenberg government did a lot to combat social dumping and to promote a decent working life. Three Action Plans have been presented, most recently in May 2013, including: with new industry programmes and increased penalties and clarifications of criminal liability, to mention only a few examples. It's work and done a lot, but new stones have to be turned around. Here, all good forces must join together – in this room, in the labour market, and not least in good and close cooperation between the stations we have, and many of them are affected by this, which must go to work powerfully.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1419	I am very pleased that this matter has been raised by the representative of the Syversen. Black work and organised labour-life crime are not just a threat to Norwegian jobs that are losing out on competition against unprofessional enterprises. Ecocrime states that tax crime is the biggest threat to economic crime. It undermines the Norwegian welfare state through tax evasion in the billions class. But the most serious thing is that there are examples of people at risk being exploited in the most serious way. We can't accept this. The public actors responsible for combating trafficking in human beings and serious exploitation must have targeted instruments. According to the tax code, there is a clear trend towards more systematic and organised crime with high adaptability multi-criminal networks. More and more evasions are still related to the rest of the world, and the hidden movement of tax foundations is largely through hidden capital flows, notional relocations and money laundering via corporate structures in tax havens. This shows that this is not just a local problem, but a global problem that requires international cooperation and solutions. Labour crime is about serious and real crime. The fact that unprofessional companies cannot compete on equal terms against the serious is unsustainable. We need to make it easier to work white, but we also need to face work-life crime with severe penalties and powerful instruments. People exposed to human trafficking and exploitation will receive help. I've looked at a lot of the good work done in this government, and one of the most important things we can do is to make it easier to work white. If tax is considered legitimate and fair, more people will choose away the black economy, and that is one of the reasons why simplification and improvement of existing systems are important. In addition, punishment and control are still fundamental in the fight against crime, and continuing to work against social dumping and strengthening the Labour Inspectorate is something the Right has called for for for many years and continues to work with. In addition, simplification and improvement work in several areas, and one of the things that we have also addressed is the professionalisation and efficiency of public procurement processes, including the development of a public-private innovation guide. This also contributes to the fight against the unprofessional. The work is demanding precisely because it affects so many agencies, and we need a strong effort across disciplines and institutions to bring crime to life. But, as always when we face a serious threat, fortunately there are many good suggestions for solutions. We need robust legislation, and we need effective follow-up, and there seems to be cross-political agreement on that. That's why I want to warn you about two things. One is that the massity of the proposals must not go so far as to prevent what we want to defend, namely a safe working life, safe jobs and a living business in Norway. I also want to say that labour immigration has contributed mainly to economic growth in Norway. So we have to be careful about suspecting groups and individuals and now starting with a rhetoric that causes everyone to be accused of being organized criminals, because it will be very harmful, not only to the Norwegian economy, but also to the individuals who may be exposed to this. There is little doubt that this government is taking this work seriously. I'm very secure after the state council's articles, and it's really very rare that you encourage politicians to talk more. Very often we are encouraged to speak less and do more. Here we need both, I think. We have to do more, but maybe the government should also follow the call to talk more about all the good work they're doing, because on many in the opposition, it sounds like you're not doing enough. But we know that the use of many instruments is under way, and we know that there is going to be a meeting with the major players in business and professional cooperation now on 10 June. I would therefore encourage the Council of State and her colleagues to talk more about all the good work, so that we can explain it, because I know that the government is doing well to combat organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1430	I would first like to say that I think it is very nice that the representative Syversen addresses this issue that he has done here in this interview. Many suggest that black work is an increasing problem in Norway. I also experienced that when a year ago I was going to sell the house and needed help to do some work before I left it for the hall. I added to Mittanbud.no what to do, and I got a number of answers. Unfortunately, a lot of them introduced me to ask if I should have it black or white. I replied, of course, that I should have it paid off. The one even asked me for a foundation for why I should have it even. Of course we don't want it like that. This is a development that has gone wrong for a long time. My impression is that it is mainly in the private market – not companies, but private individuals who buy services – this increases most. There may be many reasons for this, but increasing labour immigration from Eastern Europe, among others, which has other cultures, has unfortunately contributed to this development. There are different kinds of black work. For example, there may be two neighbors – one who is a carpenter, and one who is a painter – who become a few that the carpenter builds a bow for the painter, and the painter paints the house. A lot of people want to think of it as pretty innocent, but there's something to give up, and it's some kind of black work. The same is true when a carpenter who works full-time helps the neighbor in his spare time to decorate, for example. the ceiling and receives NOK 10 000 for it. It's also black work, although many people will feel that it's not very, very serious. On the other hand, an actor who works mostly black, and the last example is probably the example that most people will react most negatively to, and that is also the example that gives most negative ringing effects in terms of, for example, unacceptable working conditions. So the question is, why does black work exist? That's of course because it gives a monthly financial gain. It's a part of making things do black and not get rid of. It comes from the fact that we in Norway have a high marginal tax, and therefore there are few countries in the world where it is so profitable to work black versus white, as it is in Norway. There is also a limited control. Many feel that there is little risk of being taken, and in large parts of society and the population, it is also quite socially accepted both to work a little black and to pay a little black, unfortunately. So the question is, what can and should be done to reduce the amount of black work? One must, of course, have a change of posture. It is a long-term project. The same is true: more control, more cooperation and more police to take more and more examples. But then I also think we're forced to get into that area that we're going to make it less profitable to choose black, and then it's reducing the marginal tax. After all, government and government are doing well, but it takes a long time before you get any effect on it. The next step is to do what one has done in Sweden: introduce a root subtraction. In Sweden, there are $50,000 per capita that can be deducted from the tax every year. Then you have to go to one that operates legally, to get a receipt to subtract. In Sweden, the introduction of this deduction has had a very positive effect. I'm also very pleased that the government platform has established that one should settle the gains and consequences of a root deduction in Norway. I look forward to that assessment being presented, and hope that this can be an important contribution to fighting black work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1452	Black economy is nothing new, it's probably as old as any society is. What is new now is that there is a growing problem in Norway, and now black work is linked to ever more serious crime. It goes from black work to crime, and it's a very fast, negative development. The council said it was destructive to social morality. Yes, I can sign that. It's so to those degrees destructive of social morality that I think it's much bigger than what this hall is aware of. The council said that she is looking forward to working together, but the first bid then is that you work together on the real basis that is out – and it is, in my opinion, serious as it is. What's happening is that someone makes a lot of money on this development, in addition to paying taxes on what's white, it has to pay VAT on it. Then, according to what is white, one will also pay a decent salary for the job being done. The latter changes in a dramatic negative direction, where one is constantly experiencing that work is being done at a price far below that for which one can live with the Norwegian level of costs. That's why this is incredibly demanding. It is demanding as a result of changes in the labour market. Those who emigrate to Norway have reasonably tidy conditions, those who work in Norway on shorter contracts, have more problems, and those who have the most problems are those who are employed in foreign enterprises in Norway, and where we have very little overview of the real economic and labour situation. We have a market economy in Norway where there is competition. I have said this earlier in debate with the Council of State, a real competition is a state product. If the State does not facilitate competition, it no longer becomes a real competition, and that is what is now developing, how serious employers see one being out of competition by companies that are in a completely different game. So the situation is incredibly demanding. The EEA Agreement is a maritime contributor to this, and I will get a little closer to that. The government can do something. I am because it is an action plan, but in an action plan, a diagnosis must be made, that is the first commandment: Why does it develop? So one can go on the measures. Within e.g. the public sector is the public purchaser of construction services for many tens of billions. There is no unreasonable requirement for the public to require that there be a maximum number of subcontractors in order to make the contracts more transparent. That's one question. In the housing and cabin sector, it is obvious that we have the largest black market in the private sector. It should not be impossible to introduce an optional system of accounting for housing and cabins, where one undertakes to be for a certain period. Then you can spend the cost of getting an income supplement and thereby get it into – that is, it becomes economically profitable for the individual owner of the cabin and the owner of the dwelling to register. We could take the example of transport. I have sent questions to the Council of State if the Council of State can provide an overview of which non-resident transport companies were registered in the VAT register on 1 January 2014. The Council of States can't give that. There is an area that one has to go into now to see how one can control compliance with the registration obligation and payment of VAT. Finally, I want to say that the naivety that is in this area, we now have to put away. We need to put away ideological dogmatism and take an educational journey around Norway, visit workplaces and see how it works, see who serves it, see what needs to be done – no matter what our view of the great views of the EEA Agreement – in order to get a development that does not undermine labour and social morality by this now evolving filth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1471	Economic crime, undeclared work and social dumping are so serious that it threatens well-being, said the Council of State. I fully agree with that. This is a much larger and much more destructive theme than when we discuss Norway's future and it sounds like when people get dissatisfaction when they're sick, that's the biggest problem we've got. It's not, this is one of the biggest problems we have, next to the climate problems. That is what the representative, Mr Hagesetter, told me about, as I have also experienced. When people like me are asked, they all ask if they should have a bill or not. It says a little bit about the scale. It's about tax evasion, and it's about all the way down to human smuggling and serious human rights violations, where veritable people are being exploited at the most. That's what happens in our country too. This is a big question, and it is about action in very many areas. But the main thing is that we have to dry down saying that this is a big problem, and that it's both about what the authorities do and how we control it, and about how we talk about it and work on it at the level of attitudes. Because that's how the healer is as good as the stealer. It is not that it is possible to sell a lot of black work if no buyer. It's like if it's too cheap, there's something wrong. It has been shown in contracts like large state agencies that Defence Building has entered into, as even an amateur that I could see was too cheap. And they didn't give up until they were convicted. It has something to do with the whole system we're rigging, not just having to focus on price, but we have to be willing to see what's really below. Then you have to be competent to do that, and that means that you also need to strengthen the public appliances, such as the public sector. shall purchase. Then, as the representative Lundtigen said, we have to put in place a ceiling on subcontracting prices, so that it is possible to control this. And then we have to be jointly and severally responsible for the contracting entity, so that if the contracting entity buys something you obviously need to understand is social dumping, you're left with the bill. This is about money. It's a crazy lot of money to make. It's not so much to earn by avoiding taxes, but it's a lot of money to earn by underpaying people in the most serious way, and not taking security seriously. Security costs a lot of money, and if you don't take care of it, you can make a lot of money. We need to take action on that. Then I am glad that the Right Party and the Advance Party have stopped saying that they should remove the important measures against social dumping that we got in place when we were in government. But there is a need for much stronger measures than those we already have today. And so, the trade union movement is the most important co-player and the cheapest watchbitch anyone can have. Therefore, I would encourage the Council of State and the Government to look with other eyes on the trade movement and to join in strengthening it. Because when the trade union movement is strong, workers are organized, have the transparency and the ability to report things that they see impossible can be in line with laws and regulations, or the exploitation of people, we have the opportunity to get this to life in a much better way. Then it's also important to make sure that there are regular jobs, that we need less rent, that we need a more organised working life. So the government has a great responsibility to contribute to it, and not to speak as I sometimes think they do, that the trade union movement is kind of a problem, and that the trade union movement should not have access rights, for example. in contracts at a place of work. This is absolutely necessary – if you are to be able to reveal work crime, you have to do it. Finally, money laundering and tax evasion are often carried out through tax havens and in an international market. Some of the companies within the Norwegian market, which have fine logos and names and buy services from the public, are located in tax havens just to avoid the fissure layer. They would like to have the suction pipe in our community box to take out the money, but they do not intend to contribute to the fissure layer seam. They're in a tax haven, and it's impossible to control them. This is one of the main reasons why SV is opposed to privatisation and competitive outsourcing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1491	First, thank you to the interpellant, who has addressed a very important topic. It appears that the use of black services is increasing as Norwegians expand their cabins and homes. The extent of rehabilitation is probably greater than ever, and the use of black labour seems to be the same. This is primarily a matter of opinion, but it is a matter that has far more serious consequences. It is a mine under the welfare state, and we see that the tax evasion is estimated to be about 150 B.C.E. kr. If attitudes are distorted, the most advanced control regime will also be reduced. But it is very important that we have a control system that works well. The problem today is that controls are subject to different departments and have different social objectives to weigh and assess. This is why it is so important that proper interaction between police and control bodies is established at regional level. What is perhaps even more important is actually to make the buyer responsible. The Supreme Court has held that contributing to the use of black services through the purchase of black services may result in an unconditional response through the judicial system. The Minister referred to the Action Plan on Economic Crime. It is otherwise very good – it should be done by the previous government. However, several of the measures mentioned there are, in fact, more ministries required to follow up. We know that if several departments get the responsibility to follow up one thing at a time, there's a danger that relationships can do this between two chairs. Several of the actions contained in that action plan are the responsibility of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance to follow up. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice should look closely at whether they have actually followed up. Another issue that is important in this issue is the practice of professional secrecy. The obligation of professional secrecy and its practice is enshrined in several laws: the Administrative Act and a number of specific laws. In sum, this legislation is so difficult to deal with and practice that it could lead to those who are going to practice it on a daily basis, perhaps laying down themselves on a safe side and not exploiting the possibilities that actually exist in the law today. The problem is that the black economy goes hand in hand with the white economy – it cultivates economic crime, social dumping and tax evasion. If society is to be able to meet this, society must meet it on a broad front, through a strong change of mind, and not least through a state capable of pairing its own bones. We know that the state can quickly be segmented and have problems achieving its overall objectives, when they are to be met on a more individual basis in the state apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1506	I would like to thank you for a good debate, with many dedicated posts and some personal experience of some of the representatives, in terms of the labour market and not least the black part of it. This indicates that this is a certain level of the matter we are discussing. I think it is very positive that it is really a co-ordinated growth that has given the government full support to stand on the throttle here and ensure that the measures that can be taken are implemented. But, like Nordby Lunde's representative, that we're doing what's right and working, is the main point. I brought up some suggestions in my post. The councils reiterated that she was sitting and taking note of everything that came of good suggestions during the debate, so I am not going to repeat them. I have also realized that there has been quite a broad dissension about the areas that public can do something about, as a regulator, but also as an actor. My point is, here we are both. We have to provide for legislation that defends the black economy, but we are also an actor who can impose conditions. This is where I hope the government knows its visitation time. Then there's this with the labour market, which several of the speakers, and also I, were in on. Yes, we have challenges in getting a deregulated labour market in immigration from, among other things. the EEA territory. But let's not forget that the problem of black work was also here before that. If we're going to talk about the general acceptance for black work, I'm not so sure it was smaller before. Maybe it was more acceptable before? But then you didn't have the competition from others, and it might not have been so important for the actors to talk about it as it has fortunately become now. We're just going to use that as a common impulse to do the right thing – as legislators and as a public actor. I wish the Council of State luck, and I think that both she and other colleagues – for this is a matter of many areas – will be met with questions about how the follow-up goes on the specific issues that have been up here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1519	I think this debate shows the complexity of what this issue is really about, because it ranges from the individual's morals to serious, organised crime. It is a fairly broad spectrum, calling for a very wide range of instruments. It is true that what we can do is relate to regulations, regulations, penalties and penalties, and how we set the level of taxes and charges, to mention something. What we can't easily regulate ourselves out of is what the individual has in terms of buying black services. That's quite right, as was said in the debate – should someone be able to sell black work, it's because someone actually buys it. That's the one side of the black economy, which some people might think is the innocent. I don't think black work in any form is innocent, because that means you don't want to participate in community commitments. The fact that you leave to pay taxes and taxes means that others have to bear the burden. I believe that even if you want a lower level of taxation, you cannot regulate it yourself. One has to deal with what is always the law in force in the different tax areas. I believe this debate shows how demanding the subject is. But I also believe that we have had five action plans from 1992 to today, and that the problem, despite the continuing increase, shows that we may not have done well enough with the instruments, or have sufficiently taken over some of the growing organised crime that really comes in and is helping to reinforce the challenges we are now facing. The representative Andersen tried to create the impression that the government parties have now stopped being anti-social dumping. I don't remember being there. I rather believe on the contrary that both the two government parties have joined quite a number of measures against social dumping, and as far as I know, there have been unanimous decisions by the Stortinget. So I think that's a derailment. I believe it is also a derailment to make this a debate on temporary employment. What is important, on the other hand, is that we continue to do the good work I feel the Storting is working together, to launch the good ideas, so that we can follow them up properly and put them into life, so that we can fight more quickly a social development that we don't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1530	So the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1544	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1553	Today is historic for Helgeland: Finally, large parts of the E6 on Helgeland will have a standard lift. There has been a long time to get an upgrade of E6 through Helgeland. I myself, as former rapporteur in Hemnes, have been involved in drawing up a proposal which was almost successful in 2004, but it was voted down because of the proposal for funding. So it was going to go over ten years before we got enough consensus on Helgeland to put in place a road package for E6 through Helgeland. E6 Korgen–Bolna is one of three sections of the Helgeland Road Package. We need to invest 5.2 billion. kr in new and upgraded E6 on a distance of approximately 260 km. E6 is the most important link between North Norway and South Norway. In addition, the E6 is the main year of ferries through Helgeland. The road is important for the industry in the area, both for the farming industry, for the fishing industry, for the oil industry and for the tourism industry. Today, we are going to make a decision on the route from Korgen to Bolna, which is up towards the Salt Mountain, which is the northernmost stretch, but it is as a prerequisite for the agreement between the municipalities and the county municipality to correct the whole stretch by 2020. So it's urgent to start with the other two sections as well. On the route Korgen-Bolna, investment is to be made for SEK 1.9 billion. kr on a distance of approximately 125 km. Of this, 19.5 pst is. financed by tolls. E6 Helgeland has consistently poor standards and is characterised by decay, resulting in poor accessibility and road safety. About 140 km of the distance through Helgeland is narrower than 7.5 metres. Long distances are actually so narrow that they don't have a yellow middle stripe, and seven bridges are less than 7 meters wide. This creates bottlenecks and dangerous situations. E6 Helgeland is also a major accident victim. The range we are about to deal with today has suffered 154 personal injury accidents between 2003 and 2012, killing a total of five people on this route. This will also be the first route on E6 to be partly toll-financed in North Norway. On this route there will be two toll stations – one between Hemnes and Mo in Rana and one north of Mo in Rana. The allocation to the highways in North Norway has increased from 6.6 billion. kr in the previous four-year period to over l5 billion. kr during this four-year period. This shows that North Norway too will have a significant increase in road traffic, in line with adopted NTP. This is the result of the acceptance of self-financing in order to get both faster development and more roads. What is also exciting about the Helgeland Road Package is that this is a pilot for a so-called road development contract of up to 15 years, i.e. the launch of tenders for both construction, maintenance and operation, while traditional funding is provided, i.e.: that the financing is not entered into the contract. The toll ratio has been reduced by 300 million. Compared to the local policy decisions for this route. This has given a reduced rate at toll stations of 4 kr per passage for light vehicles. In addition, it has reduced from three to two toll stations on this section. This has created high non-discrimination expectations for the other two sections of the Helgeland, E6 Helgeland South and E6 Brattås-Lien Road Package, and the Committee expects a similar extension to that of the Helgeland North. The Committee is in favour of a reduced share of tolls, but I believe it is a weakness that we have not clarified how to finance this, assuming that this does not go beyond the whole of the project or beyond other projects during the NTP period. The completion of the whole E6 Helgeland by 2020 has been foreseen by the State Road Service. When there was a delay at the start of this project, the Minister of Transport was clear that this should not go beyond the date of completion. I therefore assume that you are working on a completion for the entire Helgeland road package as planned in 2020 and for the Korgen-Bolna section in 2018. At the end of June, the Minister shall head for E6. Then he will pass E6 Helgeland and see what a bad constitution this route is in. Finally, I hope that the government will come to Stortinget with the other two sections as soon as possible, so that we can get them treated and start upgrading both in northern Greece, in central Greece and in southern Greece during 2014/2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1589	E6 between Korgen and Bolna is the first of three construction steps on E6 in Helgeland, also called E6 Helgeland North. The project is part of a comprehensive development package from the Nord-Trøndelag border to Bolna at a total cost of 5.2 billion. kr. E6 Helgeland North has a total cost framework of 1.8 billion. kr, measured in 2014 kr, and shall be financed by State resources and tolls. In October 2013, the government of Stoltenberg presented a proposition that meant that E6 Helgeland North would be financed by 63 pst. State resources and 37 pst. tolls. The right-wing Party Government wanted to re-examine the project, inter alia: to assess whether there was a basis for changing the share of tolls in the project – as a follow-up to the government platform, which determines that toll rates in new road projects will be reduced. The consequence of this review is what we have for treatment today. Following an overall assessment, the government has proposed to increase the State framework by 300 million. kr compared to what the previous government presented. This means that the state's share accounts for approx. 80 pst. and the toll ratio approx. 20 pst. At the same time, a reduction in toll rates of 20 pst has been envisaged. and 27 pst. in the two toll stations. The number of toll stations on the route has been reduced from three to two in comparison with local policy decisions. All of this saves a total of 110 million in operation and funding. kr. In the government's proposal, a new contract strategy has been envisaged. This means that the expansion of the ten sections of the project and most of the operation and maintenance will be brought to the fore in a total competition. In this way, the responsible contractor will be able to see investment and operation and maintenance together. Smart investment solutions can deliver saved operating and maintenance costs and thus better total solutions. These are some of the benefits that have also been made visible through public–private cooperation and that we look forward to testing in this project as well. E6 Helgeland North is the first construction step to expand E6 in Helgeland to a good and uniform standard. The adjustments made by the government reduce the toll burden in line with the leadership of the government platform and reduce the load, especially for those who often use the road. I think we can establish that it was possible to spend a little extra time on a new assessment of this project, when we see that the result has become a lower toll share and thus a reduced load both for commuters and for transit traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1604	The road development of E6 Helgeland was promoted by the previous government, but was pulled before Christmas and is now being promoted again in revised and improved editions. I am glad that the government spent a few months working. This shows that the government is charging both on the road, on lower taxes and on North Norway. I notice that the Workers' Party was running a political game in the media, where they complained that the government would take time to improve the matter. On the other hand, the government chose to find a solution that reduced the level of tolls, removed a toll station and made sure that the road was properly built. The government's work has saved the people of Helgeland for well over 300 million. kr in tolls. I find that before Christmas the Labour Party thought it was unnecessary extra work. I think the people disagree. I am pleased that the government has shown a willingness to bet on the E6, both in this case and by accelerating the design of other sections. E6 is the main transport year for road transport in North Norway and Helgeland and has a relatively large share of heavy traffic, almost 20 pst. E6 in Helgeland is at risk of accident, has a bad standard and is characterised by decay. It is therefore important to start developing rapidly, both for road safety reasons and because new and better roads remove bottlenecks, provide better outcomes and a good socio-economic benefit. It is important to remember that in this project we choose to include a long-term maintenance contract in the context of the development contract. This is likely to provide a good, long-term solution, as we better get the life-cycle costs of the project. Then we can clearly see the benefit of investing in a little robust solutions during the construction period, because it can be absorbed through reduced maintenance costs during the operational period. This is good, and I hope that the government will continue to work in that direction. In Stortinget, the Progress Party has fought many times against the widespread use of tolls by the majority of the population as an additional tax on the population. We've lost all of them. In the government, on the other hand, we have started to reduce the toll share, and this concrete case shows how the Progress Party is now influencing and winning. Here the government has increased the state contribution by 300 million. kr, and the number of tolling stations will be reduced according to the original proposal which was ready for treatment from the red-green. At the two remaining toll points, the tariffs are reduced by 27 pst, respectively. and 20 pst., which will be noticed for the individual driver. In addition, we will gain further when the government's announced bomb reform is implemented, both by cutting administrative costs and in financing and interest costs. I'm proud of what the Progress Party has done with our 16.3 pst. digestion. The party of progress in government is getting more and less toll. We in the Progress Party are looking forward to the project starting this fall, and we are pleased that the project will be completed in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1623	The Christian People's Party is pleased to be able to join in and give its support with all the other parties in the Stortinget today to an important and long-lasting road project in Northernland. This road project is, as has already been said, part of an overall development package provided that it is completed in three parts. It is E6 Helgeland North, Helgeland South and Brattås-Lien. The proposal involves an increased State envelope of 300 million. Compared with the proposal put forward by the government of Stoltenberg in October 2013. That means 80,5 pst. State resources and 19.5 pst. tolls. Although the government has announced a job aimed at increasing the efficiency of toll collection through the creation of fewer companies, this could hardly in itself constitute a 300 million profit. kr in a project like this – an amount equal to the increased state resources. It is therefore important for the government to have a good and clear communication with the Stortinget on how the impact of a lower toll ratio than the NTP 2014-2023 will be implemented in the future in the various road projects. This project also implements an alternative contract strategy. On our side, we are very positive about implementing new, alternative ways of organising this work, which can facilitate the effective implementation of new road projects. We would therefore like to stress the importance of a thorough evaluation of the experience gained in this project and to be involved in improving the efficiency of road development in our country in general. We believe in models – which we also seem to experience with the OPS models – that can give the road builder incentives to find even better quality solutions. E6 in Helgeland has a consistently low standard and is characterised by a major decline, which is not least a basis for traffic accidents and poor performance. We welcome the project E6 Korgen-Bolna and refer you to the rapporteur's excellent presentation of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1634	This is a day that I have longed for a long time. Things take time – not only has it taken time in the last phase, but it has taken time throughout the whole phase. There has been a disagreement about trasé elections, there has been a disagreement about toll financing, there has been a rematch, and it has been marked by a long process. So finally, we're going to make a decision that concerns E6 Helgeland. The road is not only important for us who live in Helgeland, but it is important for the transport between North Norway and South Norway, it is important for the transit traffic, and it is also important for those of us who commute, and who commute a lot. It's an accident, not only the distance we decide on now, but also the other two parts, which are part of the whole project. The north is now coming, and therefore it is all the more important that E6 south and Brattås-Lien come quickly, so that it is part of the total and what the municipalities have decided on. It was inside the NTP we're in now, that we were going to run a test of road development contracts on this route. It was a matter that we were very eager to get tested. Now we get to test it out how it works. I have expectations that it will be followed up with a good evaluation, so that useful experience can be gained in other projects as well. I think it'll be interesting to see. As I said, it's probably like both the previous government and today's government wanted to test this out right here. Then it's a weakness that there's no evidence of how reduced toll percentages are to be financed. There is uncertainty about whether the other two couples are affected or there are other projects that need to bleed for it. That's why, like the previous speaker, I ask the government to explain to the Storting how to think about it in the continuation, not only in terms of this project, but actually also in terms of other types of projects. If it is done in one place, the same treatment is expected in the rest, and it becomes uncertain whether it is one's own state and the projects contained in the transport plan, which are burdened by it, or whether it is financed entirely beyond the state budget. But all in all, it's a very good day. I refer to what the rapporteur has said and explained in a good way, and I am pleased that, despite a long process, we are in the target of the first section.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1647	I am very pleased that the Stortinget today seems to make a very good decision to get the project started on Helgeland. This is a long distance, about 25 to 26 miles, which we now start to repair the first part of, and it's high time. It is a stretch characterised by poor standards, which is characterised by partial maturity, and it is absolutely essential both to repair and to renew this path. We also see that when this is done, one could cut the travel time just on this distance by between 11 and 13 minutes. This means that you get an advantage for this region of residence and work – people will simply spend less time in the car to get where they are going – and at the same time it becomes less environmental impact and a more comfortable journey for those who travel there. In this way, this government's offensive transport policy reflects where we are going to implement and over-comply with the national transport plan. Projects in the national transport plan were largely agreed on, but we disagreed on the pace of implementation. We're increasing the pace. We are accelerating both road and rail projects. We're doing it with lower toll rates, and we're doing it by looking at new ways of getting better organisation. I am very pleased that the previous government also began experimenting with how one could organize it differently. We're going to make sure that's a success. So this distance, which is 12 and a half miles, is going to be a form of contract in which we both expand and commit ourselves to maintenance. It was quite a discussion in the previous period. It was part of the previous government that said that one would not commit to maintenance in the future. Now a total big deal agrees on this, and I'm very happy about that. And then it's the toll percentage, which many people have picked up. I can reassure you that the government platform says that we should both build more roads and have less tolls. Reduced toll rates in Helgeland North do not mean, as some suggest here, fewer road projects elsewhere. This is about being able to prioritise better the money we manage on behalf of the taxpayers. Then we're going to get both a more path and a lower tax rate through what's toll. Here we can reduce the toll by 300 million. kr. I'm very glad that all the parties support it, despite the fact that one had different views less than a year ago. But it saves the drivers/inhabitants for over 410 million. kr. Not only do the drivers not pay the $300 million in debt, but they save $70 million. kr in interest expenses, and they save 40 million. kr in operation and investment by setting up this toll station. So here it's a win. Although some of this is a re-priority of money in the state budget, the population is getting better overall. It's important to get involved when some people say that you're just moving money. No, you're actually saving money. So one thing is that you get rid of the toll station. The second is that you reduce the fares on the other two. This means that businesses and the inhabitants of this region get real tax relief. They get more money to route between their hands. I think that's good for both the people and the business community. Then we get to live with that some parties are critical of this, and that some parties as we worked out a solution, thought it was unnecessary for the government to spend time on it. They get to answer to their voters why they would have had more tolls. I'm very happy with the solution we've found. Then we will also work to bring about a toll reform. We have notified this in a case that is being treated in Stortinget, where we can obtain further savings by refinancing things and getting an interest-rate compensation scheme in place. It'll come to the top of what's been here. We're still working on the entire Helgeland section. As mentioned by the case rapporteur, I and my political colleagues in the Ministry of Transport will have the pleasure of driving the whole E6 during the summer. Then we're also going to travel this distance. We're going to notice not only the project we're talking about now, but both south and north of this, that the road system probably isn't as good as it should be, and that the need for investment is really big, and not just investments, but also maintenance. Therefore, it is important that we spend money building better roads, but also on maintaining what we have, where it is initially good enough, but not maintained. Therefore, I can rest assured that we also work hard with both Helgeland South and Brattås-Lien to get them promoted for Stortinget as quickly as possible. But there is work that needs to be done on the regulatory plan page and that kind of thing. It requires local work. Today we get to enjoy the decisions that are being made. So at least we can say, now we're on!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1676	In the road package that we are about to adopt today, self-financing has been reduced, as I understand it, by a net of 300 million. kr by reducing from three to two stations and lowering the rates. This is in itself good for the drivers on this route, but not necessarily good for the road development overall. This means that alternative funding needs to be found for these millions, which will go beyond other projects, or you have to raise fresh funds. If fresh funds are raised, this could have been used for new road projects rather than for reducing those already adopted. It is also true that the Korgen-Bolna is one of the three sections mentioned, and there are, as I said, expectations that the other two will be treated in the same way. By reducing tolls on one of three, both the Committee and the municipality are expected to do so on the other two routes. That's fast, that doesn't mean it's just 300 million. kr, but maybe three times three hundred million. How will the Minister finance these cuts in tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1683	It's a little interesting to get such a question from a party that's critical every time the government proposes lower tolls, but at the same time requires that toll cut one place to give toll cut anywhere else. Then I encourage the Workers' Party to agree with themselves if they want lower tolls, and in that case it strongly supports it, or if they are against it, and in that case also argues for it. Now one of them wrote it down a little bit. The question that was raised, I actually mentioned in my article. I pointed out that the toll debt was reduced by 300 million. kr through government appropriations. But it saves the drivers and the inhabitants of the region not only for the $300 million, but for $40 million. kr in operation and investment in order to operate the toll station that is shut down and a saving of 70 million. NOK in interest expenditure by reducing the debt. The savings here are 410 million. kr based on an allocation of 300 million. kr. It's actually a pretty good investment on behalf of the taxpayers as well. Then we have said that the appropriations for road construction should be increased. We did that last year. That means you get both more way and less tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1693	Now the minister did not fully answer my question. What was my question was whether you could expect equal treatment for the other two projects. The reason for my question is that this has been treated as a complete package for Helgeland, and then the minister will understand that there are expectations in the other municipalities, who have not been treated their two projects for the time being, of being treated in the same way. Because here you have kind of populistly gone on one route and reduced tolls, without saying anything about how to finance the rest, and not saying anything about this for the other two projects. Then my follow-up question is: can you expect when you get the other two sub-projects to be treated in the same way as for the E6 Helgeland North?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1700	It's a little weird first to get the criticism that one reduces tolls, because one is afraid that there will be less road elsewhere, while one demands toll cuts on other road sections. The working party now has to decide whether they want less tolls, or what kind of logic they're going to use. The right-wing Party government has shown that we allocate more money and reduce the share of tolls. So one gets both parts, as this government promised: more roads and less tolls. I hope the Workers' Party supports it. Then we're going to make sure when we present the next sections of the road, that it's going to be handled in a good way. I remember that this road section had initially a toll ratio of 36 pst, much higher than the other two road sections. Now you get down to what's going to be a proportionally equal treatment for everyone. But we will continue to work intensively to bring down the toll percentage. This will include, inter alia: toll reform. Based on the Labour Party's questions here, I assume they will support the toll reform that the government is now notifying. This means that both the new projects and other road projects in Norway reduce the share of tolls. I'm glad of the support!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1709	So far, the Council of State was a little bit concerned with what I was going to ask about, which goes on when we can expect the other two part thoroughfare to come up with a decision. It is important, as has been said, because it is a whole project, that there is a funding basis for a whole project, and that there is not too long between the different decisions in the case. Can the Council of State be a little more clear when the Storting can expect them to be treated?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1714	Thank you for the question. We are committed to realizing this as soon as possible, but what makes me unable to give an exact time is also that we have to wait for regulation plans locally. But I hope we can get this into 2015, maybe 2016. It's kind of dependent on how things happen locally. It is also a little dependent on how the bulk of the population allocates money for road use, simply. Last autumn's budget treatment showed that one found 1.5 billion. more for the purposes of the new government and partners, the Christian People's Party and the Left, both for highways and highways. This suggests that one is willing to give high priority to road purposes. In that case, that is a good starting point. But 2015, hopefully, provided that one gets to the local anchoring through regulation plans and stuff like that – maybe 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1721	The last answer from the Council of State makes me have a follow-up question. It is referred to both in the case and in the post to the Council of State that the background to waiting for the road package south and the other is that you have to have the control plans clear locally. It's a little strange that you use this argument when you're done with the job locally. Last night I was talking to the rapporteur in Grane, a municipality that covers a large part of this stretch, and he says that everything is clear locally. My question to the Minister is then, when he points out that the plans are not clear, whether he can elaborate on this: Is it the Road Administration internally that cannot complete its plans, or is it still that there are things that are not clear with the relevant municipalities, where one has to expand further, that is. Weaving and Grane?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1728	We're talking about long sections of the road. That is why this case is dealt with in the department of the Road Administration. I also thought the Working Party was familiar with how the system worked. We have done the checks we are going to do, and we have been told that there is still work to be done locally. As soon as it is done, we will politically begin to deal with the matter in the department. My objective – and we have managed to live up to that – is that we should not politically delay any matter in the government. Sometimes decisions are lacking locally. We also look at the E39 through the municipality of Os, where a few decisions are missing in the county of Hordaland, which means that we have not been brought forward for Stortinget. But we're very ready to do it as soon as the decisions are made, and the details are clarified in the Road Administration after the decisions have been made. We have the goal of getting things away quickly, and so far we deliver well. Then we can check again against local municipalities if they have information that we haven't yet received, because we want to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1739	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1744	First, I want to congratulate Nordland on an important road project. So: Today, something happens that I never thought we were going to experience in this room, that we get a unanimous decision in a toll case – and I stress ‘unanimous decision’ – with the votes of the Progress Party. In the last period, I was in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and in every context, wherever we were, in internal and external meetings, on committee missions around the country, in all debates in the media, the message from the representatives of the Progress Party was the same: if they came to power, it would end all tolls. And not only that, we also heard a lot about how bad it was with one-off taxes and fuel taxes. But tolling was the most important thing — more important than health, school and care for the elderly. It was so important that Terje Søviknes was denied a seat in the central government because he supported the use of tolls to speed up the local road construction in Os. Under the red-green government, we dealt with a lot of road cases, and in every single debate – every single one – we were former Plumbing Representative Bård Hoksrud, now State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport, on this pulpit and cried out very loud and very clearly that demanding tolls is highway robbery, and that the government is peeling and driving the motorists. And if I don't remember completely wrong, then there was also that great representative, now the Council of State, Solvik-Olsen, sailing into the hall at the end of many road debates just to emphasize the seriousness of Hoksrud's message. Now the pipe has a different sound. In this case, it is now boasted that the state framework will be increased, and the representative Steffensen and the State Council were proud of what the Progress Party has achieved. But according to the party's own rhetoric, no matter how large the sum is, and who's running it. In the election campaign last year, the Progress Party, regardless of the election results, guaranteed that the bombs would be removed, and no new ones would be set up. There was no reservation for the shutdown at the time of the option. But we've heard a lot about it, even today, that because they only got a riot of 16.3 p.m., they unfortunately had to jump from the promises they gave to the voters. It must be allowed to ask how much percent the Progress Party thinks they have to have in order to fulfill their promises. In the election campaign, I met the Progress Party in many debates. I also met many of their voters, and as I understood it, they prided themselves on the Advance Party and believed in them, and the undersigned was ridiculed when I tried to tell that in the Workers' Party we did not love toll stations either, but that there was a way to build roads faster on without going beyond the Norwegian economy, employment and price. That time the answer was that it was just using oil money, and that it was we who were a little stupid who kind of didn't get better. Now we are talking about action, and we are talking about offensive social policy. So this is road project No. 4 since they came to power. There's probably someone who's been kept too fooled by this party in these kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1761	This must be a day of joy, not only for the people of Helgeland, but for all those who travel along the E6 through the Northland. E6 through Northland is the main trajectory from north to south, where large quantities of goods are transported every day, both roads. The quality of E6 through the North is not close to what is expected of a highway, it has a low standard and is strongly characterised by decay. When the government withdrew the proposal to build the route Korgen-Bolna, it was a victory for the Right on Helgeland. But it's not just a victory for the Right on Helgeland, it's a victory for the people who live and work in Helgeland. Hemnes, one of the municipalities that was heavily hit by the previous proposal, where the toll percentage was much larger, is the neighbouring municipality of Rana. Hemnes is a commuter municipality with over 25 pst. of the employed commuter out of the municipality, and the vast majority to Mo in Rana. Here, an agreement among former workers' party rapporteurs claimed an additional cost for the toll station, despite the fact that only a few kilometres of new road was to be built in this municipality, as well as ever- and cycle routes. The background to the reaction from the municipality of Hemnes, saying no to the big toll project, was that there was a disproportionate burden on a small group of people who depend on this road to get to and from work every single day. 73 pst. the costs of the route between Mo i Rana and Hemnes were to be financed by tolls from those passing this toll station, including commuters between Hemnes and Rana, who got back only a few kilometres of new road for their toll contribution. This contrasts with the toll share for the total project, which was originally to be covered by 37 pst. The traffic base for transit traffic on E6 Helgeland is too low for toll financing to be a good way of financing. This was also highlighted in the report by the Dovre Group, which considered that funding for the construction of the road section with tolls was socially unprofitable. The cost of building and operating toll services is disproportionate compared to the total project. And it's probably that paradox that makes the residents of Helgeland critical of toll financing for such traffic trails. Therefore, it was gratifying that the Right-Fremskritslot government chose to draw the proposition last autumn, just to look at the possibility of better state funding. Not least, it is gratifying that this additional round contributed to the state going in and covering more of the costs, with the result that the toll ratio drops to 16 pst. for the whole project, and the burden on the residents of Helgeland is reduced. Then it was worth taking this extra round, and the critical voices that said that the project was delayed should now stop and rejoice over a good journey promise for Helgeland. Then, together, we get to lift new transport projects, so that Helgeland takes out the growth potential that lies there – because lack of good infrastructure solutions poses obstacles to exploiting this potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1782	Since I was dragged into the debate again in my role as a former opposition politician, I think it was okay to put things in perspective. Because I also experience something big now. I feel that for the first time the Progress Party has got the Labour Party, which is twice as large as us, to vote against proposals which they themselves have promoted, just because the Advance Party and the Right are now in government. Because as late as February this year, the Workers’ Party believed that there had to be three toll stations on this road and that there had to be bomb charges of $20, 25 and 40 kroner at these stations in order for this project to work. But because the Advance Party and the Right are now in government, the Workers' Party is turning – not because they must, because they are in opposition and can vote freely, as they will, but because they actually believe that the policies of the Advance Party and the Right are better than those they themselves promoted. In the opposition, a party can stand for exactly the policy that it itself believes is right. That's what the Right Party did. The advance party is against tolls. The right-wing opinion is that it is okay in some cases, but will have lower tariffs than the Workers' Party wants. But the Labour Party therefore chooses to support the government's policy, remove the toll stations and reduce the tariffs because it is better – not because they have to be involved in a settlement, as it is in government, where we compromise, but because they actually, of free will, think it's better. That's why the post from the speaker for two laps of the page gets a little bit weird, because this is actually putting things in a little bit of a wrong perspective. Over 30 pst. had the Workers' Party in disintegration. They are now running away from proposals which they themselves have promoted, revised by the Progress Party and the Right. The progress point had 16.3 pst. We make compromises to get through. We're actually starting to win. Then I am very pleased to be the Minister of Transport for a government that finds room for both building a faster and better road, and that has a lower toll share. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party, when they are opposition and can operate what they really think is right, abandons their own policies and supports government policies. It shows that one should be patient next time the government says that we need a few more weeks to find a better solution than what the red-green had put into its national transport plan, because it benefits the inhabitants more. But the Workers' Party would like to go up to Helgeland and protest that the drivers up there are saving 410 million. kr or more in tolls, and explain it to its voters. I wish them luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1793	I think the Minister of Transport would have a bigger explanation problem if he went to Helgeland, with regard to what was going out loud and promised in the election campaign. I have the election posters where it says what you went out and said in the election campaign on Helgeland, dear Minister of Transport. It says no tolls. I also have comments from the Right-wing representatives, who stand on Helgeland close before the election campaign interview, and where there is no toll. Then you go to the pulpit today and you're brilliantly satisfied and have your nose pointed to the Workers' Party. No, those who have reason to be least satisfied today are the Advance Party and the Right, given what they have gone out and promised locally. It's those who get the big challenges when they go to Helgeland and explain this. The working party has not changed the course at all. We're stuck on our NTP. As far as the proposal at present is concerned, it seems that there is an overwhelming reduction. But that's not it. First of all, as far as the bomb is concerned, you have to deal with the real numbers. The fee for passing the boom between Mo in Rana and Mo was NOK 15. It's now reduced to $11. 4 kroner in reduction minus the discount is NOK 3.60 per pass. I don't think that's what matters. I think the most important thing for those who live in Helgeland is to get rusted up this way for 5.2 billion. kr. That was the background for creating a package that was to be distributed this way. The fee for the second bomb was not 40 kroner. It was $20. Now it's going to be reduced to 16 dollars. So you get to relate to the facts. In any case, however, there is a greater problem of explanation in the Progress Party and the Right in view of toll rates. The expectations here with respect to the other two parts are great. I have to say that I expect Helgeland to take note of the reply from the Minister in the line change here, where he was at least – if you're nice to him – very unclear when it came to expecting the other two packages to the Stortinget. At least it is a prerequisite that this should be treated as a complete package. It's clear that it's going on for a long time, it's not going to be perceived like that. So there are great expectations that that package will arrive at Stortinget in the autumn, and that you can start up as expected in 2015, and that will be a completion on the other two packages in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1807	The progress party is just not to recognize. In addition, the Council of State manages to go to the pulpit and must defend the turnaround to the Progress Party by attacking the Workers' Party. That's almost impossible to believe. I also have a whole bunch of newspaper headlines. Only in my own state, it was not just promised that all toll missions would be removed, because there was no problem. In addition, it was to be developed at a staggering pace. It was to be rolled out asphalt from the first day. Only in Hedmark were several road projects promised to be completed in just a few years, projects that were not even planned. That's what you'd been saying. That is what you are also responsible for. As I say, here we are today. It's June. So this is in addition to Vossapakko, which is coming later today, the fourth project that you've managed to come with. It should have been under the red-green government. It could have been fun to hear what the Progress Party had said to it in that case. I love the road project, but the rhetoric that now comes from the Council of State, I think he can spare himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1818	It is a pleasure to witness a debate in which parties who have recently taken up government do not understand what it means to compromise. It would like to reflect that one represents a party that, in government, had a prime minister who overrun a total accumulation when it was involved, for example. biodiesel tax. Then one has clearly said that it is the strong man who is to lead. So we're going to be dealing with the bulk of the population that's in control. This means that one must compromise in a government between the Right and the Advance Party. Then a compromise must be reached with the majority in Britain and – fortunately often – with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then you don't get an impact for everything you've promised. That's what I thought was quite elementary knowledge. But if that's how all the parties are going to get through for everything they've promised in election fighting, I'm glad to see how many of the election vows of the Workers' Party they can guarantee they'll be executed in the next four years. I would like to have an estimate from the representative. It's 100 pst. of all the election vows of the Workers' Party that are now being implemented, or could it be a little less? Why doesn't it become 100 pst? This is the largest party. But what led me to the pulpit was the other two projects on Helgeland. I think it's neat that we look at here: what was inside the NTP, and what is this government delivering? So far we deliver in line with NTP, and we are accelerating a number of projects. We have accelerated work on more than twelve projects compared to when we took over less than eight months ago. We've accelerated design a number of places, planning a number of places, and we've removed tolls a number of places. When the rapporteur said that Helgeland North is the first toll project in North Norway, it would not have been with red-green policy. Then there would be a toll station in Alta. The same thing with E6: It was removed with this government. I would like to go with and remove more, but the bulk of the population doesn't want to. However, there will be fewer toll stations and lower tariffs than the previous government promised. We're on the right track. That's why I'm very happy. So we're going to do massive work to get faster. But I just want to remind the Workers' Party that in the National Transport Plan, Helgeland was not in the south of 2014. It was not specified in 2015. So giving the impression that the second party is delaying projects that you didn't even have a fixed time, is a little immoderate in the debate. I'm going to promise that the road sections we're talking about will get in place faster with today's government than the previous government did. We already showed that last autumn in the budget, where we allocated 1.5 billion. kr more to the highway and highway than provided by the previous government. It says a little bit about the change of pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1835	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1838	I also think it is a pleasure to listen to the debate. For the sake of order, it is therefore the Party of Advancement and the Right who is in government, and not the Workers' Party. But I would like to ask the Council of State: is it still such that you think you are skinning and rubbing the drivers, or has the beep now got a different sound here as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1845	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1859	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1868	The representative proposal we are now considering is promoted by the Centre Party – among others. by the representative of the Transport Committee, Janne Shelmo Nordås. It deals with a proposal related to the update of the national transport plan. The proposal has been discussed in the Transport and Communications Committee. The proposal was supported by the Workers' Party. The majority of the Transport Committee, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, want to attach the proposal to the Minutes. The background to this proposal really gives me reason to think of it as very positive from my point of view – the stand of the Right Party and the Progressive Party – because now we have a government that has great ambitions for Norwegian transport policy, and that has clearly signaled that we want to bet on transport in the years to come. The government has committed itself to overfulfilling the national transport plan, which we adopted in this Chamber for approx. A year ago. And not only that: the government wants to reduce the toll share in new road projects – without reducing the ambitions for road and rail investment. This positive, increased level of ambition with announced additions and an increased bet that the new government has announced is just some of the background to the proposal we are now considering. It is absolutely vital for the Right, the Advance Party and the new majority in Stortinget that we ensure the complete development of new road sections. For too long, road construction has been broken and divided – with start and stop and, not least, inefficient operation. If we're going to build more efficiently and rationally, we have to get away from the horse trades and the little stumps and think a little bit more long-term and holistic. That is why the document that we deal with every four years in Stortinget, the National Transport Plan, is a very thorough priority tool. It is the result of investigations, travel studies, calculations, modelling and a large number of annual works that together result in a proposal from the transport modes, which is a whole year of treatment in the Ministry of Transport before it gets here and get a very thorough treatment in the Stortinget. It has been an established practice to adopt a national transport plan at the end of each major period and to leave it open for the next four years. A change in assumptions due to up-to-date knowledge has been managed through the annual budgetary processes. It's a well-informed practice. It ensures predictability of the implementation as adopted of the projects located in the NTP. It also ensures flexibility to manage changes without triggering a comprehensive process of new grossing-up messages. The alternative to the process I referred to now, which ensures long-termity and predictability, is found in the proposal we have before us. When the Centre Party and the Labour Party wish to change this practice in such a way that amended toll shares and increased contributions to the transport budget can only be made after the submission of a new aggregate notification and after a new investigation process, it can, of course, create deferrals. I think that's strange. In addition, this would also open up in the middle of an NTP period to reopen the whole plan for re-priorities. Then, of course, our concern is that many projects are being put into play. I am therefore very pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left continue to want to ensure predictability and long-term planning of transport investments. The positive changes and additions made by the government will be given priority in the annual budgetary processes. At the same time, NTP is at the root of the overall work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1887	When the red-green government presented its national transport plan in April last year, even NHO Director Kristin Forest Lund called it a historic boost to transport. The NTP exceeded what was expected, with an increase in the frame of approximately 150 B.C.E. kr or about 50 pst. compared to the level in 2013. National Transport Plan 2014-2023 is therefore a solid and good document for Norwegian transport. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced in their Government Platform that they will be committed to the development of road and track beyond the adopted NTP. They have also signaled transport as one of their main areas of activity. It's good that there's a broad political consensus to bet massively on transportation in the next few years. What is less good is that the Stortinget is not involved in an overall priority of the transport projects in Norway. This is the theme of today's proposal for a representative. The government has committed to reduce toll rates on several projects, including: on the E6 Helgeland package, which we discussed here before, and again on the E16 between Bakn and Bjørgo. It is announced that the State will cover more of the development costs of several projects, which distorts the economic balance envisaged by NTP. It is important for Stortinget that the planning of future transport projects should not be based solely on individual projects submitted by the government. For the Storting, it is absolutely necessary for the Storting to carry out a real treatment of how the financial frameworks are to be distributed, the impact on them and any re-priorities of the financial frameworks set out in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. We are concerned that the Stortinget should be involved in an overall prioritisation of the projects. Let me therefore just say a few words in connection with the revised budget that illustrate that it is very easy to be confused by what money has been allocated to, and how this is covered in a comprehensive planning framework. In the revised national budget, the government in a press release says they're worth 250 million. kr more for five road projects. So far, everything's fine. But what is the reality here? Well, the reality is that the government has made a redeployment of previously allocated funds in 2014 for tunnel renewal – which in itself is also quite ok. But there was a rather special re-disposal practice that we discovered when the government presented the revised national budget for 2014. First, increased investment in tunnel renewal has been marketed as one of the major investments in the government’s regular budget for 2014. Afterwards, they have traveled around the country and sold in increased bets on individual projects without coverage, and then – as mentioned above – in revised to declare a large stake of 250 million. kr for national road investments. But what really happened? Well, the government has been able to market itself using the same money three times. In our view, this practice must at best be regarded as a fairly creative accounting. In any case, it underlines the need to provide the Storting with better information on changes in the financial framework of the NTP. There is a great distance between the red-green NTP and the government party alternative NTP. The Progress Party proposed an increase in the framework of 450 billion. kr, and the right proposed an increase of 20 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. The national transport plan is a central management document for transport in Norway. The transport plan has a central function for the overall priority in terms of investment and in terms of operational and maintenance measures for road, rail and maritime transport. Normally, changes in the financial follow-up to the NTP planning framework and re-priorityisation within the framework have taken place as part of the ordinary budgetary process, and we still agree that this should be the case. It is therefore necessary for the government, when presenting the 2015 budget, to provide the Storting with more detailed information on the increases, re-priorities and changes to the planning framework that have been made compared to the current NTP for 2014-2023. This is also what our proposal is in the vote. So it is that the previous debate goes far into this debate, so then the Council of State can look back. But now it is time for the Council of State to be responsible for what is going to happen in relation to the transport challenges in Norway. We also want to understand what's happening, and to be with and prioritize, determine and do the repriorities that are going to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1908	Would the representative like to comment on his proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1911	Yeah, I guess so. I'm sorry, President. I'm taking up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1916	Then the representative Eirin Sund mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1919	The red-green government has had a majority for eight years, and in many areas of the NTP there has been cross-political consensus. But we in the Progress Party have been very clear that in some areas we want structural changes that obviously have consequences. Everyone also knows that NTP has been a plan, and we've had to get funds year after year. It hasn't been long-term, it hasn't been any sign that you've got a distance in the NTP, yes, you get that distance. Actually, it hasn't been safe. Everyone also knows that the Progress Party has been a champion of its own investment fund, a road company and also of a toll reform. Then it is also natural that when we are now in position, we want to give more priority to the road, build faster roads and – not least – better roads. When one looks at the existing NTP, we'll take it to heart. But single sections of a two-and-a-half-mile stretch out into the cabin and weather, what do we do with them? Yeah, we'll put them together. We want to build completely, we want to build in the long term. There are many ways to overfill the NTP, including, for example: a stretch that is currently in the NTP – and I must also say the red-green NTP – as a two-field road. When we turn it into a four-field road, that's good. It's overfilling, making it better than what's lying there. And it's actually nonsense to raise good money after snowfalls and little forward-looking planning. The representative proposal from the members of the Central Party probably has a little backstop of district counter-city thinking. It'll be a little weird for me, because if there's something that's going on building up town and country, it's just good, safe roads that connect the districts and cities and lift up entire regions. This creates growth, creates nutrient development and improves quality for all, not least for districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1932	The centre party believes that the national transport plan has become a good planning tool. Therefore, it is important that through treatment, the Storting can carry out a real treatment of how the financial frameworks are to be distributed and the impact on them. The overall priority of projects is necessary, irrespective of how any government in place chooses to finance the various projects in the national transport plan. In the past, there has been a change in the timing of the projects, but now, at the same time, the forms and plans of funding are changing, while some of the funds are being used to eliminate tolls on roads that are already built. In the previous debate, we saw the uncertainty created by not showing how to cover the lower toll percentage. NTP is a comprehensive priority arena for investments, operations and maintenance actions in the national transport network. It is then said to over-comply with the national transport plan. No one is critical of that, but it is important to ensure that what is actually contained in the transport plan is decided on. That's what we feel is an uncertainty about what the government and the majority of the Biggest are doing right now. At the same time, single-country councils are out saying that you are e.g. shall distort investment towards public transport. It has also been said that investment should be reversed between the major cities. Well and good, but there's a complete thinking around it. That is why we in the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have wanted to establish that today's NTP must be in line with what the Stortinget has decided on, and that we ensure that the projects that are there are – adopted – and that the Stortinget is also given the opportunity to be involved in the prioritisation of funds that may go beyond what is inside today's NTP. It's not a rematch on NTP, but we want to make sure that what's inside is actually decided and prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1945	My opinion is that this proposal from the Centre Party and the Working Party reflects a somewhat unusual situation for the red-green parties. They fear that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will use so much resources and improve the transport sector so much that we will carry out many road and rail projects. They are simply afraid that there will be too much money that they do not see today where to come from. I understand the concern when what the red-greens have boasted of in the past has been that they have spent just as much money as they have promised – although there have been fewer projects than they had promised, because the projects became more expensive than planned. But we actually mean serious when we four parties say that we should prioritize infrastructure, because it's part of building society. Therefore, we need to prioritise more money and have less tolls, simply by operating the state better and by having more efficient projects. I am also very pleased that in this debate it is constantly being repeated by the Workers' Party that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left were more offensive to trade in opposition. We have shown that we are also more offensive in position than the red-green parties were – we increased the appropriations last autumn as a result of a government change. So really this isn't a problem, as the red-greens want it to. It's actually an advantage for the country. But it's usually a problem for the legacy of the previous government. Then I remember that this is not a problem either, because even if we are going to be offensive, I have to admit that I don't think we can implement ten years of plans in the national transport plan in just four years. That means that in that case we're going to overfill two and a half times in the four years. Yes, we are offensive, but so offensive I think we simply can't be. That means we have a priority list that goes over ten years, to pick out when we're going to do our work in four years. There is no reason to believe that every time we speed up a project, we will at the same time present a revision of the national transport plan. It will require an enormous amount of bureaucratic work, it will require a huge amount of resources in the Storting and a huge amount of resources in the Road Administration, the Railway Agency, the Coastal Agency, Avinor and others that contribute to the National Transport Plan. I think it keeps us doing that job once every four years. Then probably a little bit of the reality behind the proposal is what the representative Sund broke out at the end of his post: that we will also be in charge. You know what, there's actually another government now. The working party is in opposition. This means that the Workers' Party is allowed to participate in and rule in the Stortinget, and I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is voting so far for the transport proposals we are presenting, even though they are becoming more extensive than the Workers' Party itself put forward. But that's not how the Workers' Party can go into the departments and sit and rule from there. Then it is noted that lower tolls distort the balance. So it's a problem. No, it's part of meeting the electoral obligations of some of the parties here, and that's part of the compromises. But it is also true that if the Workers' Party thought this was actually a problem, you should have voted against it! But the Labour Party doesn't, because they know that would be unpopular. So far, the Labour Party criticises the same decisions that they themselves are part of forming a majority, and it doesn't quite harmonize if you think you're going to have a proper debate on transportation. There was also an argument here that if it was not in the national transport plan, then one cannot implement it by the government. Yes, it is. It is possible to re-prioritize along the way, simply because you see that it is possible to speed up a project. So the majority of the population has accelerated the planning of seven road projects, and we have accelerated the design of five road projects. In just a few weeks, we're going to complete the E18 through Westfold between Tønsberg and Sandefjord, just because the government and the bulk of the population have decided that we would. For two years it was possible under the red-green. A chosen one to do nothing. This majority wants something, and that's why we do it. I see no need to promote a new national transport plan for those reasons. Then I remind you that when the red-green government set up, actually also promoted the individual small projects in Stortinget and received appropriations, without even mentioning the project in the national transport plan. It's a little strange that they require one principle approach from today's government, while they themselves did not follow that principle. When the Softunnel, near the home of the then Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, was adopted, it was only entered into the budget without being treated as a separate proposition, without having been in the national transport plan. Thus, the Central Party should be the least of all who demand that today's government practice something that they themselves did not think was important when they crashed. That is why I am pleased that the Storting is making the decision that they are now making on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1972	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1975	Once again, if a story is repeated over and over again, it won't be right for it. I pointed out in my speech that the Council of State can look back, but the Council of State will have a great responsibility to look forward and take responsibility for it. For the Workers' Party, it is most important that we get the whole thing visible. We have to make visible what it will mean to spend community money in one place, compared to spending less money in another place. If this is about speeding up projects, or cutting tolls, it's going to be at the expense of something, and we want to make that visible. Parts of government and government party representatives now travel land and beach around and cut tolls, and they also promise new projects that are not inside the NTP. One of the examples is E39, where one is to roll out the four-field highway from Stavanger to Kristiansand. How is this to be financed, and who is to pay? Or, who's not going to get it when this is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1984	That's what we're working on every time the Storting adopts the budgets. Now we're dealing with the revised budget, and then we're giving priority -- some things we're giving priority to and some things we're depriving -- and that's where the Stortinget gets to say its whole thing. If the Workers' Party was dissatisfied with the re-priorities proposed by the government last autumn, it was only to vote against and show its alternative. But here I see that the Workers' Party is voting to reduce bombing some places, they're voting to remove tolling stations, but they still can't make it fit into a whole. Then I suggest that the Workers' Party pursue opposition policies in their entirety, instead of voting for all the good Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, to then criticise the things we propose. So I remind you that only in the last few months have the Workers' Party in opposition proposed to speed up the Tronder Railway, the Railway, the Gjøvik Railway, the Kongswinger Railway, the Four-Field Road to Eagle, and to speed up the E39. So there have been tens – yes, almost hundreds – of billions of dollars from the Workers' Party in opposition, without having submitted proposals in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e1991	What is the main point of this proposal for a representative is that we have put in place a way of dealing with the national transport plan, which we put in place in 2005 – for the first time in history. Before 2005, one in this room adopted a national transport plan, which one forgot when one went out after adopting it. The priorities were never followed up. What we now see from the government – and our fear – is: how have you intended to use the National Transport Plan as the governance document it is, and how have you intended to involve Stortinget in re-prioritizing? And not least, how do you intend to tell those who may be the victims of a redeployment of budgetary resources? For example, the representative Meling from the Right said. to the friend of the fatherland today, that she wants it to be the four-field road from Stavanger to Kristiansand, for now one is finished with E39 from Stavanger and northward. A project that is far from completed northwards is now being put to the game because one should possibly re-prioritize within the NTP. How's the Council of State going to explain it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2000	I have already explained this in several articles: we need to prioritise more money into the NTP, and that means we can implement more projects. It's a little bit of what this government and our support parties have gone to, namely, building more roads and railways, and then one should not be surprised if we actually deliver on it. I think it's a little special – but it really confirms that a person trusts that we're actually going to deliver – when one is already concerned about where the money is going to come from. But that is the privilege we have, we who are in government and who have a majority, that we actually deal with the budgets and make sure that we give priority to road and rail. Similarly, it would have been interesting if the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV had explained when they spent half a billion more dollars to the Sovtunnel, in Magnhild Meltvej Kleppa's home municipality: What was the project that was scrapped instead? When a tunnel was built through Navarsete's hometown, where did that money come from? What road project was then scrapped? I never heard such information rounds to Stortinget then. We need to give priority to the whole thing. It happens in the state budget, and we decide... [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2009	I think it is a little special that the Council of State does not see that the Storting wants to be informed about the whole and all the changes that have been made. Not only are there individual projects, but there are a number of changes. And it's also taken up from one of your collaboration parties, the Christian People's Party, that you saw in the last case that it was unfortunate that you didn't know how to finance it. That is why I ask again: does not the Council of State think it is natural that the Storting should be briefed on as much changes as have been made here and as proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2014	That information is available, inter alia: in the revised budget, where we show some re-priorities. But despite the fact that we are now reducing little of the appropriations for maintenance and renewal in tunnels, the amount today is higher than the red-green proposal. So we have a commitment to tunnel safety while now we see that it's possible to speed up some projects. And then we think it's important to speed up the five road projects that are being revised, precisely because it's such a long-term time horizon, that it's important to get started. If you lose some time on some tunnel projects that you can do faster, that was a reasonable priority. I can't see that it's supposed to be that we're going to present a national transport plan every time we show that we're able to overfulfill the promises. And then the red-green parties have to decide soon whether to criticize us because we're implementing a lot of projects that are in the NTP, that they themselves put forward, or whether it's like now – that there's too many changes being made. So either it becomes ‘too much’ or it is ‘too small’, but one should at least stick to one line when criticising the government and not have... [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2021	What the Workers' Party and the Centre have asked for is an update of the financial framework. We have not asked for a new national transport plan, but for an update of the financial framework in the light of all the changes that have taken place, in order to be able to see a whole. It seems to me that the Council of State should be willing to give the Storting a good basis for the work ahead, both in committee and at large, and that it should respect the transport plan as a priority tool – not just for this house, but for the streets outside and for people in the counties, who are now uncertain about what is actually going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2026	What the Road Administration, the Railway Agency, the Coastal Works and the Avinor know is that they have more resources to travel with today than the previous government provided for last autumn. I don't think that makes them insecure. They see that creating opportunities, it creates opportunities to realize several road projects, several railway projects. At the same time, we have launched many reforms, precisely to make the system better and more efficient, so that you get built road and rail faster and cheaper and better. This is also something that we are very happy to see that both the Railway Agency and the Road Service are hugging with joy. For a long time they have tried to reform their system, but even felt that the railway report that the ministry itself was behind on how to change the rail sector in Norway was put in a drawer because it contained words such as ‘competition’ and ‘offer’. We would like to use that kind of tool, because we see that even the Railway Agency sees that they can get more money back by driving more efficiently. And then we can't drive and present an NTP every time we make a change, but in the budgets we inform, and the Storting are the ones who decide... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2031	If the Council of State has more money, he has no more than 60 seconds to answer. The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2038	The big question, which we are trying to get into the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre, is about the financial framework. I am really asking how the projects are to be financed. That is the big concern – not that we spend more money on the road. We did that in our NTP as well, which is at the root. There, we raised more money than ever for road racing in the next few years. It is not new for the Workers' Party to want to spend more money on the road, but it is a little important to know the significance of the changes in both the projects in the NTP and any other projects to be prioritised. That's the big question, and that's a reason why this proposal comes, namely that the minister has been very good at changing projects and cutting out tolls, but he hasn't been as good at saying where he's going to pick up the toll from. At least he hasn't shown it that far. We saw nothing in the proposition in that regard, and we are waiting in suspense on the 2015 budget for that matter. Yes, the Workers' Party is offensive. We were in position, and we're going to be in opposition. But the minister doesn't have all the world's reasons to be so violent in the future when it comes to being so very offensive, because it's a fact that we're sitting here in Stortinget waiting for things from the minister. We have asked questions through written questions and have then been told that the matters will come in the spring. Those waiting for these are still waiting. Only in my part of the country are we waiting for the Harstad package, City pack Bodø and a road project in Langsund. I know that several projects are announced that they will come to spring, but the spring will well begin to end gradually, since the May month now is over. My calendar is at least like that. When it comes to predictability: I haven't been on the Storting, but what I've heard when I've had hearings, and people have come and expressed themselves to us, is that they're very pleased with how the NTP has gradually become – from what it was at first, to what it is today. As has been said by several people here: it is a very good governance document. You can know for a long time what projects are coming. It is important for the municipalities and counties concerned, and of course it is important for the agencies working on this. Therefore, when there are relatively large changes – at least it should be in the interests of the Minister – it should be reassured that it will not affect the projects in the NTP. I'm choosing to trust the minister for the moment when he says that what's in the NTP is there, and that he's going to overfill it. But he must also reassure us by showing the discovery of the projects that he has been sitting on and that have created this uncertainty. To Åse Michaelsen: This is not the case that former NTPs have not been followed – on the contrary. We want the NTP to be a governance document, and we hope that the new government does too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2056	The debate would be much better if there was consistency between what one himself did in position, and what one requires when one himself is in opposition. I would like to remind you that when the red-green parties made changes to the priorities of their NTP, among others. not even in the NTP, they did not inform about the projects that disappeared. A very concrete project is the Softunnel. I record that the red-greens have not mentioned this, because they are going to make demands on this government to do something other than what they themselves thought was necessary. That's the one. The second thing, which is really the essence of what the red-green parties here are suggesting, is that there must be some kind of long-term budgeting in the Stortinget, where one actually doesn't just look at one year's budget, but would like to look at four years or the whole ten-year period, so that if one does one thing here, one has to see what effect it has on the total use of money and then make changes. I fully agree with that. It actually promoted some of the opposition parties to – when we were in opposition in the previous period – but then the red-green parties voted against it. They would not have long-term budgeting. So what they're actually arguing about now, they were strongly opposed when they sat down and rushed. It's unfairness No. 2 in this debate. One imposes requirements on others, which one would not implement. Then I think this debate is getting a little weird. The Labour Party claims that someone is sitting there waiting for things. Well, there are six things from the government for consideration in the Transport Committee. It's just to check his archive drawer, take them up and start working with them, if you think no things have come. A lie-off law and a re-prioritisation proposition shall be dealt with. The last is for the rest case No. 7th@item: inlistbox There are a number of issues in an overall proposal, with toll reform, road companies and other things to be implemented. There is information about road projects with increased cost frameworks, which means a commitment of over 30 billion. kr in new road investments. There's no shortage of cases to work with, but one has to treat them, and see that they're there. It is true that some projects have unfortunately taken longer than I would have liked. With regard to the Langsund compound, it was simply due to the fact that Troms ’ county council did not take a sufficient decision, which required them to take a new decision. That decision is now made, and the Vegvesenet can complete it, and we in the department are going to do everything we can, and once we've done it, it's going to be forwarded. Bodø and Harstad: There's one of the same things that one also saw on Helgeland, where we're actually working to give the inhabitants a lower toll load. I think that's important, and sometimes it's worth spending a few extra weeks to get better solutions, rather than rushing things through and imposing a tax burden on the local population that's too big. If the NTP was as good as the red-green would have it for, it's nice that I can read demands every day – as late as yesterday in the Trønder-Avisa: that the NTP that the Workers' Party had in the case of the Tronder Railway is far too bad when a person suddenly sits in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2077	I took the floor for a brief comment on Juvik's claim that the NTP lying there was being followed by the Workers' Party. That's actually not right, because if you look at what the Workers' Party put in its budget for 2014 last year, there are many sections that should have had appropriations for 2014, to which the Workers' Party did not add money. So that's actually not right. Some of the same distances we add money and expand from two to four fields. So that's not right what came from the representative Juvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2084	It's a little special to hear the council say that he thinks it's strange that the Workers' Party and other opposition parties conduct politics every day. We're going to answer for what we did in the last eight years, but we're, in line with the Council of State, fully capable of developing new policies – that should just be lacking. We also have to move on. I agree with the Council of State that we shall not lay a plan that will lie there, that will remain lying down, and that will never be touched. We've never meant that, and we'll never believe that. But it's very special when the Council of State is wondering how consistent we are in opposition compared to how we were in position. If there are any who have been consistent – in both position and opposition – it is the Working Party, the Centre Party and the SV. I put bigger question marks on the consistency of what the Council of State did when he was in opposition and what he is doing now when he is in position. We want to fence about NTP as the governance document it is. We want to be able to tell people that to pay less in tolls, a take of community money. Who's not supposed to get theirs then? It's not that long since this plan was adopted in Stortinget, and I expect all the parties that were behind it to still stand on the plan. As a rogalending, I think it is special to see that there is now raised doubt about the E39 northwards, for the benefit of the E39 southwards – and that is even done by the Right-Representative Meling, who spoke about this together with others from the Right, and who promised double tracks to Egersund on the railway. Here's the fear of who's gonna lose. This government wants to give with one hand and must take back with the other hand if one is not to press up money or do something in a strange way, which at least we were never used to, when we sat in the offices in which the council now sits.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2099	When the Solvik-Olsen government council dose it to be consistent in the transition from opposition existence to position life and vice versa, you should listen. There are experiences, perhaps not of the most reliable kind. I was dragged into the debate with a quote from Trøndera-Avisa, and I have to say I very much appreciate the fact that we have proper references in this Chamber, because the way you are referred to by the Council of State is by no means despicable. The NTP that the red-green adopted, and on which Solvik-Olsen has repeated that he wants to be measured, has placed the project electrification of the Trunder Railway and the Meråker Railway for the first part of the planning period. When the Stortinge treated the NTP last spring, the Red-Green parties, with the support of some of the supporting parties to today's government, wrote that they saw a possible, earlier progress, and that they encouraged the Railway Agency to cooperate with the region. The comments of the party on the treatment of NTP were that this project should be realised immediately. The reason why this project cannot be realized more quickly is not a question of allocation. It's not a question of the quality of the red-green NTP. It is simply a matter of the ability and willingness of the Council of State to allow the Railway Agency to start detailed planning. As the system is today, the Railway Agency does not start planning its projects until they have been allocated. We have a state council that has gone high on the track and said that he wants more efficient systems. Well, the possibilities are on the Council of State's table. Once plans have been submitted to the NTP, there is a expectation of funding, which has been repeated and assured by the Council of State. Why, then, can't planning be carried out? It is not a question that the Workers' Party no longer likes its NTP. This is on the Council of State's table. Here, there's no shortage of high and dark ambitions, so we're waiting with great excitement for this to progress that puts the red-green in the shadow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2108	So this debate is about the red-green parties being terrified that today's majority constellation will build too much road and rail, and that it will be at the expense of other good purposes in society. It's a very clear description that the red-greens are afraid that we prioritise infrastructure too high. That shows a difference. It shows that the distinction one also saw when today's government parties were in opposition and wanted more than the previous government. We'll obviously still do that. But I believe it is inconsistent when the government and the majority, even the Workers' Party and the Centre, agree that we should reduce the toll ratio in Helgeland North by 300 million. kr, and that then suddenly there is a huge problem because other things may have to suffer, but the Labour Party still supports it. Then we have the last speaker, who said in the Trunder-Avisa yesterday that it was too late: ‘It is too late, Mr Ingvild Kjerkol believes.’ I even read it in bookcases to show that it's a quote. When someone here in the pulpit says that the railroad works don't start planning until there are appropriations, that's absolutely right. That's how it should be. When someone thinks that planning should start this year, the Labour Party says that more money should therefore have been allocated. Then I ask for an answer to this question: When the Workers' Party believes that the Trønderbanen should have started faster, and it will cost money this year, where would that money have come from? Why is it not a problem when the Workers' Party goes out and says this about the Trønderbanen, the Meråkerbanen, the Kongswingerbanen, the Gjøvikbanen and the Jærbanen? That's $10 billion in total. Then they do not require themselves to have a total package and say which other railway project is then being pushed out in time. Is that the Folloban we weren't supposed to start now anyway? Is that the Southern Railway we're not going to double the capacity? If it is that every time the government does something and we say that this is our priority in the budget, but we are already notifying it now – then I would also like to see the Workers' Party's priority up front. My question to Kjerkol is: What is the road or rail project, or what social performance is now going to disappear because the Workers' Party is going to accelerate electrification of the Trønderbahn? I'm going to promise that we'll get it done on the Trønderbanen, but I don't want to start designing to drag it out as far as possible in time. This is about concentrating resources so that we can implement projects more effectively. This is not about having the most planning time possible, but about having concentrated efforts. Neither the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party or the Left have raised doubts about the E39. We have made a crossroads where the previous government was unable to do so. We say we should increase the capacity between Kristiansand and Stavanger. No one on our side has said that it will be at the expense of other routes on the E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2124	Here it is the Council of States that is not consistent. In an earlier article on a previous case today, among others, argued that: The representative The place from the government parties that the red-greens were reluctant to bind up resources over several years at a time. The example was materialised in the Toll Project in Helgeland, where operating contracts are also published, thus binding funds for several years. It was the red-green ones for that. We've inputted that into NTP. When it comes to planning for the Railway Agency, I notice that the Council of State determines that the Railway Agency will not start planning until they have been granted a permit. He therefore scrapes the idea of modernisation on more effective progress on railway projects. I think that's interesting. When it comes to making progress on the track section in question, it is simply about making it more holistic. Today, the Railway Agency has been granted the Hell-Vörnes route. So the government's plan is that when you're done with that project, you stop planning and wait for the next stage of the route to be allocated. That's what we call red-green a piece of split propulsion. We want an overall progress, and I'm a little disappointed that the Council of State confirms that he will not change this regime, which the red-greens were doing well to modernise the progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2131	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2145	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to three lines, with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2152	It is a pleasure for me that the case-speaker is calling for a coordinated approach from the Transport and Communications Committee in this case, which is, in other words, partly related to toll financing of the project. 13 by Joberget in Granvin municipality. This will be an extension of the existing Vossapakko. In 2009, Stortinget concluded that the funding of Vossapakko was to be based on tolls and state resources. It was then assumed that the planned environmental tunnel of 0,4 km at the Upper Vassenden could be replaced by a longer tunnel to ensure better progress towards progress, and that this had to be treated as a matter of its own. Now this is the case here, and there is local and regional support for the sub-financing of the project through the extension of the original Vossapakko. The project involves reparation of the bottleneck at the Upper Vassenden. It has a total length of 4.6 km, where the tunnel is about 2 km. Rv. l3 Joberget is set at 357 million. EUR 2014 and cost frame is SEK 393 million. kr. The government part of the funding is $228 million. NOK, including compensation for VAT. This means that the expansion at Joberget is funded by 64 pst. State resources and 36 pst. tolls. The development of traffic in Vossapakko is expected to be financed within the original 15-year toll period. that the project will be paid down during 2025. This is the first toll case in Hordaland that this government has developed on its own, and now it has submitted for handling in Stortinget. It is a milestone that a progress party-driven department for the first time will present a self-produced toll proposal, which the party's representatives in this room will also vote for later this evening. In several other cases, we have seen that the government has put forward proposals to reduce the planned toll section. I record that it does not happen in this case. With the decision we have to make today, Vossapakko will finally be completed in a proper way. This is one of those road sections where one never feels completely safe. In the middle of March, a race retraced the entire roadway. This is also the road to the hospital for people in Granvin, Ulvik and Eidfjord. They usually have good health there, but they have to go to Voss. I've been talking to the spokesperson in Granvin. She says that they are looking forward to the setting and hope that this will work smoothly. I join in the joy of the spokesman, and I also believe that this is going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2169	After the previous sequence, it is nice to be able to help build a little more road. I'm glad we can finish Prop today. 81 S on the development and financing of Rv. [[2013-2014]] 13 by Joberget in Hordaland through the extension of Vossapakko. Vossapakko comprises several projects: Upper Granvin–Voss border and Mønnshaug–Palmafoss on Rv. 13 and conversion of E16 outside the Voss centre. Several of the projects have already been completed and opened. Reconstruction of crossings on E16 at Stanghelle will be completed in 2014 and the upgrading of the original E16 through Voss is planned to be completed in 2014 or 2015. Original regulatory plan for rv. 13 Joberget was installed a short environmental tunnel. In order to achieve a better total solution, a longer tunnel has now been constructed that will restore the bottleneck at the Upper Vassenden while ensuring the scrapping distance between the Upper Vassenden and the Ulvik exit. The project has local support and has been treated in the municipalities concerned and in the districts of Hordaland. For the right, it is important that toll projects have good local connections. It is particularly important in this type of project, where the extra cost is the result of an extended tunnel in order to solve an important tailor-made project. In my opinion, national tailor-made projects should, as a general rule, be fully financed by State resources. However, when we depart from this principle in this financing plan, it is satisfactory to see that the State share is as high as 64 pst. of the cost. The rest is financed by an extension of the already existing Vossapakko. As in many other toll projects, traffic growth is also higher than estimates in this case. This means that the extension of Vossapakko can be implemented without increasing the tariffs, and the projects in Vossapakko are expected to be paid down within the original 15-year toll period. Calculations show that the financing facility is robust and that any weaker traffic development will not significantly extend the amortisation period. A positive decision today will make it possible to ensure the continuous and effective construction of the projects in Vossapakko. The great gain of this will be a safer and more traffic-proof everyday life for all those using rv. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2182	With a new government, we have got a strong commitment on the way. The national and county roads have increased by 1.5 billion. kr, and at the same time the toll load has been reduced. We have increased the investment in asphalting and maintenance compared to the plans of the previous government. We have a strong focus on road safety and race safety, and the drivers and businesses have a lot to enjoy. I am pleased that we have now received a new section in Vossapakko for treatment. The stretch proposed is very rascal and has a terrible standard. On some parts of the road, the width is only 5 meters, and over the last ten years, there has been a total of 24 rocks on the route. This is a very good project for road safety reasons, because it helps to eliminate the uncertainty that road users may experience when driving on high-racial routes. But the project will also dissolve in a bottleneck, which is the situation today, in the transition from a new road map and over to this one. The road project has a large local political base – it is highly desirable. Good plans have also been made for the use and landfill of the surplus mass, so that this can be a resource. In Stortinget, the Progress Party has fought many times against the widespread use of tolls by the majority of the population. In the government, we have started to reduce the toll percentage. I'm proud of what the Progress Party has done with our 16.3 pst. digestion. Some places we have completely removed the toll collection – in fact, on seven road sections so far – elsewhere, we are reducing the debt, so that the rates can decrease or the downtime is reduced. Now the government has announced a toll reform that could significantly reduce toll tariffs in many places. This is in stark contrast to the policy pursued by the red-greens. This project is one of many projects that have been planned for a long time with partial toll financing. The tolling period for Vossapakko is 15 years, and even if the project is realised as an extension of this package, this can be done without raising toll tariffs or extending the tolling period. The background is that the traffic growth is significantly higher than that envisaged at the time of the adoption of the original package. For example, the traffic in 2013 is 20 pst. higher than that foreseen in 2008. In addition, the project will be able to benefit from the toll reform to the government, where we plan to reduce the number of bomb companies to reduce operating costs, reduce interest rates and contribute financially by covering a large part of the — perhaps the whole — interest expenditure. It will provide the basis for the road section, when it opens in 2016, to be subject to lower fares than that resulting from the landfill. I look forward to the government putting the toll reform into practice in line with what has been announced to the Stortinget. I think everyone knows that the Progress Party is against increased taxation through tolls. Now we're starting to see the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2197	Also on the part of the Christian People's Party today, we are happy to be able to provide our support for the development and financing of Rv. 13 Joberget in Hordaland. Route 13 through Upper Vassenden today has a very poor standard, with road width of less than 5 meters, which has led to many road-hazard situations. This project will lead to the improvement of the bottleneck at the Upper Vassenden. But in addition, and that's not the least important, the strongly tailor-made distance between the Upper Vassenden and Ulvik's driveway will be secured. In the Regional Scramble Plan, the project has had a high priority, which was also an important part of the basis for the NTP 2014-2023 priority. With a total of 24 steps in the last ten years, it tells a lot about the need for measures to ensure road users also against this type of accident. Funding will take place within the tolling period for Vossapakko of 15 years, i.e. that the project is to be paid down during 2025, well anchored locally and regionally. The State resources shall be 64 pst. and tolls 36 pst. The Christian People's Party is committed to achieving the most effective toll collection. That's why we take a very positive view of the ministry's work and initiative to establish only a few toll companies that can replace the many that we have around the country today, organized as independent companies. There is reason to believe that these are operated in a rational and good way, which will reduce the collection of tolls and the total cost of doing so. That way, we're just creating what we all want, more way for the money. That the toll company for Vossapakko is considered to be part of a possible future toll company, we consider that it is quite natural and correct to be done. I refer you to the case's excellent presentation of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2210	When both the case spokesperson, Rommetveit, and the Spokesman of Granvin are happy, it is completely impossible that neither I nor the Left are infected by the joy that lies in the cards when there are now multiples to expand Vossapakkko by rv. 13 Joberget in Granvin. Like rv. 13 stands out in the area today, there's no doubt that it looks more like a semi-finished project, as the road almost ends at an angle and the largest bottleneck and the most deferred race area is left, after the road has been built in the tunnel. Then I have to admit – even if it is a bit in the hands of a wolf – that we are dependent on the hospital at Voss, and give the case-speaker the right thing to say, of course, that it is a point. After Hardangerbrua came into place, the point is at least as heavy for those who live on the other side of the bridge, both in Eidfjord and in parts of Ullensvang. What is not as common in the debate is that this is not only a very important tribal road east-west – especially for passenger cars, but also for heavy traffic, especially in the summer half-year, when Hardangerbrua is in place – it is also an incredibly important internal tribal road north-south. When one comes across Hardangerbrua and runs outwards towards Ullensvang and Odda, one is on E134 Haukeli. It is the fastest road north-south, in the inner ladder down to Kristiansand and the continent. As you can see, this is really a project that takes care of a lot of things. A little curiousness – in conclusion – which is not entirely uneven either: now one will also take a seven-mile step – not to say about it. 5.4 km – in the direction of making the pedestrian and cycle path around Granvinsvatnet almost complete. It's not insignificant for those of us who either use roller skis or make us come out in other ways to enjoy the idyll and fun in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2223	As all previous speakers, I am very pleased that this is now being adopted. Rv. 13 Joberget is an important step-by-step project and a road map that has very poor standards. It is a narrow road – many places narrower than 5 meters. In many places it is very problematic when large cars meet each other. There is also a challenge that part of this route is already built. The new part ends up in a 90° turn on the existing road, creating road-hazardous situations. That's why it's important that we move on and get the roadway repaired even further. It is built road both in the open and in the tunnel. The total road length is 4,6 km, of which the tunnel is approximately. 2 km. It draws up the price, but that's what it takes to make this a safe path. Traffic safety is very, very important to us. But tunnel costs and the fact that the road route actually gets a little longer than the old one, make it appear that when you count on this – socio-economically – in the models, it seems like an unprofitable road. I still believe that it is very reasonable that we have such projects. For those who live there, it is about security and prosperity. Then we have to give priority to that kind of project. This is a financial extension of existing Vossapakko. That means there will be toll projects here that are being carried on, but the tariffs remain unchanged. It is true, as some point out, that even a Right Party government has toll projects, because the bulk of the population is large. I would rather have road projects carried out than sit and wait for the 2017 elections, in the hope that we will then change the majority. One must relate to reality. What is gratifying is that at the same time as the government has toll projects like this, it introduces a reform in the toll sector that will, when the reform is implemented, reduce the level of tolls for this package as well. It shows that the happy individual has to point out that not all parties get their 100 pst, shadows to find solutions that today's government has found, which means that one actually gets more way and less tolls. There's nothing that you should spend energy on -- irritating those parties that didn't get their 100 pst. – for this is actually helping to improve the economy of the people living in the area. Lower toll tariffs will make business more profitable. It will be more profitable for people to live in these areas by being able to commute to jobs. We see that toll stations in many places become a barrier, an economic wall, which means that business doesn't work as well as it should. It's about trade, it's about employment, it's about housing. That's why I think more than today's government and the majority parties should be concerned about how we can reduce the toll burden, rather than rejoice that there is the greatest amount of toll, as the Labour Party does in this case. But on the other hand, I'm very happy that we've got this decision in place, that this can be started. I am sure it will be an inspiration for further work on the road sections in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2242	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2245	I will begin by saying that I am happy that the Council of State is happy and that the spokesman in Granvin is happy. And the sun shine, so this is going to be good stuff. The Committee, in its comments, has been concerned that toll collection should be carried out as efficiently as possible. I would point out that it would be natural for the toll company for Vossapakko to enter as part of a future toll company that might cover the whole of the West. The working party strongly wants more of the tolls paid and less to go to administration and collection. We were drivers of rather strong wording on this in the national transport plan. We fully support the government and the Council of State in this work. I actually think that one could go even a little further, especially when it comes to mandatory pieces, which remove much of the collection costs. When does the Council of State see that Vossapakko is part of a large regional toll company?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2254	I hope it happens as soon as possible. We have announced in the joint proposal to the Stortinget that we have started the toll reform and how we imagine it should be. It is about reducing today’s 50–60 toll companies – the consequences of previous government policies – to one, two or three toll companies. It's far less than what the red-green sketches sketched. Today is 20 pst. of the revenue from tolls for administration and interest expenses. That was the result of the policy of the last government. We're going to change this. Last year, 1.5 billion went on. of the driver’s tolls for interest and administration. It is very good that the Workers' Party in the opposition now rejoices that the Right-Fremskrit party government will change this, so that more money goes into the way. How fast Vossapakko becomes part of a company is also about local decisions. We cannot force independent legal objects to become part of a larger toll company, but we will make it attractive for them through the interest compensation scheme to enter a state toll company.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2264	The working party in position was very busy with this, and we're also in opposition. It wasn't both the current government party that was just as passionate about it, to say it like that. I just said that I thought it was great that this was going on. The government has launched a so-called toll reform aimed at reducing the number of road tolls in the car cities, and the state part of some road projects has already increased. But I can't see that the government has done anything to make it more reasonable for those who are driving a car in Hordaland yet. The question is, why is Vossapakko not part of this reform? I can't agree with Roy Steffensen, who said that a person already sees results. At least one doesn't see it in Joberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2271	Just this question is a bit enjoyable, considering that in two previous debates we have heard criticism from the Labour Party against the Advance Party and the Right because we have reduced toll shares in companies, and one is concerned about where that money is going to come from. Now when we don't, a similar concern is that the government hasn't reduced the toll charges. Once again, it would have been an advantage if the Workers' Party decided which foot to stand on when they criticized the government. In the two cases where we have reduced the amount of toll – Bagn–Bjørgo and Helgeland North – this has been the result of an additional allocation for the projects. If the Labour Party felt that this should also be the case here, then a proposed proposal should be made. I don't see that happened. With regard to the toll reform itself, it is about changing the systems. It's mentioned here, precisely because we've now come so much further that in this setting, government parties are introducing the toll reform as a change, unlike what it was before, when it came to extra appropriations. This is about reducing interest rates, getting an interest-rate compensation scheme in place and having lower administrative costs. That means we're going to bring down the tariffs later. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2278	That's it. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2296	Lost life is a major social problem and is a great pain for the survivors. Every year more than 500 people die of suicide in Norway, but what is possible even harder to accept is that 100 people kill themselves every year while they are being treated for mental health protection. Since 2010, at least 423 patients have taken their own lives while being treated for mental health protection. It'll mean two patients every week. In one third of the cases, patients have taken their own life into the hospital, according to a review carried out by the Address Paper. Newspaper has gained insight into 32 comprehensive supervisory cases from the same four-year period, in which patients who have been treated for mental health protection have taken their lives. In 25 out of 32 suicide cases that newspaper has gained insight into, state health authorities and statesmen come with harsh criticism or critical objections. In one third of cases, one concludes that patients have received irresponsible treatment. Reports tell you that serious system failure is a recurrence. Absence of communication between add-ons and departments, missing routines, no training in routines, patients not followed up after printing, health services that make mistakes several times, and physical conditions in the hospital that enable patients to commit suicide in the department. The most common mistake is that no suicide risk assessment is made. Patients have not received satisfactory diagnosis and treatment. Necessary tests have not been taken, hospitalised patients have not received the necessary supervision, patient records have no documentation and constitute a risk because other therapists have not been given an overview of the disease picture. Lack of knowledge about depressive states is also a system error that goes back, and not least have the survivors in several of the cases experienced poor follow-up. In one third of the cases, the patient takes his or her life into the hospital. This also occurs in closed departments, which should be the highest level of care for patients in mental health protection. We need to have confidence in mental health protection and that the risk of harming ourselves is at least possible. In recent times, there have been several reporters who have stood up in the face of praise and who are open to the story of suicide in psychiatry. I myself have been contacted directly by the family of a girl who committed suicide. History is painful to take inwards, but what makes me very disappointed is to hear how the survivors are met by the health care system in retrospect. The family said that they felt the meeting and contact with the health care service was like meeting a wall. The girl theyira had taken suicide while she was admitted. Parents had warned the staff about the risk, however, it happened. The family wasn't primarily out to criticize, they wanted information and a cause. But the health service rarely admits faults. They should. One thing is that suicide will happen in psychiatry, but one cannot allow system errors not to be improved, one cannot allow those who are affected to be respected, one cannot allow one not to learn from errors, nor can one allow so many lives to be lost when they are in the safest place. Suicide in psychiatry can be reduced, but in order to introduce measures, a number must be present. The address paper asked the State Health Authority and the Knowledge Centre for figures on how many patients each year take their own life into the hospital. None of them had such an overview. There's a big problem that there's no full public overview of how many people have taken their lives while they were under psychiatric treatment. Missing and shifting statistical information makes it difficult to find a reason for this. Both the representative organization and experts believe that better systems can save lives. The National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention is now calling for a system to continuously record suicide and attempted suicide in psychiatry. They are calling for a system that gets mapped around the events, the risk factors around the patient and the treatment. The primary thing is to learn from what has happened, and then we need to first know what has happened. The situation now is that today we have too little knowledge of suicides in mental health protection. The government recently presented a 29-point plan against suicide and self-harm, and it's very affordable. The final point of the plan was to initiate testing of a suicide monitoring system for mental health protection. Experience from the United Kingdom has been shown to suggest that the implementation of a set of suicide prevention measures in mental health services based on a suicide monitoring system reduces the incidence of suicides in services over time. The National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention has translated, adapted and tested this monitoring tool in three Norwegian hospitals, pointing out that the system has already been tested, and asking for its introduction on a national basis. Fredrik Walby, of the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, says that this point in the Government Action Plan for the Prevention of Suicide and Self-Destruction will not lead to new knowledge but will only push the implementation out for several years. I'm in agreement. Now no more testing of screening systems is needed; now a nationwide monitoring system for suicides in mental health protection is needed. Nor is Lars Mehlum, the leader of the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, happy with the level of ambition. He points out that systematic approaches are important for health professionals to learn from the events. He also shows that relatives and survivors are particularly concerned about this, that the health care system learns from what is happening, and whether it has been mistreated or not. This is enough argument to get a national mapping. The community shows great willingness to examine the case of mentally ill people killing, but the will to systematically investigate suicides among mentally ill people is for comparison more lukewarm. Every year, there are about 100 people who lose their lives while being treated in mental health protection, and that's too high. This is about trust in the Norwegian health system. When we get information that a lot is caused by system errors, that the health care system does not learn from failures, and that relatives are not met with respect, there is reason to take this into account. I think there is a need for an action plan to prevent suicide in psychiatry. It must contain concrete measures that will address the necessary system changes. Governments will probably refer to the national patient safety campaign, new reporting schemes, the new action plan on suicide prevention and self-harm and the Syse selection process. I agree that there are important measures. And it's very nice that there is now a more systematic work on patient safety in the health care system in general. It will also benefit mental health protection. At the same time, I have no doubt that this particular field in which patients take their own lives while they are being treated requires more concrete efforts from the state. It is a political responsibility to correct system failure. It is a political responsibility to acquire knowledge when knowledge is lacking. It is a political responsibility to take action when the risk is too high. That's why I think we need our own strategy plan to prevent suicide in psychiatry. It's about people's trust in health. I have great respect for the fact that this is about very demanding patients and difficult assessments for the treatment providers. But in many ways it may be very demanding to consider suicide risks. And if the tragic event happens, if a patient kills himself during the treatment, I'm sure that the situation is also going very hard on the treatment. What happens must be seen as a system failure. Therefore, it is so important that a system review is now being carried out. I finally want to underline how important it is that the relatives are taken seriously. I also want to commend the relatives who have recently appeared in the media with their stories. The openness of suicide is important for us to learn more, to know more, and to prevent better. My question to the Council of State is whether the government sees that it is now important to ensure a national overview of suicides in mental health protection, and whether the government will put in place concrete measures to bring about changes in the systems that prevent the risk of suicide in the psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2332	I would like to thank the representative Kjersti Toppe for addressing a very serious and challenging topic. It upsets me that about 500 people in Norway lose their lives every year as a result of suicide. Probably as many people as between 3,500 and 7,500 are trying to take their own lives. This is in stark contrast to the image of Norway as one of the world’s best countries to live in. Yes, we can be proud of Norway in many areas, but the suicide rate is one of the darkest exceptions. That so many of our fellow humans don't find life worth living is, and has been for a long time, a serious thought for me. We have a duty to act, and we have to do it now. We know that there are many reasons for suicide and what leads to such an act. The most difficult thing to understand is the suicides that happen among children and young people. The same can be said about the cases that the representative Toppe deals with, i.e. people who were under the supervision of mental health protection when it happened. This is a demanding additional burden for those who are in great sorrow. Losing someone in suicide is in itself an extra burden. One is left with a big, complex emotional situation—of course, grief, but also sometimes despair, a sense of responsibility, a sense of mind. But when one loses one's closest while they're being treated and one thinks they're in the best hands, this becomes extra difficult. For professionals, this is also a great grief – a double grief. They have lost a patient, and it happened while they were in charge of him or her. In such extreme situations, it is expected that at the same time healthcare professionals will operate at 100 pst. professional and humiliate to the grief of relatives and perhaps also to mental health protection. Furthermore, health professionals shall immediately follow up the event, both at the system level and internally within the organisation. The identification of possible failures and weaknesses shall be dealt with in learning and quality improvement at all stages, while at the same time ensuring a high level of information and support for the family. This is the challenging thing to do. Suicides in mental health protection are extreme events that also put hospitals to great tests. For this reason, it is essential for the management and learning opportunities that the post-suicide work is done professionally and is of high priority. If the course of events involves other services, such as the Municipal Health Service and Nav, these must also be included in the follow-up. This leads me to the representative Toppe's question about what the government will do about action and system changes to prevent suicides in mental health protection. Overall, as a society, we have a heavy responsibility to help prevent and reduce self-harm and suicide. Above all, close and good cooperation between the different services and levels is important. This means that the specialist healthcare service has the necessary contact with the health and care services in municipalities to ensure that good follow-up is established after outsourcing. When suicide was a topic of an interpellation that I travelled in 2011, I suggested that a separate and coherent action plan be established for this work. The previous suicide action plan was finalised in 2002 and a number of actions were taken in the light of it. However, these measures have not led to reductions in suicide and self-harm in the last ten years, confirming the need for a new and reinforced effort. As the representative of Toppe knows, I have recently launched the Health Directorate's National Action Plan on Suicide Prevention and Suicide Injury in 2014-2017. The objective of reducing the level of suicide and self-harm in the population shall be achieved through five areas of performance: good mental health and control in the population reduced the incidence of suicide and self-harm in risk groups good follow-up and care of survivors, relatives and other concerned a knowledge-based service provider knowledge-based strategies and actions The plan is dynamic and can be extended and strengthened during the period. Its purpose is to contribute to greater transparency, so that more people seek help, and that those working with children and young people have better skills to discover when someone is at risk of suicide, and that their relatives get better help and follow-up. The authorities and the health sector have a heavy responsibility to carry out this work in the future, and it requires good cooperation between user and professional environments. In addition to good practice, systematic supervision is essential for learning. After a probationary period with the call-out group in the State Health Authority, a separate warning clause was introduced in the Specialist Health Service Act § 3-3a in 2012 which reads: ‘In order to ensure prudential follow-up, health establishments and establishments which have contracts with health establishments or regional health establishments shall immediately notify serious incidents to the State Health Authority. Serious incident means death or significant injury to patients where the outcome is unexpected in relation to the expected risk.’;» From 2010 to 2013, the Health Authority received a total of 857 alerts. 365 of them, or 44 pst, were from mental health protection. Of these, 219 were reported suicides, 74 suicide attempts, and 17 were recorded as overdoses. The number of alerts has been increasing as the scheme has become better known in professional environments. The State Health Authority examines all alerts received and takes a decision on the appropriate follow-up on a case-by-case basis. alerts from mental health protection are somewhat different from the other warnings by saying that the concept of ‘estimated risk’ and the actual outcome criterion of ‘death or significant injury’ after a suicide attempt do not in itself say anything about the level of failure of healthcare. In 2013, the State Health Authority set up a working group to summarise the experience and clarify the criteria for alerting pursuant to sections 3 to 3a. Now, the working group has been in place for a while, and I would like to ask for a presentation of these experiences through the governance dialogue with the Health Authority. Then we also work – and have commissioned the Syse Committee – to look at the basis for setting up a separate investigation commission on serious health incidents. The time around hospitalisation in psychiatric wards is a high-risk period for suicide. In 2013, the National Patient Safety Campaign carried out in safe hands pilots and a national learning network to prevent suicides in acute psychiatric day-care units. After this, a five-pack of measures to reduce suicide has been developed. The action package is one of several knowledge-based interventions in the patient safety campaign to reduce adverse events and patient damage in healthcare. The dissemination of this action package is now being continued in the five-year patient safety programme launched in 2014. I've been informed that about 65 pst. by the units in the country now have the concrete measures to reduce suicides in acute psychiatric day-care units. Most teams working on the measures report significant improvements. It has also been reported that these measures have directly contributed to the prevention of suicide. So until the representative Toppe's question about the government will ensure a national overview of suicides in mental health protection. Yes, I think this can be a valuable step in strengthening our knowledge of suicide and so make us better equipped to prevent these kinds of tragic events. The Health Directorate now assesses a report from the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, which refers to the testing of the English NCI monitoring system in three Norwegian hospitals. This system has been in use in England since 1992 and has produced good results there. In view of the promising results that have been achieved so far in Norway, I am in favour of introducing the scheme here as well. I myself have visited the Southland Hospital, which is one of these hospitals that have positive experience, and which believes this is something that should be introduced. So I will now receive an assessment from the Health Directorate and consider the possibility of introducing this as a requirement in connection with the mission document in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2393	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I feel that the Council of State is concerned about this issue. It is very good that there is an action plan to prevent suicide and self-harm. I would also like to say that it is a good thing that one of the dark areas in the Norwegian health care centre points out that this is one of the dark areas in the Norwegian health care centre, and that it is also demanding for the professionals who experience this. Reference is made to work being done, both against the patient safety campaign and the systematic supervision, and to the action plan developed by the Health Directorate. I feel that the Council of State was more positive in its response to the introduction of a national monitoring tool than is stated in the recent action plan. That action plan states that ‘The mapping system will now be tested in a range of health businesses’ for the first time. Then an assessment shall be made of whether it is to be implemented nationally based on experience from that test. That is precisely what our criticism has been: Here we have already had experience in three hospitals. Then we don't have to try it out in new health businesses. Now you can go straight to a national implementation. So I would like to think that the Council of State made it clear that he actually wants to work to ensure that a person does not go through tests in healthcare companies, but just over to a national implementation. I think there is a very great need for that. We would also have listened to what the professionals have pointed out to item 29 of the action plan. Then I have also suggested a more specific action plan against suicide that happens in the psychiatry. Measures to prevent suicide in general are good, but I think suicides that happen in psychiatry are very special. There are system measures that can be done, as I did in my article earlier today, and that have also been found when the Address Paper has been made transparent. There are system changes that can be made to reduce the risk of suicide. So I want to ask you again if the Council of State wants to create a special action plan just up against suicide that happens in psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2404	Yes, the representative is absolutely right. I go beyond what the action plan says in terms of the view on the implementation of this method. And I say that I specifically assess whether it is possible to introduce it as a requirement as early as 2015 in the mission to the health regions. But I would like to see the summary from the three hospitals in Norway that have done this before. I have visited the Southland Hospital myself. The recommendation and its summary are unambiguous. I also need to see it from the others. What is unique about that apparatus is that it goes right into what is also the representative's other question, namely to take concrete action. For this is not just a mapping tool. It is also a tool for a local debate on concrete measures to prevent the same happening again. I also believe that it is important to keep a full eye on the five measures included in the patient safety programme in this specific area. It must not only be carried out in some places, but everywhere, and it must be maintained year after year so that one does not forget this work. There, the patient safety programme has a good method to use, and these five measures go right into the conditions that I see that the series of articles, where the address newspaper has rightly highlighted this problem, reveals as a recurring problem. So if one follows up the five measures of the patient safety programme, there is also a great opportunity for a person to prevent just these actions that go back several times. Then we still have to be well-supervised and learn from the supervision that is. It is also one of my clear messages to the management and boards of health regions when I meet them, that I expect them to use the supervision – not only from their own business, but also from other businesses – to learn and prevent the same error from happening again. Overall, I believe that we have an action plan. It also includes this. We have concrete measures. What is important now is simply to implement and get these measures, as we know, to actually be applied everywhere. Then we will assess whether this new monitoring and methodology work, where we have experience from the United Kingdom and now from three hospitals in Norway, should also be introduced as a mandatory part for the entire healthcare system in Norway. Overall, I think because we have a lot of tools that are concrete, that can be used in the business, and that's what we need now. We need to implement the strategies and action plans we have and actually get results. That's what, in my opinion, is the most important thing I can do from my position.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2413	Let me first start by thanking the interpellant, the Council of State and the journalists in the Address Paper – Mari K. By Rise and Lajla Ellingsen – for the tremendously good journalism, where they really hit the nail on their head in terms of a very serious social problem. 423 people have taken their own lives since 2010. Several thousand have tried. 800,000 people take their own lives each year in the world. In a very good play, called To penguins in the Sahara, a cartoon by Alf Prøysen expresses a quotation and a rhetorical question when he asks about those who take their own lives, doing so in desperation to find a way to survive. Those who take their own lives are mainly from 15 to 44 years old. The youth study in Trondheim shows that 10 p.m. of all young people participating in this study have tried to take their own life. As politicians, we are expected to be able to answer the questions about why and how this can happen. In a day like this, too, the minds of all the employees who experience this on the body, all those who do their utmost, who do their very best to save the lives of other people and give them the opportunity to start over. Bent Höie has a good commitment as a state council, and as a big-time representative. I think we should follow the example of the Council of State and go a little bit further and go past the party lines. I think we should work so that the Storting should be at its best, put the political divide aside and work together to find solutions. For me, as a completely fresh wholesaler, it is incomprehensible that we do not build a psychiatry building because we are arguing about the location of a hospital in other parts of the country – that a psychiatrist who is going to research how to help even more people is not being built. Let me say it: it's not just the Council of State's responsibility, the Labour Party has also been in government and not clear to find a solution. I hope that, in the future, we will be able to get such things into port, that we will be delivered in the light of psychiatry centres and have bureaucracy and special interests set aside and really put what is important first, namely, to help each one. This is especially focused on psychiatry and on the very heaviest patients, but it's a paradox that half of all those who take their own lives are considered to be more easily mentally ill. They have small depressions, or so-called slight depressions, it's the diseases and the suicides it's so hard to explain. I think we should have a strong focus on helping each one and treating them, but I also think we should focus on what society we have and what society we want, because we can't deal with social problems with repair, they have to be treated with social measures. Making sure that everyone is seen already in kindergarten, that everyone experiences mastering at school and that they succeed with something, I think I can help with and prevent a lack of a self-image that feels like failure. I am very pleased that the Council of State goes on, that he not only reads out a previous action plan as adopted, but says that he is willing to look at what comes from the Storting. In this way, the Council of State shows that he sidelines the political lines and places the patient — the people involved — at the centre. To the relatives and to everyone who stands up in the papers, we'll just say, thank you so much, it's incredibly tough of you, and it's incredibly touching. It is demanding on such a day, but I hope here in Stortinget we can gather to try to help even more than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2436	Kjersti Tope shall be grateful to address a very serious and challenging theme. I would also like to thank both the Minister of Health and Audun Otterstad for articles that testify to the insight and perception of this topic. Suicide is one of the most common causes of death in this country. In addition, even more people are trying to take their own lives. Suicide is too many a taboo, at the same time there are many who struggle to tell about mental disorders. Together, this issue makes it even more difficult to talk about for those who are struggling. For the vast majority of Norway, it may seem strange that this is such a big problem in one of the world’s best countries — no matter how you choose to measure it, Norway is well aware of it in statistics. There is an additional load to look at everyone around them as it seems good. It goes without saying that those who go so far as to choose to take their own life are struggling hard. That life seems pointless, that the pressures of life are not to bear, and that the spark of life disappears is something that is likely to build itself up over time. Therefore, it may be difficult to prevent and predict who is affected. Life crises are for most people something a meeting in their time. Everyone has their way of dealing with it. We're all different, no one has it exactly the same way. This means that only individual treatment and attention apply. For some it's enough to have someone to talk to, others need medical treatment. Therefore, all parts of society can contribute to relieving. But it's important that we have a good support device for those who need help when life's challenges weigh too much down. More importantly, those who receive help must feel secure in what they receive. That's what this interpellation is all about. The interpellant takes up the sad fact that many take their lives while being treated in the health care system. This is serious. Much of the challenge is linked to the ongoing follow-up of patients. Unfortunately, there are divided opinions about what follow-up patients feel they get when they are admitted to Norwegian psychiatric services. It is also known that some of the challenges are associated with a lack of follow-up after printing. Close and good cooperation between the different services and levels is important. This means that the specialist healthcare service has the necessary contact with the health and care services in municipalities to ensure that good follow-up is established after outsourcing. As the Minister of Health, I would like to refer to the National Action Plan for the Prevention of Suicide and Self-Destruction of the Health Directorate. The objective of reducing the level of suicide and self-harm in the population is to be achieved through five areas of performance, to which the Council of State was committed. I am pleased that this is intended as a living plan and not as a static document – a plan where one opens to adjust the course along the way. When I hear the mood of this debate, the commitment to this issue is great in the Health Committee. I should also like to refer to the two proposals for document 8 on mental health which are being discussed in the Committee. I will not foreshadow the Committee's position, but it goes without saying that this is something we will follow up in the notification of the primary care and national hospital and health plan. It is essential that the services are both interconnected and interconnected. One of the first things that our health minister did after accession was to reintroduce the golden rule in health care, namely that growth in psychiatry should at least correspond to growth in somatic matters. The Prime Minister spent a lot of time in his first New Year's speech on those in Norway who are struggling mentally. And, as mentioned, a new action plan for the prevention of suicide and self-harm has just been presented. I would once again like to thank the representative Toppe for her interpellation and at the same time express both great confidence and expectation of the government's commitment to mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2458	Suicide is an important topic that affects very many people, directly or indirectly, at some point in their lives. As mentioned by several, the number of suicides is about 500 every year. But maybe even worse, you're assuming there's almost ten times as many suicide attempts. Some people have many such attempts behind them. Often this is supposed to be a call for help. Too many people are talking about: I can't do it anymore, but I really don't want to die. It is easy to see that this must be a terrible situation to be in. It is also not difficult to see the anxiety and despair that must arise from relatives — the constant fear that they will try again and perhaps succeed the next time. In view of the high suicide rate, I am pleased that we have gained an increased focus on the issue and that new measures and plans are on the steps in several areas, but especially in view of the new strategy plan on suicide and self-harm, which was recently presented. The plan is not perfect, but the most important thing is the focus it gives, the continuation of work that has begun, and the introduction of new measures. The plan contains a lot of good stuff, but it doesn't capture all of the aspects of the problem. Suicide is a major unresolved problem, very complex and sometimes demanding to deal with. How do you best help those who actually don't want to live? The main focus and goal must probably regardless of whether to create a society where everyone finds their place and where everyone feels seen and heard. We're not there. A short time ago, I was in a meeting with some young people with some considerable experience in mental health. And there's no doubt -- we have a way to go. They have published a book they call Psychiatric Health Professionals, and I know that the Minister of Health has also met some of these young people. In that book, we can, among other things, read: I have not been hurt or outraged or anything like that, and then I am not so easily taken seriously. I try to calmly tell about my suicidal thoughts, but it usually doesn't help. When it turned out that I had suicidal thoughts, I came into the BUP. I was suicidal and needed help. Said today that I wanted to go home to get my life. They just wrote me out. Can you imagine how that feels? Whether they get right that I'm living tomorrow, the way they do it is very devastating. A psychiatric hospital with doctors who take such great chances and almost encourage me to die, it shouldn't be legal. Of course, it is not good enough when individuals experience little importance and are not taken seriously. Here, healthcare professionals have a significant responsibility for how they communicate with the patient. Things that are meant in a special way can be perceived quite differently by the other. Communication and personal chemistry are particularly important in meeting vulnerable and despondent people. At the same time, I see that it can be easy to be a politician and say that this is not good enough, this is unacceptable – or require a clean-up. But in meeting with therapists, I have also learned that this is not that simple. Patients who seem to seem much better and express joy in being printed out can find out how to take their lives immediately afterwards. Figures in the new strategy plan show that there is an increased risk of suicide in the days after printing. I hope we can be confident that the assessments made during printing are very carefully considered. Maybe the answer is as much that you didn't get enough follow-up in the transition after printing, as if printing happened too early. Interaction between specialist health services and municipal health services is too poor in this area too. The National Health Authority’s own working group from 2013, which is to review the experience gained from alerts under the Special Health Service Act § 3-3a, is becoming very important in the further work on providing proper health care at the right time and in the right amount. In addition, I listened with interest to the Minister of Health's statement on the package of measures concerning the patient safety campaign in safe hands. This sounds promising, with measures that already seem to have had an impact. It will be exciting to follow this development further. Then I expect that the representative Toppe is very pleased that the Health Minister is in favour of her proposal to ensure a national overview of suicides in mental health protection. At the risk of being a little too happy in another difficult and evil case, I would nevertheless say that I am pleased that there is such a great deal of commitment around this topic, precisely because my encounters with the survivors after suicide are some of the meetings that have put the greatest impression in my heart. It will take a lot of us all to get the numbers of suicides down, and if we're to get everyone on this job, we politicians also have to be involved in raising the theme and show that we're serious when we say that the number of suicides is going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2490	First, thank the representative, Kjersti Toppe, for including this theme as an interpellation. It is an important debate. Thanks also to the Council of State for thorough answers. It's a demanding theme. I've also met relatives after suicide. There is a difficult situation that arises, and there is something we should put resources into to prevent that happening. So that's the way I wish we could third off talking about a zero vision of suicide, but I realize that it's a demanding vision, and now it's not realistic to bring down the number to zero. But I want to point out a fact that has not been such a large part of the debate here today. In fact, there are also regional differences in suicide rates in Norway. If we go to other countries, the proportion is actually a good part lower. We are high in Norway, and it is a serious signal also to the whole of Norwegian society – not just the healthcare community – because it is clear that we all have a little to give in to social activity. Then there's also an overweight of boys who commit suicide. Several people have argued that we are a little different users of healthcare, so it is important that we also have different services. As seen, this basic health service is also very important, and we are constantly discussing the need for more health sisters and increased efforts in the health centre of young people as some of those measures. The educational-psychological service in the municipalities is also so important. So there's a lot of measures where we're going to deploy resources. I support the Council of States that we need to work systematically with the plan we now have, and the measures that we have, and that we do not have ambitions to put too many measures in place at the same time. Priority should also be given to regional health enterprises. What we are talking about in particular today, suicide in mental health protection, as the interpellant points out, is also a particularly important task for those who run hospitals. This has a part to do with systems, procedures and competences, which they need to give priority to, so this is an interaction between us as politicians and healthcare providers in particular. As of today, I find it a little difficult to see the very concrete policy measures that we are going to put in, in addition to giving more money. We're going to do that, and we're going to do that. Then there are many parts of both mental health protection and mental health services that need increased capacity and skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2505	I want to thank you for many very good articles. There are many representatives who point to very important issues around this particular topic. The representative of Kjønaas Kjos pointed out that these are difficult assessments for health professionals and that it is not always as good to know. But then it is important to put in place measures around exactly those situations. Better cooperation with the primary care service is an important measure. The representative, Kjeseth, said that there are differences in Norway, and that also means that it's actually possible to prevent. People don't want to die, but they can't live. It's a big difference. My starting point is that it is possible to prevent. It may not be possible to prevent all suicides in psychiatry, but I think it is possible to prevent – at least to reduce the risk. Then one should be careful to be happy when it comes to such a theme, as the representative of Kjenaas Kjos said. But I want to thank the Council of State for what he said. I think it is very uplifting that he says what he says, that if possible from 2015, he will introduce a national monitoring tool as a requirement in the recording document. I agree that this is not a common mapping tool, but that there is a more wide-ranging screening system that can be used to fully target and customize prevention measures to prevent suicide. That's why I think this is a system that, when it's introduced, can actually be involved in saving lives. So I want to thank the Council of State for talking about the Storting today. I have also called for a more concrete action plan. But I agree that this is a very good start, and together with the other measures that are taking place in the health care system, there may be a good framework for this work. I have one question that I could imagine the Council of State said something about at the end. It applies to relatives and how they are met. It's hard to be related to those who commit suicide, but it's probably extra demanding when the suicide is committed in the health care system. A comment on that might be helpful.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2517	I would like to thank you for a good and important debate. It seems that there is a strong consensus that it is now important to follow up on the actions we have taken to ensure that they are implemented and, if appropriate, to introduce this new instrument from 2015 – which is a monitoring combined with a follow-up of actions. For example, internal proposals for measures to strengthen the prevention of suicide, which have emerged at the Sørlande hospital after they put this tool into use, are: improved systems for the better conduct of suicide risk assessment, better record keeping and documentation, increased continuity of treatment courses, communication between environmental personnel and handlers, time-in-hand mechanisms, crisis plans and coordination functions. Better cooperation and involvement of relatives is also important. These are measures that we recognise from among others. the patient safety campaign. But if a worker systematically works with this based on his own experience in his own organisation and then follows it up afterwards, I have great faith that it is a good tool to ensure continuity in this work. We have to recognise that one of the main challenges will be to be able to pay attention to this over time, and that as leaders we take responsibility for all the way to make sure that this is not a work that goes back but that gets reinforced attention. Therefore, in this area, as in many other areas, policies are not just about adopting policies; they are also about having them implemented and actually following them over time. What also emerged during the work at Sørlanden Hospital was that it was important to take the relatives seriously, involve them more to avoid suicide, but of course also have a great deal of openness towards the relatives afterwards – provide information, involve and meet the relatives with transparency and respect. It is important in healthcare, and it is particularly important in this situation. Although it may be difficult, it's important, because if the family feels that one is not open, and that the truth does not appear in the first meeting, it's very difficult to restore that confidence afterwards. Young people with experience in the field of mental health protection have now given their voice, both through the Child Ombudsman's report and through the report drawn up by the representative of Kjønaas Kjos. It is a voice that we must take seriously. It tells us that children and young people are not met well enough in childhood and youth psychiatry. I have therefore sent the Children’s Ombudsman’s report to all child and youth mental wards in the country and asked them to sit down and discuss concretely how they intend to follow it up, in the light of the clear voice of the young users of mental health protection. Many of them just say that they have tried to tell us that they have suicidal thoughts, without being taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2532	So the debate is on case No. 15 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2538	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2564	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Torstein Tvedt Solberg, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, by Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposals No. 6 and 7, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposal No. 8, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 9, by Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 10 and 11, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2589	First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 10 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government asks the Government to change Section 1, third paragraph, point (c) of the Guidelines for the Observation and Exclusion of Companies from State pension funds abroad investment universes to: (c) serious environmental and climate damage. Serious climate damage means, inter alia, emissions of CO2 equivalents per unit produced to an extent exceeding the average CO2 equivalent emissions in order to produce a final product with comparable application.’;» Proposal No. 11 reads: ‘The government asks the government to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad; [[SPU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2617	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to transfer the decision-making competence of SPU companies from the Ministry of Finance to the Ethics Council. The majority further asks the government to step up the Ethics Council in the form of increased resources.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2632	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2647	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an investigation into alternative ways of organising the fund in the context of the management notification of the State pension fund abroad next year, including the question of setting up its own monetary policy committee in the Bank of Norway.’ Proposal No. 7 reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad with a view to investing in enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors, with special emphasis on innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2669	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new and more thorough review of the possibility of developing ethical guidelines for sovereign debt, on the basis of which the transparency criteria of the issuer countries are based.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2684	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for a strategy to strengthen human rights in general with a particular focus on the rights of indigenous peoples in vulnerable sectors, anchored in the UN Declaration on the Rights of Native Peoples and the ILO Convention No. 169, and the employee rights enshrined in the core ILO Conventions.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2699	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to notify that the State pension fund abroad is withdrawing from coal mining companies which have the primary task of extracting coal.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the mandate of the expert group. The Group shall examine how one allows to withdraw the investment to the State pension fund abroad by other coal companies, including a standard for exclusion from investments based on the proportion of the company’s CO2 emissions from coal and how one can strengthen the ownership exercise and influence of the companies in which it remains an investor.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the mandate of the expert group. The Group shall explore how SPU can increase its investments in renewable energy, including renewable energy production and distribution infrastructure, and how this can be done in line with the Fund’s main objective of maximum returns in moderate risk.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e2777	During the debate, Mr Breivik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a health mosquito regime based on the model of the oil mosquito regime in the context of the 2015 State budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e3129	It is first votted over Section II of Section 25-1. The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e3144	It is then added over I, the rest of II and III even VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e3155	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e3165	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e3189	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a prohibition on special funds in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ban on purely speculative funds, as special funds, at European level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e4376	The Socialist Left has announced that they subsidiaryly support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e4387	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e4397	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e4418	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e4450	During the debate, Eirin Sund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to update the financial framework of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 and its priorities, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2015.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e4503	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-03.ana.ud148e4534	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
